b'BACKGROUND: Conjunctival filtering bleb scar formation is the main reason for the failure of glaucoma filtration surgery. Cytoglobin (Cygb) has been reported to play an important role in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, fibrosis and tissue damage repairing. This study aimed to investigate the role of Cygb in anti-scarring during excessive conjunctival wound healing after glaucoma filtration surgery.METHODS: Cygb was overexpressed in human tenon fibroblasts (hTFs) by transfecting hTFs with lentiviral particles encoding pLenti6.2-FLAG-Cygb. Changes in the mRNA and protein levels of fibronectin, collagen I, collagen III, TGF-\xc3\xa21, and HIF1\xc3\xa1 were determined by RT-PCR and western blotting respectively.RESULTS: After Cygb overexpression, hTFs displayed no significant changes in visual appearance and cell counts compared to controls. Whereas, Cygb overexpression significantly decreased the mRNA and protein expression levels of collagen I, collagen III and fibronectin compared with control (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01). There was also a statistically significant decrease in the mRNA and protein levels of TGF-\xc3\xa21 and HIF-1\xc3\xa1 in hTFs with overexpressed Cygb compared with control group (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05).CONCLUSION: Our study provided evidence that overexpression of Cygb decreased the expression levels of fibronectin, collagen I, collagen III, TGF-\xc3\xa21 and HIF-1\xc3\xa1 in hTFs. Therefore, therapies targeting Cygb expression in hTFs may pave a new way for clinicians to solve the problem of post-glaucoma surgery scarring. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (CYGB), discovered in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), is known to possess a radical scavenger function, but its pathophysiological roles remain unclear. Here, for the first time, we generated a new transgenic (TG) mouse line in which both Cygb and mCherry reporter gene expression were under the control of the native Cygb gene promoter. We demonstrated that the expression of Cygb-mCherry was related to endogenous Cygb in adult tissues by tracing mCherry fluorescence together with DNA, mRNA, and protein analyses. Administration of a single dose (50\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg) of thioacetamide (TAA) in Cygb-TG mice resulted in lower levels of alanine transaminase and oxidative stress than those in WT mice. After 10 weeks of TAA administration, Cygb-TG livers exhibited reduced neutrophil accumulation, cytokine expression and fibrosis but high levels of quiescent HSCs. Primary HSCs isolated from Cygb-TG mice (HSCCygb-TG) exhibited significantly decreased mRNA levels of \xc3\xa1-smooth muscle actin (\xc3\xa1SMA), collagen 1\xc3\xa11, and transforming growth factor \xc3\xa2-3 after 4 days in culture relative to WT cells. HSCsCygb-TG were resistant to H2O2-induced \xc3\xa1SMA expression. Thus, cell-specific overexpression of Cygb attenuates HSC activation and protects mice against TAA-induced liver fibrosis presumably by maintaining HSC quiescence. Cygb is a potential new target for antifibrotic approaches. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent studies suggested the globin family member cytoglobin (CYGB) as a potential tumor suppressor; however, the mechanism by which CYGB suppresses cancer is elusive. We investigated the role and mechanism of CYGB in suppressing breast cancer.METHODS: CYGB expression was examined by reverse transcription PCR, quantitative reverse transcription PCR and open database analysis. Promoter methylation was examined by methylation-specific PCR. Metabolomics and proteomics were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation, respectively. The effects and mechanisms of ectopic CYGB expression in breast cancer cells were assessed with molecular biological and cellular approaches in vitro and with a xenograft tumor model in nude mice.RESULTS: CYGB expression was downregulated in breast cancer tissues and cell lines, which was associated with promoter methylation. Ectopic CYGB expression suppressed proliferation, migration, invasion and induced apoptosis in breast cancer cell lines MCF7 (p53WT) and MB231 (p53mt) in vitro, and inhibited xenograft tumor growth in vivo. By proteomics and metabolomics analysis, glucose metabolism was found to be one of the main pathways suppressed by CYGB. The CYGB-expressing cells had lower ATP and compromised glycolysis. Additionally, CYGB suppressed key glucose metabolism factors including GLUT1 and HXK2 in p53-dependent and -independent manners. Restoration of GLUT1 or HXK2 expression attenuated CYGB-mediated proliferation suppression and apoptosis induction.CONCLUSIONS: CYGB is a potential tumor suppressor in breast cancer that is epigenetically suppressed. The results for the first time suggest that CYGB suppresses breast cancer through inhibiting glucose metabolism, which could be exploited for breast cancer prevention and therapy. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Schizopygopsis pylzovi, an endemic fish of the subfamily Schizothoracinae, is comparatively well adapted to dissolved oxygen fluctuations in the aqueous environments of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Here, we cloned the complete cDNA of cytoglobin 1 and 2 (Cygb1 and Cygb2) from S. pylzovi and then investigated transcriptional changes of both genes in the selected tissues in response to hypoxia. Both the two genes had the standard exon-intron structure of vertebrate Mb genes but lacked an exon at downstream of the H helix (HC11.2) as seen in mammals. We applied severe hypoxia (4\xc2\xa0h at PO2\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.6% saturation) and moderate hypoxia (72\xc2\xa0h at PO2\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8936.0% saturation) to adult S. pylzovi. Under severe hypoxia, the Cygb1 mRNA levels decreased significantly in the liver, kidney, and brain, but increased significantly in the heart, while the Cygb2 mRNA levels downregulated significantly in the muscle and liver. But, the transcriptional activity of Cygb1 in muscle and that of Cygb2 in the kidney, brain, and heart remained almost unchanged. Under moderate hypoxia, the transcriptional activities of both genes in muscle and brain were turned down quickly after onset hypoxia, while in the liver, kidney, and heart, the transcriptional activities of both genes showed a short-term upregulation in different time periods of hypoxia exposure. Our data suggest that both the Cygb1 and Cygb2 in S. pylzovi are hypoxia-induced genes, and the responses of the transcription regulation of Cygb1 and Cygb2 genes to hypoxia are tissue specific and also depend on the hypoxia regime, which are different from that of other fish species. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cancer stem cells (CSCs) account for tumor self-renewal and heterogeneity. Oxidative-nitrosative stress (ONS) is an independent etiologic factor throughout tumorigenesis. Emerging evidences indicated that the interaction of ONS with CSCs contributes to tumor progression and resistance to chemoradiotherapy. Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a member of human hexacoordinate hemoglobin family and acts as a dynamic mediator of redox homeostasis. We observed that Cygb is significantly deregulated in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissue and its decrease aggravates the growth of liver cancer stem cells (LCSCs) and increases the subpopulation of CD133(+) LCSCs. Cygb restoration inhibits HCC proliferation and LCSC growth, and decreases the subpopulation of CD133 (+) LCSCs in vitro. We found that Cygb absence promotes LCSC phenotypes and PI3\xe2\x80\x89K/AKT activation, whereas Cygb restoration inhibits LCSC phenotypes and PI3\xe2\x80\x89K/AKT activation. Furthermore, exogenous antioxidants can eliminate the inhibitory effect of Cygb to LCSC growth and phenotypes, as well as PI3\xe2\x80\x89K/AKT activation. Collectively, this study demonstrated that cytoglobin functions as a tumor suppressor and targets CSCs at an ONS-dependent manner. Thus, Cygb restoration could be a novel and promising therapeutic strategy against HCC with aberrant ROS/RNS accumulation. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b"Many current anti-cancer therapies rely on increasing the intracellular reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RONS) contents with the aim to induce irreparable damage, which subsequently results in tumor cell death. A novel tool in cancer therapy is the use of cold atmospheric plasma (CAP), which has been found to be very effective in the treatment of many different cancer cell types in vitro as well as in vivo, mainly through the vast generation of RONS. One of the key determinants of the cell's fate will be the interaction of RONS, generated by CAP, with important proteins, i.e. redox-regulatory proteins. One such protein is cytoglobin (CYGB), a recently discovered globin proposed to be involved in the protection of the cell against oxidative stress. In this study, the effect of plasma-produced RONS on CYGB was investigated through the treatment of CYGB with CAP for different treatment times. Spectroscopic analysis of CYGB showed that although chemical modifications occur, its secondary structure remains intact. Mass spectrometry experiments identified these modifications as oxidations of mainly sulfur-containing and aromatic amino acids. With longer treatment time, the treatment was also found to induce nitration of the heme. Furthermore, the two surface-exposed cysteine residues of CYGB were oxidized upon treatment, leading to the formation of intermolecular disulfide bridges, and potentially also intramolecular disulfide bridges. In addition, molecular dynamics and docking simulations confirmed, and further show, that the formation of an intramolecular disulfide bond, due to oxidative conditions, affects the CYGB 3D structure, thereby opening the access to the heme group, through gate functioning of His117. Altogether, the results obtained in this study (1) show that plasma-produced RONS can extensively oxidize proteins and (2) that the oxidation status of two redox-active cysteines lead to different conformations of CYGB. labels: #Cytoglobin"
b'Cytoglobin is a widely expressed heme protein that binds oxygen, carbon monoxide and nitric oxide. Recent examination of cytoglobin in the vasculature indicates that it contributes to nitric oxide availability, which is central to normal blood vessel function through regulation of smooth muscle cell tone and physiological response. Given the potential implications of cytoglobin in vascular function, we examined how cytoglobin might be uniquely regulated in vascular smooth muscle cells. Our data demonstrate that endothelial cells can increase the expression of cytoglobin in vascular smooth muscle cells, and the induction of cytoglobin is cell contact-dependent. We show that Notch signaling is necessary for endothelial cell-induced cytoglobin expression and Notch2 and Notch3 are sufficient to drive its expression in aortic smooth muscle cells. We further reveal that in cytoglobin-depleted smooth muscle cells there is increased cellular nitric oxide. These data demonstrate that, in addition to being the main producer of vascular nitric oxide, endothelial cells facilitate the ability of smooth muscle cells to metabolize nitric oxide through upregulation of cytoglobin. Our results reveal a novel mechanism by which Notch signaling contributes to vascular function through regulation of a gene that controls nitric oxide levels. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Lung metastasis is a major cause of mortality in patients with osteosarcoma (OS). A better understanding of the molecular mechanism of OS lung metastasis may facilitate development of new therapeutic strategies to prevent the metastasis. We have established high- and low-metastatic sublines (LM8-H and LM8-L, respectively) from Dunn OS cell line LM8 by using in vivo image-guided screening. Among the genes whose expression was significantly increased in LM8-H compared to LM8-L, the transcription factor lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) was identified as a factor that promotes LM8-H cell extravasation into the lungs. To identify downstream effectors of LEF1 that are involved in OS lung metastasis, 13 genes were selected based on LM8 microarray data and genomewide meta-analysis of a public database for OS patients. Among them, the cytoglobin (Cygb) gene was identified as a key effector in promoting OS extravasation into the lungs. CYGB overexpression increased the extravasation ability of LM8-L cells, whereas knocking out the Cygb gene in LM8-H cells reduced this ability. Our results showed a novel LEF1-CYGB axis in OS lung metastasis and may provide a new way of developing therapeutic strategies to prevent OS lung metastasis. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'AIM: The effects of diosmin (DS), pentoxifylline (PTX) and their combination on inflammatory response, oxidant/antioxidant balance, cytoglobin and cirrhotic reaction during bile duct ligation (BDL) were investigated and explored.MAIN METHODS: Fifty adult male Wistar albino rats were randomly allocated to five groups as following, sham: received vehicle only, BDL: subjected to common BDL without treatment, BDL plus DS: received 100\xe2\x80\xafmg/kg/day orally, BDL plus PTX: received 50\xe2\x80\xafmg/kg/day orally, BDL plus DS plus PTX: received DS and PTX in the same manner. The test period lasted 28\xe2\x80\xafdays, liver tissues and blood samples were collected to investigate biochemical markers (liver function biomarkers, oxidative stress markers, and antifibrotic markers), mRNA expression of Nrf-2, Keap-1, NF-\xc3\xaaB-p65 and p38-MAPK by real-time PCR, protein expression of cytoglobin and NF-\xc3\xaaB-p65 by western blot and iNOS and eNOS by immunohistochemistry. Histopathological study was performed to confirm our results.KEY FINDINGS: Chronic BDL induced a significant alteration in liver functions, oxidative stress and fibrotic markers. Furthermore, unfavorable effects on gene and protein expression were observed after BDL. Histopathological findings of this group showed parallel effects. DS, PTX and their combination treatment significantly ameliorated the disturbance that occurred due to BDL. Similar findings were observed in liver histopathology.SIGNIFICANCE: DS and PTX could mitigate liver cirrhosis through modulation of Keap-1/Nrf-2/GSH and NF-\xc3\xaaB-p65/p38-MAPK signaling pathways. In addition, we demonstrated that the hepatoprotective effect of DS and PTX is mediated by up-regulation of cytoglobin with inhibition of fibrotic reaction. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a member of the hemoglobin family and is thought to protect against cellular hypoxia and oxidative stress. These functions may be particularly important in inflammation-induced cancer, e.g., in patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). In this study, we investigated the development of inflammation and tumors in a murine model of inflammation-induced colorectal cancer using a combined treatment of azoxymethane and dextran sulfate sodium. A bioinformatics analysis of genome-wide expression data revealed increased colonic inflammation at the molecular level accompanied by enhanced macroscopic tumor development in Cygb-deficient mice. Moreover, the expression of the UC-associated gene neurexophilin and PC-esterase domain family member 4 (Nxpe4) depended on the presence of Cygb in the inflamed colonic mucosa. Compared to wild type mice, RT-qPCR confirmed a 14-fold (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.0003) decrease in Nxpe4 expression in the inflamed colonic mucosa from Cygb-deficient mice. An analysis of Cygb protein expression suggested that Cygb is expressed in fibroblast-like cells surrounding the colonic crypts. Histological examinations of early induced lesions suggested that the effect of Cygb is primarily at the level of tumor promotion. In conclusion, in this model, Cygb primarily seemed to inhibit the development of established microadenomas. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'A de novo designed intramolecular disulfide bond in myoglobin, resembling that in cytoglobin without structural evidence, was confirmed by an X-ray structure for the first time and was demonstrated to regulate both the structure and function of this protein, which fulfills the design of an artificial dehaloperoxidase, with an activity exceeding that of a native enzyme. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Evidence concerning an association between cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection and accelerated cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is inconclusive. Data were analyzed retrospectively from 297 consecutive heart transplants between 1.1.2002 and 31.12.2012. Patients ?18 years of age, survival, and follow-up ?1-year post-transplant and patients with early CAV were excluded. CMV-infection was diagnosed and monitored closely in the first year. CAV was diagnosed by coronary angiography via left heart catheterization, and results were categorized according to the International Society of Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT) scoring system. Risk factors for CAV were tested in a multivariable model. Median follow-up was 7.5 years (IQR: 5.6-10.3). CMV infection in the first year after transplantation occurred in 26% of patients (n = 78), CMV disease in 5% (n = 15). CAV ?1 ISHLT was detected in 36% (n = 108). Incidence of CAV >1 ISHLT and severity of CAV increased over time. No statistically significant association between CMV infection and disease within the first year and risk of CAV after 1-year post-HTx was detected in the univariate (P = 0.16) and multivariable [hazard ratio (HR), 1.36; confidence interval (CI), 0.89-2.07; P = 0.16] Cox regression. In the multivariable Cox regression, donor age (HR, 1.04; 95% CI, 1.02-1.06; P < 0.01) and acute cellular rejection (ACR) ?2R in the first year after HTx (HR, 1.77; 95% CI, 1.06-2.95; P = 0.03) were independent risk factors for CAV development. In our cohort, CMV infection and disease in the first year after transplantation did not significantly influence the risk of CAV in the long-term follow-up. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) develops in some patients who achieve sustained virological response (SVR) against hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection via anti-HCV therapy. To examine the pathogenesis of HCC development after HCV eradication, histopathological changes and clinical markers were evaluated in SVR patients.METHODS: Of 654 SVR patients treated with interferon (IFN)-based therapies, 34 patients who had undergone liver biopsy before initiating IFN therapy and after SVR achievement were enrolled: 11 patients with HCC and 23 patients without HCC (male/female, 9/2 and 8/15, respectively: age, 58 \xc2\xb1 5 and 54 \xc2\xb1 11 years, respectively). We compared the clinical and histopathological factors between the two groups. Immunohistochemistry for Cytoglobin (CYGB) and \xc3\xa1 smooth muscle actin (\xc3\xa1-SMA) was also performed.RESULTS: At baseline, prior to initiating the IFN-based therapy, there were significant differences between the SVR-non-HCC and SVR-HCC groups in the male gender, HBc antibody positivity, prothrombin activity, and histological inflammatory grade. Histopathological evaluation, using the new Inuyama classification system, revealed an improvement in the inflammatory grade, from 2.1 \xc2\xb1 0.6 to 1.0 \xc2\xb1 0.6 (p < 0.0001), whereas the fibrosis stage remained unchanged, from 2.3 \xc2\xb1 0.9 to 2.0 \xc2\xb1 1.2 (p = 0.2749), during the 97 \xc2\xb1 72-month observation period in the SVR-HCC group. Both the grade and stage scores were significantly improved in the SVR-non-HCC group. The area of collagen deposition, evaluated using Sirius red staining, showed a marked decrease, from 18.6 \xc2\xb1 7.6% to 7.7 \xc2\xb1 4.6%, in the SVR-non-HCC group, with no change in the SVR-HCC group. CYGB- and \xc3\xa1-SMA-positive hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), indicative of the HSC activated phenotype, remained in the fibrotic tissue of livers among patients in the SVR-HCC group.CONCLUSION: Stagnation of fibrosis regression is associated with a high risk for HCC after SVR. HSC activation may inhibit improvement in fibrosis after SVR and potentially contribute to hepatocarcinogenesis. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Hyperproliferative keratinocytes induced by trauma, hyperkeratosis and/or inflammation display molecular signatures similar to those of palmoplantar epidermis. Inherited gain-of-function mutations in RHBDF2 (encoding iRHOM2) are associated with a hyperproliferative palmoplantar keratoderma and squamous oesophageal cancer syndrome (termed TOC). In contrast, genetic ablation of rhbdf2 in mice leads to a thinning of the mammalian footpad, and reduces keratinocyte hyperproliferation and migration. Here, we report that iRHOM2 is a novel target gene of p63 and that both p63 and iRHOM2 differentially regulate cellular stress-associated signalling pathways in normal and hyperproliferative keratinocytes. We demonstrate that p63-iRHOM2 regulates cell survival and response to oxidative stress via modulation of SURVIVIN and Cytoglobin, respectively. Furthermore, the antioxidant compound Sulforaphane downregulates p63-iRHOM2 expression, leading to reduced proliferation, inflammation, survival and ROS production. These findings elucidate a novel p63-associated pathway that identifies iRHOM2 modulation as a potential therapeutic target to treat hyperproliferative skin disease and neoplasia. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'OBJECTIVE: To investigate cytoglobin levels in women with preeclampsia and women with uncomplicated pregnancies.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cross-sectional study including 26 pregnant women complicated with early-onset preeclampsia (EO-PE) and 26 pregnant women complicated with late-onset preeclampsia (LO-PE) were recruited for the study group. Twenty-seven healthy pregnant women selected randomly were included in the control group. The serum CYGB concentrations were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.RESULTS: Gestational age at delivery and mean birth weight were significantly lower in the preeclampsia groups than in the control group and were found to be the lowest in the EO-PE group (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Serum CYGB levels were significantly higher in the EO-PE and LO-PE groups as compared with the control group (9.99 (6.08) ng/ml (EOPE), 10.04 (7.04) ng/ml (LOPE) versus 2.84 (0.82) ng/ml), (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). However, a significant difference was not found between the EO-PE and LO-PE groups regarding CYGB levels (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.000).CONCLUSIONS: Serum CYGB levels were significantly higher in patients with EO-PE and LO-PE as compared to healthy pregnant women. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a member of the hexacoordinated globin protein family and is expressed ubiquitously in rat and human tissues. Although Cygb is reportedly upregulated under hypoxic conditions both in vivo and in vitro, suggesting a physiological function to protect cells under hypoxic/ischemic conditions by scavenging reactive oxygen species or by signal transduction, the mechanisms associated with this function have not been fully elucidated. Recent studies comparing Cygbs among several species suggest that mammalian Cygbs show a distinctly longer C-terminal domain potentially involved in unique physiological functions. In this study, we prepared human Cygb mutants (\xc3\x84C, \xc3\x84N, and \xc3\x84NC) with either one or both terminal domains truncated and investigated the enzymatic functions and structural features by spectroscopic methods. Evaluation of the superoxide-scavenging activity between Cygb variants showed that the \xc3\x84C and \xc3\x84NC mutants exhibited slightly higher activity involving superoxide scavenging as compared with wild-type Cygb. Subsequent experiments involving ligand titration, flash photolysis, and resonance Raman spectroscopic studies suggested that the truncation of the C- and N-terminal domains resulted in less effective to dissociation constants and binding rates for carbon monoxide, respectively. Furthermore, structural stability was assessed by guanidine hydrochloride and revealed that the C-terminal domain might play a vital role in improving structure, whereas the N-terminal domain did not exert a similar effect. These findings indicated that long terminal domains could be important not only in regulating enzymatic activity but also for structural stability, and that the domains might be relevant to other hypothesized physiological functions for Cygb. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Globin-mediated nitric oxide (NO) dioxygenase and nitrite reductase activities have been proposed to serve protective functions within the cell by scavenging or generating NO respectively. Cytoglobin has rapid NO dioxygenase activity, similar to other globins, however, the apparent rates of nitrite reductase activity have been reported as slow or negligible. Here we report that the activity of cytoglobin nitrite reductase activity is strongly dependent on the oxidation state of the two surface-exposed cysteine residues. The formation of an intramolecular disulfide bond between cysteines C38 and C83 enhances the nitrite reductase activity by 50-fold over that of the monomer with free sulfhydryl or 140-fold over that of the dimer with intermolecular disulfide bonds. The NO dioxygenase reactivity of cytoglobin is very rapid with or without disulfide bond, however, binding of the distal histidine following dissociation of the nitrate are affected by the presence or absence of the disulfide bond. The nitrite reductase activity reported here for the monomer with intramolecular disulfide is much higher than of those previously reported for other mammalian globins, suggesting a plausible role for this biochemistry in controlling NO homeostasis the cell under oxidative and ischemic conditions. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Nitrite ([Formula: see text]) causes vasodilation in mammals due to the formation of (nitric oxide) NO by endogenous [Formula: see text] reduction in the vascular wall. In this study, we determined if a similar mechanism operates in amphibians. Dual-wire myography of the iliac artery from Rhinella marina showed that applied [Formula: see text] caused a concentration-dependent vasodilation in normoxia (21% O2; EC50: 438 \xc2\xb5M). Hypoxia (0.63% O2) significantly increased the maximal dilation to [Formula: see text] by 5% ( P = 0.0398). The addition of oxyhemoglobin significantly increased the EC50 ( P = 0.0144; EC50: 2,236 \xc2\xb5M) but did not affect the maximal vasodilation. In contrast, partially deoxygenated hemoglobin (90% desaturation) did not affect the EC50 ( P = 0.1189) but significantly ( P = 0.0012) increased the maximal dilation to [Formula: see text] by 11%. The soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) completely abolished the response to [Formula: see text] ( P < 0.0001), and of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitors, only N5-(1-imino-3-butenyl)-l-ornithine (vinyl-l-NIO; P = 0.0028) significantly reduced the [Formula: see text] vasodilation. The xanthine oxidoreductase inhibitor allopurinol ( P = 0.927), the nitric oxide-scavenger 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,5-dihydro-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1H-imidazolyl-1-oxy-3-oxide (C-PTIO; P = 0.478), and disruption of the endothelium ( P = 0.094) did not affect the [Formula: see text] vasodilation. Incubation of iliac arteries with 1 mM [Formula: see text] did not a cause a change in the cGMP concentration (P = 0.407). Plasma [Formula: see text] was found to be 0.86\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.20 \xc2\xb5mol/l, while nitrate ([Formula: see text]) was 19.55\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.55 \xc2\xb5mol/l. Both cygb and ngb mRNAs were expressed in the iliac artery, and it is possible that these globins facilitate [Formula: see text] reduction in hypoxia. In addition, [Formula: see text] intracellular disproportionation processes could be important in the generation of NO from [Formula: see text]. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory vascular disease characterized by lipid accumulation and endothelial dysfunction. Cytoglobin has been shown to exert protective effects under oxidative stress conditions. The aim of this study was to determine whether recombinant human cytoglobin (rhCYGB) has protective effects against atherosclerosis. We intraperitoneally injected rhCYGB (0, 4, or 7 mg/kg BW) into the atherosclerotic rats daily for 60 days. The rhCYGB injections reduced low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in a dose-dependent manner, rhCYGB (7 mg/kg) significantly attenuated atherosclerosis. Blood proteins were separated by 2-dimensional electrophoresis and analyzed by mass spectrometry, and the majority of the proteins in question were participated in oxidative stress pathways and cardiovascular diseases. Human hepatocellular liver carcinoma cell line (HepG2) cells were treated with oleic acid (0.3 mmol/L), and Human acute monocytic leukemia cell line (THP-1) cells were incubated with oxidized LDL (ox-LDL; 50 \xc2\xb5g/mL) to induce foam cell (FC) formation in vitro. Treatment with different concentrations of rhCYGB (0, 5, 10, and 15 \xc3\xacg/mL) significantly decreased the lipid droplet levels in HepG2 cells and cholesterol ester levels in FCs. Moreover, rhCYGB significantly increased superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activity and decreased malondialdehyde and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase activity in cells. In addition, rhCYGB decreased NO and Reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels in FCs by functioning as an NO dioxygenase enzyme and ROS scavenger. Taken together, our findings indicate that rhCYGB prevented atherosclerosis by regulating lipid metabolism and oxidative stress. Our study provides insights into the possible usefulness of rhCYGB as an antiatherosclerosis agent. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Low temperature frequently influences growth, development, and even survival of aquatic animals. In the present study, physiological and molecular responses to low temperature in Litopenaeus vannamei were investigated. The cDNA sequences of two oxygen-carrying proteins, cytoglobin (Cygb) and neuroglobin (Ngb), were isolated. Protein structure analysis revealed that both proteins share a globin superfamily domain. Real-time PCR analysis indicated that Cygb and Ngb mRNA levels gradually increased during decrease in temperatures from 25 to 15\xc2\xb0C and then decreased at 10\xc2\xb0C in muscle, brain, stomach, and heart, except for a continuing increase in gills, whereas they showed a different expression trend in the hepatopancreas. Hemocyanin concentration gradually reduced as the temperature decreased. Moreover, the activities of respiratory metabolic enzymes including lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) were measured, and it was found that LDH activity gradually increased while SDH activity decreased after low-temperature treatment. Finally, damage to gill structure at low temperature was also observed, and this intensified with further decrease in temperature. Taken together, these results show that low temperature has an adverse influence in L. vannamei, which contributes to systematic understanding of the adaptation mechanisms of shrimp at low temperature. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b"Cytoglobin (CYGB) belongs to the mammalian globin family and is exclusively expressed in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in the liver. In addition to its gas-binding ability, CYGB is relevant to hepatic inflammation, fibrosis, and cancer because of its anti-oxidative properties; however, the regulation of CYGB gene expression remains unknown. Here, we sought to identify factors that induce CYGB expression in HSCs and to clarify the molecular mechanism involved. We used the human HSC cell line HHSteC and primary human HSCs isolated from intact human liver tissues. In HHSteC cells, treatment with a culture supplement solution that included fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) increased CYGB expression with concomitant and time-dependent \xc3\xa1-smooth muscle actin (\xc3\xa1SMA) down-regulation. We found that FGF2 is a key factor in inducing the alteration in both CYGB and \xc3\xa1SMA expression in HHSteCs and primary HSCs and that FGF2 triggered the rapid phosphorylation of both c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and c-JUN. Both the JNK inhibitor PS600125 and transfection of c-JUN-targeting siRNA abrogated FGF2-mediated CYGB induction, and conversely, c-JUN overexpression induced CYGB and reduced \xc3\xa1SMA expression. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses revealed that upon FGF2 stimulation, phospho-c-JUN bound to its consensus motif (5'-TGA(C/G)TCA), located -218 to -222 bases from the transcription initiation site in the CYGB promoter. Of note, in bile duct-ligated mice, FGF2 administration ameliorated liver fibrosis and significantly reduced HSC activation. In conclusion, FGF2 triggers CYGB gene expression and deactivation of myofibroblastic human HSCs, indicating that FGF2 has therapeutic potential for managing liver fibrosis. labels: #Cytoglobin"
b'Human cardiac stem/progenitor cells (hCPCs) may serve in regenerative medicine to repair the infarcted heart. However, this approach is severely limited by the poor survival of donor cells. Recent studies suggest that the mammalian globin cytoglobin (CYGB) regulates nitric oxide (NO) metabolism and cell death. In the present study, we found that CYGB is expressed in hCPCs. Through molecular approaches aimed at increasing or decreasing CYGB expression in hCPCs, we found that CYGB functions as a pro-survival factor in response to oxidative stress. This was associated with the upregulation of primary antioxidant systems such as peroxiredoxins-1, heme oxygenase-1, and anti-apoptotic factors, including BCL2, BCL-XL, and MCL1. Most significantly, we established that CYGB increased the expression of NF?B-dependent genes including iNOS, and that iNOS-dependent NO production was required for a feedforward loop that maintains CYGB expression. Our study delineates for the first time a role for a globin in regulating hCPC survival and establishes mechanistic insights in the function of CYGB. It provides a rationale for the exploration of the CYGB pathway as a molecular target that can be used to enhance the effectiveness of cardiac stem/progenitor cell therapy for ischemic heart disease. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'OBJECTIVE: The role of hemoglobin and myoglobin in the cardiovascular system is well established, yet other globins in this context are poorly characterized. Here, we examined the expression and function of cytoglobin (CYGB) during vascular injury.APPROACH AND RESULTS: We characterized CYGB content in intact vessels and primary vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cells and used 2 different vascular injury models to examine the functional significance of CYGB in vivo. We found that CYGB was strongly expressed in medial arterial VSM and human veins. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that CYGB was lost after VSM cell dedifferentiation. In the rat balloon angioplasty model, site-targeted delivery of adenovirus encoding shRNA specific for CYGB prevented its reexpression and decreased neointima formation. Similarly, 4 weeks after complete ligation of the left common carotid, Cygb knockout mice displayed little to no evidence of neointimal hyperplasia in contrast to their wild-type littermates. Mechanistic studies in the rat indicated that this was primarily associated with increased medial cell loss, terminal uridine nick-end labeling staining, and caspase-3 activation, all indicative of prolonged apoptosis. In vitro, CYGB could be reexpressed after VSM stimulation with cytokines and hypoxia and loss of CYGB sensitized human and rat aortic VSM cells to apoptosis. This was reversed after antioxidant treatment or NOS2 (nitric oxide synthase 2) inhibition.CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that CYGB is expressed in vessels primarily in differentiated medial VSM cells where it regulates neointima formation and inhibits apoptosis after injury. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure on Neuroglobin (Ngb) and Cytoglobin (Cygb) as well as oxidative stress gene expression in the cerebellum, hippocampus, hypothalamus and cortex. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: Control and two groups receiving 2 different daily BPA dosages, 5 or 25\xc2\xa0mg/kg from postnatal day 50 (PND50) through PND90 and they were euthanized at PND105. In the cortex, we found an increase in Ngb gene expression and also in superoxide dismutase 1 and Catalase (Cat). In the cerebellum, we found an increase in Ngb and Cat, in the hypothalamus, there was a decrease in Cygb and an increase in glutathione peroxidase and Cat and in hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha (Hif1\xc3\xa1) at the low dosage and a decrease in Hif1\xc3\xa1 at the high BPA dosage. Finally, in the hippocampus, we observed a decrease in Ngb and Cygb and an increase in Hif1\xc3\xa1. In summary, BPA promotes the modulation of both Ngb and Cygb, but such changes occur by different mechanisms depending on the exposure dose and anatomical area. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin is a heme-containing protein ubiquitous in mammalian tissues. Unlike the evolutionarily related proteins hemoglobin and myoglobin, cytoglobin shows a six-coordinated heme binding, with the heme iron coordinated by two histidine side chains. Cytoglobin is involved in cytoprotection pathways through yet undefined mechanisms, and it has recently been demonstrated that cytoglobin has redox signaling properties via nitric oxide (NO) and nitrite metabolism. The reduced, ferrous cytoglobin can bind oxygen and will react with NO in a dioxygenation reaction to form nitrate, which dampens NO signaling. When deoxygenated, cytoglobin can bind nitrite and reduce it to NO. This oxidoreductase activity could be catalytic if an effective reduction system exists to regenerate the reduced heme species. The nature of the physiological cytoglobin reducing system is unknown, although it has been proposed that ascorbate and cytochrome b5 could fulfill this role. Here we describe that physiological concentrations of cytochrome b5 and cytochrome b5 reductase can reduce human and fish cytoglobins at rates up to 250-fold higher than those reported for their known physiological substrates, hemoglobin and myoglobin, and up to 100-fold faster than 5 mM ascorbate. These data suggest that the cytochrome b5/cytochrome b5 reductase system is a viable reductant for cytoglobin in vivo, allowing for catalytic oxidoreductase activity. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Liver fibrosis, a common pathological process of chronic liver diseases, is the final stage of liver dysfunction that has severely deleterious impact on human health. Cytoglobin was first discovered in 2001 by proteomic analysis in rat stellate cells and was reported to play an important role in controlling tissue fibrosis. However, the mechanism by which cytoglobin inhibits or reverses the progression of fibrosis remains unclear. The present study examines the effect of recombinant human cytoblobin (rhCygb) in a rat model of liver fibrosis. Proteomic approaches were employed to identify differentially expressed proteins in the fibrosis model. Optimized conditions for two-dimensional gel electrophoresis were developed to provide improved protein detection and separation. A total of 43 spots were obtained and, through the use of matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, 30 differentially expressed proteins were identified. Gene ontology term annotation and KEGG pathway analysis allowed us to explore the function of the represented proteins. Based on these results, we provide a theory of the molecular mechanism related to rhCygb reversion of fibrosis and which will assist in the identification of biomarkers in patient serum to improve early diagnosis of liver fibrosis. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cell proliferation and migration are crucial in many physiological processes including development, cancer, tissue repair, and wound healing. Cell migration is regulated by several signaling molecules. Identification of genes related to cell migration is required to understand molecular mechanism of non-healing chronic wounds which is a major concern in clinics. In the current study, the role of cytoglobin (CYGB) gene in f?broblast cell migration and proliferation was described. L929 mouse fibroblast cells were transduced with lentiviral particles for CYGB and GFP, and analyzed for cell proliferation and migration ability. Fibroblast cells overexpressing CYGB displayed decreased cell proliferation, colony formation capacity, and cell migration. Phosphorylation levels of mTOR and two downstream effectors S6 and 4E-BP1 which take part in PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling declined in CYGB-overexpressing cells. Microarray analysis indicated that CYGB overexpression leads to downregulation of cell proliferation, migration, and tumor growth associated genes in L929 cell line. This study demonstrated the role of CYGB in fibroblast cell motility and proliferation. CYGB could be a promising candidate for further studies as a potential target for diseases related to cell migration such as cancer and chronic wound treatment. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (CYGB), a member of the globin family, is thought to protect cells from reactive oxygen and nitrogen species and deal with hypoxic conditions and oxidative stress. However, its molecular mechanisms of action are not clearly understood. Through immunoprecipitation combined with a two-dimensional electrophoresis-mass spectrometry assay, we identified a CYGB interactor: aldo-keto reductase family 7 member A2 (AKR7A2). The interaction was further confirmed using yeast two-hybrid and co-immunoprecipitation assays. Our results show that AKR7A2 physically interacts with CYGB. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'The cytoglobins of the Antarctic fish Chaenocephalus aceratus and Dissostichus mawsoni have many features in common with human cytoglobin. These cytoglobins are heme proteins in which the ferric and ferrous forms have a characteristic hexacoordination of the heme iron, i.e. axial ligation of two endogenous histidine residues, as confirmed by electron paramagnetic resonance, resonance Raman and optical absorption spectroscopy. The combined spectroscopic analysis revealed only small variations in the heme-pocket structure, in line with the small variations observed for the redox potential. Nevertheless, some striking differences were also discovered. Resonance Raman spectroscopy showed that the stabilization of an exogenous heme ligand, such as CO, occurs differently in human cytoglobin in comparison with Antarctic fish cytoglobins. Furthermore, while it has been extensively reported that human cytoglobin is essentially monomeric and can form an intramolecular disulfide bridge that can influence the ligand binding kinetics, 3D modeling of the Antarctic fish cytoglobins indicates that the cysteine residues are too far apart to form such an intramolecular bridge. Moreover, gel filtration and mass spectrometry reveal the occurrence of non-covalent multimers (up to pentamers) in the Antarctic fish cytoglobins that are formed at low concentrations. Stabilization of these oligomers by disulfide-bridge formation is possible, but not essential. If intermolecular disulfide bridges are formed, they influence the heme-pocket structure, as is shown by EPR measurements. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'The identity of the specific nitric oxide dioxygenase (NOD) that serves as the main in vivo regulator of O2-dependent NO degradation in smooth muscle remains elusive. Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a recently discovered globin expressed in fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells with unknown function. Cygb, coupled with a cellular reducing system, efficiently regulates the rate of NO consumption by metabolizing NO in an O2-dependent manner with decreased NO consumption in physiological hypoxia. Here we show that Cygb is a major regulator of NO degradation and cardiovascular tone. Knockout of Cygb greatly prolongs NO decay, increases vascular relaxation, and lowers blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance. We further demonstrate that downregulation of Cygb prevents angiotensin-mediated hypertension. Thus, Cygb has a critical role in the regulation of vascular tone and disease. We suggest that modulation of the expression and NOD activity of Cygb represents a strategy for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'This study clarified the role of Cygb, the fourth globin in mammals originally discovered in rat hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), in cholestatic liver disease. Bile duct ligation (BDL) augmented inflammatory reactions as revealed by increased infiltrating neutrophils, CD68+-macrophages, and chemokine expression in Cygb-/- mice. In these mice, impairment of bile canalicular indicated by the loss of CD10 expression, down-regulation of bile salt transporters, increased total bile acid, and massive apoptotic and necrotic hepatocytes occurred with the release of cytochrome c, activation of caspase 3, resulting in reduced animal survival compared to wild-type mice. In Cygb-/- mouse liver, all of NO metabolites and oxidative stress were increased. Treatment with NO inhibitor restrained all above phenotypes and restored CD10 expression in BDL Cygb-/- mice, while administration of NO donor aggravated liver damage in BDL-wild type mice to the same extent of BDL-Cygb-/- mice. N-acetylcysteine administration had a negligible effect in all groups. In mice of BDL for 1-3 weeks, expression of all fibrosis-related markers was significantly increased in Cygb-/- mice compared with wild-type mice. Thus, Cygb deficiency in HSCs enhances hepatocyte damage and inflammation in early phase and fibrosis development in late phase in mice subjected to BDL, presumably via altered NO metabolism. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Alcoholic liver disease (ALD) is an important worldwide public health issue with no satisfying treatment available since now. Here we explore the effects of recombinant human cytoglobin (rhCygb) on chronic alcohol-induced liver injury and the underlying mechanisms. In vivo studies showed that rhCygb was able to ameliorate alcohol-induced liver injury, significantly reversed increased serum index (ALT, AST, TG, TC and LDL-C) and decreased serum HDL-C. Histopathology observation of the liver of rats treated with rhCygb confirmed the biochemical data. Furthermore, rhCygb significantly inhibited Kupffer cells (KCs) proliferation and TNF-\xc3\xa1 expression in LPS-induced KCs. rhCygb also inhibited LPS-induced NADPH oxidase activity and ROS, NO and O2\xe2\x80\xa2- generation. These results collectively indicate that rhCygb exert the protective effect on chronic alcohol-induced liver injury through suppression of KC activation and oxidative stress. In view of its anti-oxidative stress and anti-inflammatory features, rhCygb might be a promising candidate for development as a therapeutic agent against ALD. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Liuwei Dihuang pill (LDP) was assessed for its effects on renal deficiency.90 STZ induced DN rats were divided into groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22) without treatment (STZ) and LDP treated (STZ-L) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a23), Zhenwu decoction treated (STZ-Z) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22), and valsartan treated (STZ-V) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a23) groups, with 16 normal control rats. Total urine protein (TP), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and serum creatinine (Cr) were measured. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations as well as expression/phosphorylation of SMAD3, SMAD2, and \xc3\xa1-SMA, TGF-\xc3\xa2, RI /II, P38, ERK, and NF-kB in renal tissues were determined. In vitro experiments analyzed the effect of enhanced TGF-\xc3\xa2 containing rat serums of the STZ groups on mesangial cells with and without transient transfection with a cytoglobin-containing plasmid.LDP treatment reduced the kidney coefficient, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and urine protein and prevented pathological changes. Expression of SOD and NOS in kidney tissue was increased but MDA expression reduced. LDP modulated multiple pathways, and its administration inhibited the phosphorylation of SMADS, ERK, p38, and the expression of NF-kB, \xc3\xa1-SMA, and TGF-\xc3\xa2 RI/II, and upregulated the expression of cytoglobin. In vitro studies revealed that overexpression of cytoglobin suppressed phosphorylation of Smad2, ERK, and p38 induced by TGF-\xc3\xa2 and expression of NF-kB, \xc3\xa1-SMA, and TGF-\xc3\xa2 RI.LDP prevented renal fibrosis and protected glomerular mesangial cells by upregulation of cytoglobin and suppression of multiple pathways involving TGF-\xc3\xa2/SMADS, MAPK, NF-kB signaling. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb), a recently discovered member of the vertebrate globin family, exhibits a traditional globin fold with a three-over-three \xc3\xa1-helical sandwich. The interaction between copper(?) ion (Cu2+) and Cygb has been investigated by UV-Vis, fluorescence, synchronous fluorescence and circular dichroism (CD) spectra. Results showed that the absorption intensity of Cygb at 280 nm increased and the intrinsic fluorescence of Cygb was quenched when Cu2+ was added. This fluorescence quenching of Cygb has been proven that it belongs to static quenching. The synchronous fluorescence spectra indicated that there were small changes about the microenvironment of tryptophan residues and tyrosine residues; furthermore, the binding site of Cu2+ is closer to tryptophan residues than tyrosine residues. No obvious change was observed about the secondary structure of Cygb with the addition of Cu2+ from the CD spectra. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'The side stream cigarette smoke (SSCS) is a contributing factor in the pathogenesis of cigarette smoking-induced toxicity. Hemoglobin (Hb), myoglobin (Mb), neuroglobin (Ngb), and cytoglobin (Cygb) are globins with different distributions and functions in the tissues and have similar actions by providing O2 (oxygen) for respiratory chain, detoxification of ROS and nitric oxide (NO), and protect tissues against irreversible lesions. We aimed to investigate the effects of SSCS exposure on gene and protein expression of Ngb, Cygb, and Mb in different tissue. The Ngb and Cygb gene and protein expression in the cerebral cortex increased after 1 week of rat exposure to SSCS. In hippocampus, the Ngb gene and protein expression increased after 1 week or more of exposure and no change was observed in Cygb gene and protein expression. In myocardium, Mb and Cygb gene expression increased at 1 and 4 weeks of exposure, while protein expression of both increased at 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks. In lung, observed an increase in Cygb gene and protein expression after 2, 3, and 4 weeks of exposure. The findings suggest that SSCS modulates Ngb, Cygb, and Mb in central and peripheral tissue \xc2\xa9 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol 32: 1252-1261, 2017. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b"BACKGROUND: Barrett's esophagus follows the classic step-wise progression of metaplasia-dysplasia-adenocarcinoma. While Barrett's esophagus is a leading known risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma, the pathogenesis of this disease sequence is poorly understood. Mitochondria are highly susceptible to mutations due to high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) coupled with low levels of DNA repair. The timing and levels of mitochondria instability and dysfunction across the Barrett's disease progression is under studied.METHODS: Using an in-vitro model representing the Barrett's esophagus disease sequence of normal squamous epithelium (HET1A), metaplasia (QH), dysplasia (Go), and esophageal adenocarcinoma (OE33), random mitochondrial mutations, deletions and surrogate markers of mitochondrial function were assessed. In-vivo and ex-vivo tissues were also assessed for instability profiles.RESULTS: Barrett's metaplastic cells demonstrated increased levels of ROS (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.005) and increased levels of random mitochondrial mutations (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) compared with all other stages of the Barrett's disease sequence in-vitro. Using patient in-vivo samples, Barrett's metaplasia tissue demonstrated significantly increased levels of random mitochondrial deletions (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.043) compared with esophageal adenocarcinoma tissue, along with increased expression of cytoglobin (CYGB) (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05), a gene linked to oxidative stress, compared with all other points across the disease sequence. Using ex-vivo Barrett's metaplastic and matched normal patient tissue explants, higher levels of cytochrome c (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.003), SMAC/Diablo (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.008) and four inflammatory cytokines (all p values <0.05) were secreted from Barrett's metaplastic tissue compared with matched normal squamous epithelium.CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated that increased mitochondrial instability and markers of cellular and mitochondrial stress are early events in the Barrett's disease sequence. labels: #Cytoglobin"
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) was identified in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and pericytes of all organs; however, the effects of Cygb on cellular functions remain unclear. Here, we report spontaneous and age-dependent malformations in multiple organs of Cygb(-/-) mice. Twenty-six percent of young Cygb(-/-) mice (<1 year old) showed heart hypertrophy, cystic disease in the kidney or ovary, loss of balance, liver fibrosis and lymphoma. Furthermore, 71.3% (82/115) of aged Cygb(-/-) mice (1-2 years old) exhibited abnormalities, such as heart hypertrophy and cancer development in multiple organs; by contrast, 5.8% (4/68) of aged wild-type (WT) mice had abnormalities (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.0001). Interestingly, serum and urine analysis demonstrated that the concentration of nitric oxide metabolites increased significantly in Cygb(-/-) mice, resulting in an imbalance in the oxidative stress and antioxidant defence system that was reversed by N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine treatment. A senescent phenotype and evidence of DNA damage were found in primary HSCs and the liver of aged Cygb(-/-) mice. Moreover, compared with HSC(+/+), HSC(-/-) showed high expression of Il-6 and chemokine mRNA when cocultured with mouse Hepa 1-6 cells. Thus, the absence of Cygb in pericytes provokes organ abnormalities, possibly via derangement of the nitric oxide and antioxidant defence system and through accelerated cellular senescence. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'This study aims to investigate whether the use of recombinant human cytoglobin (rhCygb) impact on hepatic fibrogenesis caused by CCl4. SD (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89150) rats were randomly divided into three groups of normal, CCl4 model and rhCygb groups. After model establishment, rats in rhCygb groups were administered daily with rhCygb (2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg, s.c.). Histological lesions were staged according to metavir. Serum parameters including ALT, AST, HA, LN, Col III and Col IV were determined. The liver proteins were separated by 2-DE and identified. As a result, the stage of hepatic damage and liver fibrosis in rhCygb groups were significantly milder than that in CCl4 model groups. Meanwhile, rhCygb dramatically reversed serum levels of ALT and AST, and also markedly decreased the liver fibrosis markers levels of LN, HA, Col III and Col IV. In 2-DE, 33 proteins among three groups with the same changing tendency in normal and rhCygb treated groups compared with CCl4 model group were identified. GO analysis showed that several identified proteins involved in oxidative stress pathway. The study provides new insights and data for administration of rhCygb reversing CCl4-induced liver fibrosis suggesting that rhCygb might be used in the treatment of liver fibrosis.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
b"Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a hexa-coordinated hemoprotein with yet to be defined physiological functions. The iron coordination and spin state of the Cygb heme group are sensitive to oxidation of two cysteine residues (Cys38/Cys83) and/or the binding of free fatty acids. However, the roles of redox vs lipid regulators of Cygb's structural rearrangements in the context of the protein peroxidase competence are not known. Searching for physiologically relevant lipid regulators of Cygb, here we report that anionic phospholipids, particularly phosphatidylinositolphosphates, affect structural organization of the protein and modulate its iron state and peroxidase activity both conjointly and/or independently of cysteine oxidation. Thus, different anionic lipids can operate in cysteine-dependent and cysteine-independent ways as inducers of the peroxidase activity. We establish that Cygb's peroxidase activity can be utilized for the catalysis of peroxidation of anionic phospholipids (including phosphatidylinositolphosphates) yielding mono-oxygenated molecular species. Combined with the computational simulations we propose a bipartite lipid binding model that rationalizes the modes of interactions with phospholipids, the effects on structural re-arrangements and the peroxidase activity of the hemoprotein.  labels: #Cytoglobin"
b'Cytoglobin (Cgb) is a member of hemoprotein family with roles in NO metabolism, fibrosis, and tumourigenesis. Similar to other hemoproteins, Cgb structure and functions are markedly influenced by distal key residues. The sixth ligand His(81) (E7) is crucial to exogenous ligand binding, heme pocket conformation, and physiological roles of this protein. However, the effects of other key residues on heme pocket and protein biological functions are not well known. In this work, a molecular dynamics (MD) simulation study of two single mutants in CO-ligated Cgb (L46FCgbCO and L46VCgbCO) and two double mutants (L46FH81QCgbCO and L46VH81QCgbCO) was conducted to explore the effects of the key distal residues Leu(46)(B10) and His(81)(E7) on Cgb structure and functions. Results indicated that the distal mutation of B10 and E7 affected CgbCO dynamic properties on loop region fluctuation, internal cavity rearrangement, and heme motion. The distal conformation change was reflected by the distal key residues Gln(62) (CD3) and Arg(84)(E10). The hydrogen bond between heme propionates with CD3 or E10 residues were evidently influenced by B10/E7 mutation. Furthermore, heme pocket rearrangement was also observed based on the distal pocket volume and occurrence rate of inner cavities. The mutual effects of B10 and E7 residues on protein conformational rearrangement and other dynamic features were expressed in current MD studies of CgbCO and its distal mutants, suggesting their crucial role in heme pocket stabilization, ligand binding, and Cgb biological functions. The mutation of distal B10 and E7 residues affects the dynamic features of carboxy cytoglobin.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Scavenging of nitric oxide (NO) often interferes with studies on NO signaling in cell-free preparations. We observed that formation of cGMP by NO-stimulated purified soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) was virtually abolished in the presence of cytosolic preparations of porcine coronary arteries, with the scavenging activity localized in the tunica media (smooth muscle layer). Electrochemical measurement of NO release from a donor compound and light absorbance spectroscopy showed that cytosolic preparations contained a reduced heme protein that scavenged NO. This protein, which reacted with anti-human hemoglobin antibodies, was efficiently removed from the preparations by haptoglobin affinity chromatography. The cleared cytosols showed only minor scavenging of NO according to electrochemical measurements and did not decrease cGMP formation by NO-stimulated sGC. In contrast, the column flow-through caused a nearly 2-fold increase of maximal sGC activity (from 33.1 \xc2\xb1 1.6 to 54.9 \xc2\xb1 2.2 \xc3\xacmol ? min(-1) ? mg(-1)). The proteins retained on the affinity column were identified as hemoglobin \xc3\xa1 and \xc3\xa2 subunits. The results indicate that hemoglobin, presumably derived from vasa vasorum erythrocytes, is present and scavenges NO in preparations of porcine coronary artery smooth muscle. Selective removal of hemoglobin-mediated scavenging unmasked stimulation of maximal NO-stimulated sGC activity by a soluble factor expressed in vascular tissue. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Thyroid hormones (THs) are essential and crucial for brain development, playing a role in growth and differentiation. Two globins named neuroglobin (Ngb) and cytoglobin (Cygb) are located in the brain, and each one has different distribution and function: They seem to have similar action by providing O(2) for respiratory chain, and detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) protecting tissues against irreversible lesions. We aimed to investigate the influence of thyroid state in Ngb and Cygb metabolism in different brain regions and evaluate their responses in cerebellum, hippocampus and cerebral cortex (hereafter called as cortex) after supraphysiological doses at different time points of TH administration. Experiments were carried out in rats, divided in eight experimental groups Control (C), thyroidectomy (Tx), and thyroidectomy treated with jugular intravenous injection (i.v). T3 (100 \xc3\xacl/100 g) injection and sacrificed after 30, 60, 120 min and 6, 12 and 24 h. In cortex, we found increase in Ngb gene and protein expression in different time points compared to C group, however Cygb gene and protein expression were decreased. In hippocampus, Ngb and Cygb protein expression increased 24 h after i.v. T3 injection in comparison to Tx. In cerebellum, we found increased Ngb gene expression after 120 min, 6, 12 and 24 h after T3 administration compared to Tx, and in contrast, protein expression was found to be significantly increased only 12 and 24 h compared to Tx. Ngb and Cygb expression in brain is influenced by thyroid hormone state both by its lack or excess. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'We characterized the peroxidase mechanism of recombinant rat brain cytoglobin (Cygb) challenged by hydrogen peroxide, tert-butylhydroperoxide and by cumene hydroperoxide. The peroxidase mechanism of Cygb is similar to that of myoglobin. Cygb challenged by hydrogen peroxide is converted to a Fe4+ oxoferryl \xc3\xb0 cation, which is converted to Fe4+ oxoferryl and tyrosyl radical detected by direct continuous wave-electron paramagnetic resonance and by 3,5-dibromo-4-nitrosobenzene sulfonate spin trapping. When organic peroxides are used as substrates at initial reaction times, and given an excess of peroxide present, the EPR signals of the corresponding peroxyl radicals precede those of the direct tyrosyl radical. This result is consistent with the use of peroxide as a reducing agent for the recycling of Cygb high-valence species. Furthermore, we found that the Cygb oxidation by peroxides leads to the formation of amyloid fibrils. This result suggests that Cygb possibly participates in the development of degenerative diseases; our findings also support the possible biological role of Cygb related to peroxidase activity.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent genomic information has revealed that neuroglobin and cytoglobin are the two principal lineages of vertebrate hemoglobins, with the latter encompassing the familiar myoglobin and \xc3\xa1-globin/\xc3\xa2-globin tetramer hemoglobin, and several minor groups. In contrast, very little is known about hemoglobins in echinoderms, a phylum of exclusively marine organisms closely related to vertebrates, beyond the presence of coelomic hemoglobins in sea cucumbers and brittle stars. We identified about 50 hemoglobins in sea urchin, starfish and sea cucumber genomes and transcriptomes, and used Bayesian inference to carry out a molecular phylogenetic analysis of their relationship to vertebrate sequences, specifically, to assess the hypothesis that the neuroglobin and cytoglobin lineages are also present in echinoderms.RESULTS: The genome of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus encodes several hemoglobins, including a unique chimeric 14-domain globin, 2 androglobin isoforms and a unique single androglobin domain protein. Other strongylocentrotid genomes appear to have similar repertoires of globin genes. We carried out molecular phylogenetic analyses of 52 hemoglobins identified in sea urchin, brittle star and sea cucumber genomes and transcriptomes, using different multiple sequence alignment methods coupled with Bayesian and maximum likelihood approaches. The results demonstrate that there are two major globin lineages in echinoderms, which are related to the vertebrate neuroglobin and cytoglobin lineages. Furthermore, the brittle star and sea cucumber coelomic hemoglobins appear to have evolved independently from the cytoglobin lineage, similar to the evolution of erythroid oxygen binding globins in cyclostomes and vertebrates.CONCLUSION: The presence of echinoderm globins related to the vertebrate neuroglobin and cytoglobin lineages suggests that the split between neuroglobins and cytoglobins occurred in the deuterostome ancestor shared by echinoderms and vertebrates. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'During physiological aerobic metabolism, the epidermis undergoes significant oxidative stress as a result of the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). To maintain a balanced oxidative state, cells have developed protective antioxidant systems, and preliminary studies suggest that the transcriptional factor p63 is involved in cellular oxidative defence. Supporting this hypothesis, the \xc3\x84Np63\xc3\xa1 isoform of p63 is expressed at high levels in the proliferative basal layer of the epidermis. Here we identify the CYGB gene as a novel transcriptional target of \xc3\x84Np63 that is involved in maintaining epidermal oxidative defence. The CYGB gene encodes cytoglobin, a member of the globin protein family, which facilitates the diffusion of oxygen through tissues and acts as a scavenger for nitric oxide or other ROS. By performing promoter activity assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation, reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR and western blotting analyses, we confirm the direct regulation of CYGB by \xc3\x84Np63\xc3\xa1. We also demonstrate that CYGB has a protective role in proliferating keratinocytes grown under normal conditions, as well as in cells treated with exogenous hydrogen peroxide. These results indicate that \xc3\x84Np63, through its target CYGB has an important role in the cellular antioxidant system and protects keratinocytes from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. The \xc3\x84Np63-CYGB axis is also present in lung and breast cancer cell lines, indicating that CYGB-mediated ROS-scavenging activity may also have a role in epithelial tumours. In human lung cancer data sets, the p63-CYGB interaction significantly predicts reduction of patient survival.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) have previously been used for targeted genome editing in various organisms including Xenopus laevis. However, because of genomic polyploidization, X. laevis usually possess homeologous genes (homeologs) with quite similar sequences that make the analysis of gene function difficult. In the present study, we show methodological examples of targeted gene modification of X. laevis homeologs. The X. laevis cytoglobin gene (cygb) consists of two homeologs (xlcygba and xlcygbb), and molecular phylogenetic analysis suggested that they have potentially different functions. Thus, there is a need to establish a method of homeolog-specific gene disruption to clarify gene functions in detail. Here, we show successful examples of homeolog-specific and simultaneous gene disruption for xlcygba and xlcygbb. We found that selective digestion can be performed with at least three mismatches in TALEN target sites in both homeologs. This report paves the way for the functional analyses of X. laevis homeologs, even those containing nearly identical sequences. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Oxygen (O2) is required for cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent drug metabolism. Cytoglobin (CYGB) is a unique globin expressed exclusively in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). However, its role in O2-dependent metabolism in neighboring hepatocytes remains unknown. This study provides evidence that CYGB in HSCs is involved in acetaminophen (N-acetyl-p-aminophenol; APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity. Serum alanine aminotransferase levels were higher in wild-type mice than in Cygb-null mice. Wild-type mice exhibited more severe hepatocyte necrosis around the central vein area compared with Cygb-null mice, thus indicating that CYGB deficiency protects against APAP-induced liver damage. Although no difference in the hepatic expression of CYP2E1, a key enzyme involved in APAP toxicity, was observed between wild-type and Cygb-null mice, the serum levels of the APAP metabolites cysteinyl-APAP and N-acetyl-cysteinyl-APAP were decreased in Cygb-null mice, suggesting reduced APAP metabolism in the livers of Cygb-null mice. In primary cultures, APAP-induced hepatocyte damage was increased by co-culturing with wild-type HSCs but not with Cygb-null HSCs. In addition, cell damage was markedly alleviated under low O2 condition (5% O2), suggesting the requirement of O2 for APAP toxicity. Carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury (CYP2E1-dependent), but not lipopolysaccharide/D-galactosamine-induced injury (CYP2E1-independent), was similarly alleviated in Cygb-null mice. Considering the function of CYGB as O2 carrier, these results strongly support the hypothesis that HSCs are involved in the CYP2E1-mediated xenobiotic activation by augmenting O2 supply to hepatocytes. In conclusion, CYGB in HSCs contributes to the CYP-mediated metabolism of xenobiotics in hepatocytes by supplying O2 for enzymatic oxidation.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'This study was conducted to clarify the role of cytoglobin (Cygb), a globin expressed in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), in the development of liver fibrosis and cancer in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Cygb expression was assessed in patients with NASH and hepatocellular carcinoma. Mouse NASH model was generated in Cygb-deficient (Cygb(-/-)) or wild-type (WT) mice by giving a choline-deficient amino acid-defined diet and, in some of them, macrophage deletion and N-acetyl cysteine treatment were used. Primary-cultured mouse HSCs isolated from WT (HSCs(Cygb-wild)) or Cygb(-/-) (HSCs(Cygb-null)) mice were characterized. As results, the expression of CYGB was reduced in patients with NASH and hepatocellular carcinoma. Choline-deficient amino acid treatment for 8 weeks induced prominent inflammation and fibrosis in Cygb(-/-) mice, which was inhibited by macrophage deletion. Surprisingly, at 32 weeks, despite no tumor formation in the WT mice, all Cygb(-/-) mice developed liver cancer, which was ameliorated by N-acetyl cysteine treatment. Altered expression of 31 genes involved in the metabolism of reactive oxygen species was notable in Cygb(-/-) mice. Both HSCs(Cygb-null) and Cygb siRNA-transfected-HSCs(Cygb-wild) exhibited the preactivation condition. Our findings provide important insights into the role that Cygb, expressed in HSCs during liver fibrosis, plays in cancer development with NASH. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Earlier kinetics studies on cytoglobin did not assign functional properties to specific structural forms. Here, we used defined monomeric and dimeric forms and cysteine mutants to show that an intramolecular disulfide bond (C38-C83) alters the dissociation rate constant of the intrinsic histidine (H81) (?1000 fold), thus controlling binding of extrinsic ligands. Through time-resolved spectra we have unequivocally assigned CO binding to hexa- and penta-coordinate forms and have made direct measurement of histidine rebinding following photolysis. We present a model that describes how the cysteine redox state of the monomer controls histidine dissociation rate constants and hence extrinsic ligand binding. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'he aim of this study was to obtain a cell-penetrating cytoglobin (Cygb), which combines the transmembrane function of cell-penetrating peptides TAT with the anti-aging and anti-fibrotic role of cytoglobin. The Cygb gene was complexed with TAT gene by overlapping PCR, inserted into the vector pET22b to construct the recombinant expression plasmid (pET22b-TAT-Cygb) and then transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The fusion protein TAT-Cygb, whose expression was induced by lactose, was purified by CM Sepharose Fast Flow Protocol and verified by Western blotting. The final TAT-Cygb had a molecular weight of 23 kDa with 95% purity, as shown by SDS-PAGE. As demonstrated by bioactivity experiments, TAT-Cygb exhibited a high specific peroxidase activity up to (422.30 \xc2\xb1 0.36) U/mg. Both TAT-Cygb and Cygb pretreatment group could protect Hacat cells against oxidation of H2O2, but only TAT-Cygb treatment group could remedy cells injuried by H2O2 (RGR = 98%), which was significantly different from Cygb treatment group (RGR = 79%). We successfully obtained the bioactive and cell-penetrating fusion protein TAT-Cygb that has the potential application in anti-aging, anti-fibrotic and anti-cancer. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a hexa-co-ordinate haem protein from the globin superfamily with a physiological function that is unclear. We have previously reported that the haem co-ordination is changed in the presence of lipids, potentially transforming the redox properties of the protein and hence the function of Cygb in vivo. Recent research suggests that the protein can exist in a number of states depending on the integrity and position of disulfide bonds. In the present study, we show that the monomeric protein with an internal disulfide bond between the two cysteine residues Cys38 and Cys83, interacts with lipids to induce a change in haem co-ordination. The dimeric protein with intermolecular disulfide bonds and monomeric protein without an intramolecular disulfide bond does not exhibit these changes in haem co-ordination. Furthermore, monomeric Cygb with an intramolecular disulfide bond has significantly different properties, oxidizing lipid membranes and binding ligands more rapidly as compared with the other forms of the protein. The redox state of these cysteine residues in vivo is therefore highly significant and may be a mechanism to modulate the biochemical properties of the haem under conditions of stress. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is an emerging tumor suppressor gene silenced by promoter hypermethylation in many human tumors. So far, the precise molecular mechanism underlying its tumor suppressive function remains poorly understood. Here, we identified Cygb as a genotoxic stress-responsive hemoprotein upregulated upon sensing cellular DNA damage. Our studies demonstrated that Cygb physically associates with and stabilizes p53, a key cellular DNA damage signaling factor. We provide evidence that Cygb extends the half-life of p53 by blocking its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. We show that, upon DNA damage, cells overexpressing Cygb displayed proliferation defect by rapid accumulation of p53 and its target gene p21, while Cygb knockdown cells failed to efficiently arrest in G1 phase in response to DNA insult. These results suggest a possible involvement of Cygb in mediating cellular response to DNA damage and thereby contributing in the maintenance of genomic integrity. Our study thus presents a novel insight into the mechanistic role of Cygb in tumor suppression.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'PURPOSE: To investigate the possible association of oxidative stress with keratoconus (KC), we estimated the changes in relative mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) content.METHODS: The study included 119 patients with KC and 208 controls matched for gender, ethnicity, and systemic disease status. We selected controls who were older than the patients since the mtDNA copy number tends to increase with age. The age mean (standard deviation) was 26.4(7.6) and 54.5(14.4) years for the patients and controls, respectively. The relative mtDNA copy number was estimated with the real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) method using ND1 as the mtDNA gene and human globulin (HGB; also known as the cytoglobin gene, CYGB) as the reference single-copy nuclear gene.RESULTS: The mean relative mtDNA content was significantly higher in patients with KC (1.20\xc2\xb10.45) than in the normal control subjects (1.04\xc2\xb10.36; p = 0.0004). Subjects with high mtDNA content (>1.259, i.e., greater than 75(th) percentile) were at an increased risk of the disease (odds ratio = 2.62, 95% confidence interval = 1.40 to 4.89; p =0.0025).CONCLUSIONS: Increased mtDNA content in patients with KC may indicate mitochondrial respiratory chain defects and thus mitochondrial-abnormality involvement. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'Recent evidence from humans and rats indicates that nitrite is a vasodilator under hypoxic conditions by reacting with metal-containing proteins to produce nitric oxide (NO). We tested the hypothesis that near-physiological concentrations of nitrite would produce vasodilation in a hypoxia- and concentration-dependent manner in the hind limb of sheep. Anesthetized sheep were instrumented to measure arterial blood pressure and femoral blood flows continuously in both hind limbs. Nitrite was infused into one femoral artery to raise the nitrite concentration in the femoral vein by 10 to 15-fold while the sheep breathed 50%, 14% or 12% oxygen in inspired air. In contrast to reports in humans and rats, the nitrite infusion had no measurable effect on mean femoral blood flows or vascular conductances, regardless of inspired O2 levels. In vitro experiments showed no significant difference in the release of NO from nitrite in sheep and human red blood cells. Further experiments demonstrated nitrite is converted to NO in rat artery homogenates faster than sheep arteries, and that this source of NO production is attenuated in the presence of a heme oxidizer. Finally, western blots indicate that concentrations of the heme-containing protein cytoglobin, but not myoglobin, are markedly lower in sheep arteries compared with rats. Overall, the results demonstrate that nitrite is not a physiological vasodilator in sheep. This is likely due to a lack of conversion of nitrite to NO within the vascular smooth muscle, perhaps due to deficient amounts of the heme-containing protein cytoglobin. labels: #Cytoglobin'
b'For sequences that are highly divergent, there is often insufficient information to infer accurate alignments, and phylogenetic uncertainty may be high. One way to address this issue is to make use of protein structural information, since structures generally diverge more slowly than sequences. In this work, we extend a recently developed stochastic model of pairwise structural evolution to multiple structures on a tree, analytically integrating over ancestral structures to permit efficient likelihood computations under the resulting joint sequence-structure model. We observe that the inclusion of structural information significantly reduces alignment and topology uncertainty, and reduces the number of topology and alignment errors in cases where the true trees and alignments are known. In some cases, the inclusion of structure results in changes to the consensus topology, indicating that structure may contain additional information beyond that which can be obtained from sequences. We use the model to investigate the order of divergence of cytoglobins, myoglobins, and hemoglobins and observe a stabilization of phylogenetic inference: although a sequence-based inference assigns significant posterior probability to several different topologies, the structural model strongly favors one of these over the others and is more robust to the choice of data set.  labels: #Cytoglobin'
