b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered heme protein in the vertebrate brain that can bind to oxygen molecules. Mammalian Ngb plays a crucial role in neuroprotection under conditions of oxidative stress. To investigate other potential functions of Ngb, we investigated the mouse retinal Ngb system following optic nerve injury. In the retina of control mice, Ngb immunoreactivity was limited to the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) layer, and this immunoreactivity rapidly decreased to less than 50% of the control level 5 days after optic nerve injury. On the basis of this decrease, we designed in\xc2\xa0vivo experiments with enhanced expression of Ngb using adult mouse retina. The enhanced expression of Ngb was achieved by injecting chimeric human Ngb protein, which included the cell membrane-penetrating module of fish Ngb. One-day pretreatment with chimeric Ngb increased immunoreactivity levels of Ngb two-fold in mouse RGCs and increased the number of surviving RGCs three-fold by 14 days after optic nerve injury compared with vehicle controls. Furthermore, in the mouse retinas showing enhanced Ngb expression, several regenerating central optic axons exhibited outgrowth and were found to pass through the nerve crush site 14 days after nerve injury. No such regenerating optic axons were observed in the control mouse optic nerve during the same time frame. The data obtained from in\xc2\xa0vivo experiments strongly indicate that mammalian Ngb has neuroprotective and neuroregenerative properties. labels: #Globins'
b"Dehaloperoxidase-hemoglobin (DHP), a multifunctional globin protein, not only functions as an oxygen carrier as typical globins such as myoglobin and hemoglobin, but also as a peroxidase, a mono- and dioxygenase, peroxygenase, and an oxidase. Kinetics of DHP binding to NO, CO, and O2were characterized for wild-type DHP A and B and the H55D and H55V DHP A mutants using stopped-flow methods. All three gaseous ligands bind to DHP significantly more weakly than sperm whale myoglobin (SWMb). Both CO and NO bind to DHP in a one-step process to form a stable six-coordinate complex. Multiple-step NO binding is not observed in DHP, which is similar to observations in SWMb, but in contrast with many heme sensor proteins. The weak affinity of DHP for O2is mainly due to a fast O2dissociation rate, in accordance with a longer\xce\xb5N-Fe distance between the heme iron and distal histidine in DHP than that in Mb, and an open-distal pocket that permits ligand escape. Binding affinities in DHP show the same 3-4 orders separation between the pairs NO/CO and CO/O2, consistent with the 'sliding scale rule' hypothesis. Strong gaseous ligand discrimination by DHP is very different from that observed in typical peroxidases, which show poor gaseous ligand selectivity, correlating with a neutral proximal imidazole ligand rather than an imidazolate. The present study provides useful insights into the rationale for DHP to function both as mono-oxygenase and oxidase, and is the first example of a globin peroxidase shown to follow the 'sliding scale rule' hypothesis in gaseous ligand discrimination. labels: #Globins"
b'OBJECTIVE: The role of hemoglobin and myoglobin in the cardiovascular system is well established, yet other globins in this context are poorly characterized. Here, we examined the expression and function of cytoglobin (CYGB) during vascular injury.APPROACH AND RESULTS: We characterized CYGB content in intact vessels and primary vascular smooth muscle (VSM) cells and used 2 different vascular injury models to examine the functional significance of CYGB in vivo. We found that CYGB was strongly expressed in medial arterial VSM and human veins. In vitro and in vivo studies indicated that CYGB was lost after VSM cell dedifferentiation. In the rat balloon angioplasty model, site-targeted delivery of adenovirus encoding shRNA specific for CYGB prevented its reexpression and decreased neointima formation. Similarly, 4 weeks after complete ligation of the left common carotid,Cygbknockout mice displayed little to no evidence of neointimal hyperplasia in contrast to their wild-type littermates. Mechanistic studies in the rat indicated that this was primarily associated with increased medial cell loss, terminal uridine nick-end labeling staining, and caspase-3 activation, all indicative of prolonged apoptosis. In vitro, CYGB could be reexpressed after VSM stimulation with cytokines and hypoxia and loss of CYGB sensitized human and rat aortic VSM cells to apoptosis. This was reversed after antioxidant treatment or NOS2 (nitric oxide synthase 2) inhibition.CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that CYGB is expressed in vessels primarily in differentiated medial VSM cells where it regulates neointima formation and inhibits apoptosis after injury. labels: #Globins'
b'Globin-coupled diguanylate cyclases contain globin, middle, and diguanylate cyclase domains that sense O2 to synthesize c-di-GMP and regulate bacterial motility, biofilm formation, and virulence. However, relatively few studies have extensively examined the roles of individual residues and domains of globin-coupled diguanylate cyclases, which can shed light on their signaling mechanisms and provide drug targets. Here, we report the critical residues of two globin-coupled diguanylate cyclases, EcGReg from Escherichia coli and BpeGReg from Bordetella pertussis, and show that their diguanylate cyclase activity requires an intact globin domain. In the distal heme pocket of the globin domain, residues Phe42, Tyr43, Ala68 (EcGReg)/Ser68 (BpeGReg), and Met69 are required to maintain full diguanylate cyclase activity. The highly conserved amino acids His223/His225 and Lys224/Lys226 in the middle domain of EcGReg/BpeGReg are essential to diguanylate cyclase activity. We also identified sixteen important residues (Leu300, Arg306, Asp333, Phe337, Lys338, Asn341, Asp342, Asp350, Leu353, Asp368, Arg372, Gly374, Gly375, Asp376, Glu377, and Phe378) in the active site and inhibitory site of the diguanylate cyclase domain of EcGReg. Moreover, BpeGReg266 (residues 1-266) and BpeGReg296 (residues 1-296), which only contain the globin and middle domains, can inhibit bacterial motility. Our findings suggest that the distal residues of the globin domain affect diguanylate cyclase activity and that BpeGReg may interact with other c-di-GMP-metabolizing proteins to form mixed signaling teams. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin is a heme-containing protein ubiquitous in mammalian tissues. Unlike the evolutionarily related proteins hemoglobin and myoglobin, cytoglobin shows a six-coordinated heme binding, with the heme iron coordinated by two histidine side chains. Cytoglobin is involved in cytoprotection pathways through yet undefined mechanisms, and it has recently been demonstrated that cytoglobin has redox signaling properties via nitric oxide (NO) and nitrite metabolism. The reduced, ferrous cytoglobin can bind oxygen and will react with NO in a dioxygenation reaction to form nitrate, which dampens NO signaling. When deoxygenated, cytoglobin can bind nitrite and reduce it to NO. This oxidoreductase activity could be catalytic if an effective reduction system exists to regenerate the reduced heme species. The nature of the physiological cytoglobin reducing system is unknown, although it has been proposed that ascorbate and cytochrome b5could fulfill this role. Here we describe that physiological concentrations of cytochrome b5and cytochrome b5reductase can reduce human and fish cytoglobins at rates up to 250-fold higher than those reported for their known physiological substrates, hemoglobin and myoglobin, and up to 100-fold faster than 5 mM ascorbate. These data suggest that the cytochrome b5/cytochrome b5reductase system is a viable reductant for cytoglobin in vivo, allowing for catalytic oxidoreductase activity. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently identified hexa-coordinated globin, expressed in the nervous system of humans. Its physiological role is still debated: one hypothesis is that Ngb serves as an electron transfer (ET) species, possibly by reducing cytochrome c and preventing it to initiate the apoptotic cascade. Here, we use the perturbed matrix method (PMM), a mixed quantum mechanics/molecular dynamics approach, to investigate the redox thermodynamics of two neuroglobins, namely the human Ngb and GLB-6 from invertebrate Caenorhabditis elegans. In particular, we calculate the reduction potential of the two globins, resulting in an excellent agreement with the experimental values, and we predict the reorganization energies, \xce\xbb, which have not been determined experimentally yet. The calculated \xce\xbb values match well those reported for known ET proteins and thereby support a potential involvement in vivo of the two globins in ET processes. labels: #Globins'
b'The genomes are folded in a complex three-dimensional (3D) structure. Some features of this organization are common for all eukaryotes, but little is known about its evolution. Here, we have studied the 3D organization and regulation of zebrafish globin gene domain and compared its organization and regulation with those of other vertebrate species. In birds and mammals, the \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes are segregated into separate clusters located on different chromosomes and organized into chromatin domains of different types, whereas in cold-blooded vertebrates, including Danio rerio, \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes are organized into common clusters. The major globin gene locus of Danio rerio is of particular interest as it is located in a genomic area that is syntenic in vertebrates and is controlled by a conserved enhancer. We have found that the major globin gene locus of Danio rerio is structurally and functionally segregated into two spatially distinct subloci harboring either adult or embryo-larval globin genes. These subloci demonstrate different organization at the level of chromatin domains and different modes of spatial organization, which appears to be due to selective interaction of the upstream enhancer with the sublocus harboring globin genes of the adult type. These data are discussed in terms of evolution of linear and 3D organization of gene clusters in vertebrates. labels: #Globins'
b"BACKGROUND: Neuroglobin (NGB) has been described as a neuroprotective agent in cerebral ischemia, hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) has shown an important role in modulating hypoxic and ischemic injury, and therefore they have the potential to impact outcomes after acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Thus, we investigated early changes in the concentrations of serum NGB and HIF-1\xce\xb1 after AIS and evaluated the relations of both NGB and HIF-1\xce\xb1 to stroke severity and prognosis.METHODS: We prospectively measured the serum concentrations of NGB and HIF-1\xce\xb1 in 40 patients with AIS at 24, 48, 72, and 96h after stroke. Correlation combined with infarct size and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of the patients was analyzed. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was used to appraise their value in predicting the 90-day outcome after AIS.RESULTS: Serum NGB concentrations increased and peaked at 72h after AIS, whereas serum concentrations of HIF-1\xce\xb1 increased for 48h. Peak serum NGB concentration correlated significantly with both infarct size (R2=0.484, p<0.001) and admission NIHSS score (R2=0.578, p<0.001), while serum HIF-1\xce\xb1 concentration was only correlated to a patient's infarct size (R2=0.394, p<0.001). ROC curve analysis suggested that the serum NGB concentration had a significantly better predictive power for poor outcome.CONCLUSIONS: NGB level increased in serum after AIS accompanied by increases in serum HIF-1\xce\xb1, and was suggested as a predictor of stroke severity and poor prognosis. labels: #Globins"
b'Hydrogen sulfide is a critical signaling molecule, but high concentrations cause cellular toxicity. A four-enzyme pathway in the mitochondrion detoxifies H2S by converting it to thiosulfate and sulfate. Recent studies have shown that globins like hemoglobin and myoglobin can also oxidize H2S to thiosulfate and hydropolysulfides. Neuroglobin, a globin enriched in the brain, was reported to bind H2S tightly and was postulated to play a role in modulating neuronal sensitivity to H2S in conditions such as stroke. However, the H2S reactivity of the coordinately saturated heme in neuroglobin is expecteda priorito be substantially lower than that of the 5-coordinate hemes present in myoglobin and hemoglobin. To resolve this discrepancy, we explored the role of the distal histidine residue in muting the reactivity of human neuroglobin toward H2S. Ferric neuroglobin is slowly reduced by H2S and catalyzes its inefficient oxidative conversion to thiosulfate. Mutation of the distal His64residue to alanine promotes rapid binding of H2S and its efficient conversion to oxidized products. X-ray absorption, EPR, and resonance Raman spectroscopy highlight the chemically different reaction options influenced by the distal histidine ligand. This study provides mechanistic insights into how the distal heme ligand in neuroglobin caps its reactivity toward H2S and identifies by cryo-mass spectrometry a range of sulfide oxidation products with 2-6 catenated sulfur atoms with or without oxygen insertion, which accumulate in the absence of the His64ligand. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Nocturnally active gymnotiform weakly electric fish generate electric signals for communication and navigation, which can be energetically taxing. These fish mainly inhabit the Amazon basin, where some species prefer well-oxygenated waters and others live in oxygen-poor, stagnant habitats. The latter species show morphological, physiological, and behavioral adaptations for hypoxia-tolerance. However, there have been no studies of hypoxia tolerance on the molecular level. Globins are classic respiratory proteins. They function principally in oxygen-binding and -delivery in various tissues and organs. Here, we investigate the molecular evolution of alpha and beta hemoglobins, myoglobin, and neuroglobin in 12 gymnotiforms compared with other teleost fish.RESULTS: The present study identified positively selected sites (PSS) on hemoglobin (Hb) and myoglobin (Mb) genes using different maximum likelihood (ML) methods; some PSS fall in structurally important protein regions. This evidence for the positive selection of globin genes suggests that the adaptive evolution of these genes has helped to enhance the capacity for oxygen storage and transport. Interestingly, a substitution of a Cys at a key site in the obligate air-breathing electric eel (Electrophorus electricus) is predicted to enhance oxygen storage of Mb and contribute to NO delivery during hypoxia. A parallel Cys substitution was also noted in an air-breathing African electric fish (Gymnarchus niloticus). Moreover, the expected pattern under normoxic conditions of high expression of myoglobin in heart and neuroglobin in the brain in two hypoxia-tolerant species suggests that the main effect of selection on these globin genes is on their sequence rather than their basal expression patterns.CONCLUSION: Results indicate a clear signature of positive selection in the globin genes of most hypoxia-tolerant gymnotiform fishes, which are obligate or facultative air breathers. These findings highlight the critical role of globin genes in hypoxia tolerance evolution of Gymnotiform electric fishes. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) has been reported to be upregulated by hypoxia and plays an anti-apoptotic function. Previous studies have reported that Ngb is expressed in human glioblastoma cells and up-regulated in hypoxic microregions of glioblastoma tumor xenografts. While, the clinical significance of Ngb and its function in human glioma keep unknown. Ngb expression was analyzed in 86 glioma tissues and 20 normal brain tissues. Results showed that Ngb was significantly overexpressed in glioma tissues compared to normal brain tissues. In addition, increased levels of Ngb also observed in glioma cell lines. Clinicopathological analysis verified that the positive expression of Ngb was associated with histological type and world health organization (WHO) grade of glioma. Moreover, Kaplan-Meier analysis found that Ngb overexpression led to a shorter survival. Multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that Ngb expression was an independent prognostic marker. Further experiments illustrated that Ngb knockdown significantly inhibited proliferation and facilitated apoptosis in U251 cells. In vivo experiments further confirmed that Ngb silencing notably prohibited the tumor growth of glioma in nude mice. While, Ngb overexpression prominently promoted proliferation and suppressed apoptosis in U87 cells. Taken together, this work support the first evidence that Ngb can be potentially used as a promising biomarker and target for novel treatment of human glioma. labels: #Globins'
b'Liuwei Dihuang pill (LDP) was assessed for its effects on renal deficiency.90 STZ induced DN rats were divided into groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22) without treatment (STZ) and LDP treated (STZ-L) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a23), Zhenwu decoction treated (STZ-Z) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22), and valsartan treated (STZ-V) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a23) groups, with 16 normal control rats. Total urine protein (TP), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and serum creatinine (Cr) were measured. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations as well as expression/phosphorylation of SMAD3, SMAD2, and \xce\xb1-SMA, TGF-\xce\xb2, RI /II, P38, ERK, and NF-kB in renal tissues were determined. In vitro experiments analyzed the effect of enhanced TGF-\xce\xb2 containing rat serums of the STZ groups on mesangial cells with and without transient transfection with a cytoglobin-containing plasmid.LDP treatment reduced the kidney coefficient, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and urine protein and prevented pathological changes. Expression of SOD and NOS in kidney tissue was increased but MDA expression reduced. LDP modulated multiple pathways, and its administration inhibited the phosphorylation of SMADS, ERK, p38, and the expression of NF-kB, \xce\xb1-SMA, and TGF-\xce\xb2 RI/II, and upregulated the expression of cytoglobin. In vitro studies revealed that overexpression of cytoglobin suppressed phosphorylation of Smad2, ERK, and p38 induced by TGF-\xce\xb2 and expression of NF-kB, \xce\xb1-SMA, and TGF-\xce\xb2 RI.LDP prevented renal fibrosis and protected glomerular mesangial cells by upregulation of cytoglobin and suppression of multiple pathways involving TGF-\xce\xb2/SMADS, MAPK, NF-kB signaling. labels: #Globins'
b'Objective:To investigate the role of neuroglobin (NGB) in oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation (OGD/R) induced mitochondrial depolarization and reactive oxygen species (ROS)production in a human neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y).Methods:SH-SY5Y cells were transfected with lentivirus to establish a stable cell line of NGB knockdown (KD). After treated with OGD/R, cells were collected at different time points to analyze NGB mRNA and protein levels. Furthermore, cells were stained with JC-1 and DCFH-DA to evaluate mitochondrial depolarization and ROS production by inverted fluorescence microscope. Also, to determine the neurotoxicity, we measured the lactate dehydrogenase(LDH)level in the cell culture medium.Results:After the treatment of OGD/R, the NGB mRNA and protein started to elevate and peak at 4 h and 8 h (2.04\xc2\xb10.35 fold, 1.69\xc2\xb10.18 fold). Compared with the vector group, NGB KD group had much more mitochondrial depolarization [JC-1 red/green (1.10\xc2\xb10.10) vs (1.46\xc2\xb10.11),P<0.05] and ROS production [DCFH-DA fluorescence (36.30\xc2\xb15.32) vs (16.26\xc2\xb12.97),P<0.05]. Furthermore, NGB KD groups had a higher level of LDH release [(63.42\xc2\xb16.14)%vs (49.65\xc2\xb15.09)%,P<0.05].Conclusions:NGB plays an important role in the homeostasis of mitochondria. Knockdown of NGB results in increased mitochondrial depolarization, ROS production and neurotoxicity under hypoxia circumstances. labels: #Globins'
b'A kind of self-fluorescent, biocompatible, and low-toxic Genipin crosslinked Globin-PEI nanoparticle (Gb-G-PEI NP) with high enzymolysis-stability and photo-stability was synthesized successfully. The properties of the Gb-G-PEI NP were characterized, including its particle size, surface zeta potential, morphology, paclitaxel (PTX) loading capacity and release. The Gb-G-PEI NPs as imaging probe were investigated by Confocal Laser Scanning Microscope (CLSM) in vitro and by fluorescence imaging system in vivo. Cell imaging results showed that the tumor cell line (HepG-2) had the faster cell uptake rate and metabolism rate than the normal cell line (L-O2), this difference showed its tumor selectivity. MTT assay revealed that the PTX-loaded Gb-G-PEI NPs showed almost the equal potence to tumor cell HepG-2 as the free PTX at the same PTX concentration, while a lower cytotoxicity to normal cell L-O2, suggesting its promising utilization as a drug delivery system. The imaging on mice demonstrated the possibility of the self-fluorescent Gb-G-PEI NPs as probe in vivo. So Gb-G-PEI NPs can be potentially utilized as both tracking marker and tumor cell selective drug delivery system in the biomaterial field. labels: #Globins'
b'Since its discovery, neuroglobin (Ngb), a neuron-specific oxygen binding hemoglobin, distinct from the classical myoglobin and blood hemoglobin, has attracted attention as an endogenous neuroprotectant. Recent reports suggest that Ngb protects neurons from brain stroke, ischemic stress-induced degeneration, and other brain disorders. Proteins with a specific role in neuroprotection are often associated with neurodegeneration, as well, depending on the cellular environment or specific cellular triggers that tilt the balance one way or the other. This investigation explored the potential role of Ngb in amyloid fibril-related neuronal disorder. Ngb was capable of amyloid formation in vitro at neutral pH and ambient temperature, in both apo and holo forms, albeit at a slower rate in the holo form, unlike other hemoglobins that exhibit such behavior exclusively in the apo states. Elevated temperature enhanced the rate of fibril formation significantly. The B-helix, which is known to play a major role in Ngb ligand binding kinetics, was found to be amyloidogenic with the Phe28B10amino acid side chain as the key inducer of fibrillation. The Ngb amyloid fibril was also significantly cytotoxic to neuroblastoma cell lines, compared to those obtained from reference hemoglobins. The Ngb fibril probably promoted toxicity by inducing channel formation in the cell membrane, as investigated here using synthetic lipid bilayer membranes and the propidium iodide uptake assay. These findings imply that Ngb plays a role in neurodegenerative disorders in vivo, for which there seems to be indirect evidence by association. Ngb thus presents a novel prospect for understanding amyloid-related brain disorders beyond the limited set of proteins currently investigated for such diseases. labels: #Globins'
b'Bacteria sense their environment to alter phenotypes, including biofilm formation, to survive changing conditions. Heme proteins play important roles in sensing the bacterial gaseous environment and controlling the switch between motile and sessile (biofilm) states. Globin coupled sensors (GCS), a family of heme proteins consisting of a globin domain linked by a central domain to an output domain, are often found with diguanylate cyclase output domains that synthesize c-di-GMP, a major regulator of biofilm formation. Characterization of diguanylate cyclase-containing GCS proteins from Bordetella pertussis and Pectobacterium carotovorum demonstrated that cyclase activity is controlled by ligand binding to the heme within the globin domain. Both O2binding to the heme within the globin domain and c-di-GMP binding to a product-binding inhibitory site (I-site) within the cyclase domain control oligomerization states of the enzymes. Changes in oligomerization state caused by c-di-GMP binding to the I-site also affect O2kinetics within the globin domain, suggesting that shifting the oligomer equilibrium leads to broad rearrangements throughout the protein. In addition, mutations within the I-site that eliminate product inhibition result in changes to the accessible oligomerization states and decreased catalytic activity. These studies provide insight into the mechanism by which ligand binding to the heme and I-site controls activity of GCS proteins and suggests a role for oligomerization-dependent activity in vivo. labels: #Globins'
b'Iron plays the central role in oxygen transport by erythrocytes as a constituent of heme and hemoglobin. The importance of iron and heme is also to be found in their regulatory roles during erythroblast maturation. The transcription factor Bach1 may be involved in their regulatory roles since it is deactivated by direct binding of heme. To address whether Bach1 is involved in the responses of erythroblasts to iron status, low iron conditions that induced severe iron deficiency in mice were established. Under iron deficiency, extensive gene expression changes and mitophagy disorder were induced during maturation of erythroblasts.Bach1-/-mice showed more severe iron deficiency anemia in the developmental phase of mice and a retarded recovery once iron was replenished when compared with wild-type mice. In the absence of Bach1, the expression of globin genes andHmox1(encoding heme oxygenase-1) was de-repressed in erythroblasts under iron deficiency, suggesting that Bach1 represses these genes in erythroblasts under iron deficiency to balance the levels of heme and globin. Moreover, an increase in genome-wide DNA methylation was observed in erythroblasts ofBach1-/-mice under iron deficiency. These findings reveal the principle role of iron as a regulator of gene expression in erythroblast maturation and suggest that the iron-heme-Bach1 axis is important for a proper adaptation of erythroblast to iron deficiency to avoid toxic aggregates of non-heme globin. labels: #Globins'
b'Oxidative stress, resulting from accumulation of reactive oxygen species, plays a critical role in astroglial cell death occurring in diverse neuropathological conditions. Numerous studies indicate that neuroglobin (Ngb) promotes neuron survival, but nothing is known regarding the action of Ngb in astroglial cell survival. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate the potential glioprotective effect of Ngb on hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in cultured mouse astrocytes. Incubation of cells with subnanomolar concentrations of Ngb (10-14-10-10\xc2\xa0M) was found to prevent both H2O2-evoked reduction in surviving cells number and accumulation of reactive oxygen species in a concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, Ngb treatment abolishes H2O2-induced increase in mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates. Concomitantly, Ngb treatment rescues H2O2-associated reduced expression of endogenous antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutases and catalase) and prevents the stimulation of the expression of pro-inflammatory genes (inducible nitric oxide synthase, cyclooxygenase-2, and interleukin (IL) IL-6 and IL-33). Moreover, Ngb blocks the stimulation of Bax (pro-apoptotic) and the inhibition of Bcl-2 (anti-apoptotic) gene expression induced by H2O2, which in turn abolishes caspase 3 activation. The protective effect of Ngb upon H2O2induced activation of caspase 3 activity and cell death can be accounted for by activation of protein kinase A and mitogen-activated protein kinase transduction cascade. Finally, we demonstrate that Ngb increases Akt phosphorylation and prevents H2O2-provoked inhibition of ERK and Akt phosphorylation. Taken together, these data demonstrate for the first time that Ngb is a glioprotective agent that prevents H2O2-induced oxidative stress and apoptotic astroglial cell death. Protection of astrocytes from oxidative insult may thus contribute to the neuroprotective effect of Ngb. labels: #Globins'
b"\xce\xb1-Thalassemia (\xce\xb1-thal) is among the world's most common single gene disorders, generally attributed to a selective advantage of heterozygotes against malaria mortality. A high frequency of -\xce\xb13.7deletion heterozygosity has been previously reported in Ashkenazi Jews despite lack of obvious malarial selection pressure in this population. Using haplotype and -\xce\xb13.7subtype analysis we analyzed a subset of -\xce\xb13.7homozygotes from various Israeli ethnic groups. We found a high frequency of the common Ia haplotype in Yemenite Jews and Arabs (54% and 13% respectively). Ashkenazi Jews exhibited a high frequency of IIIb alleles (67%) previously reported only in Aboriginal Australians and not found in other Israeli ethnicities. Both Yemenites and Ashkenazim carried the rare IIh alleles (18% and 15% respectively). These results may suggest multiple founder effects in Ashkenazi Jews as well a common founder for both Yemenite and Ashkenazi Jews. labels: #Globins"
b"Neuroglobin (NGB) is predominantly expressed in the brain and retina. Studies suggest that NGB exerts protective effects to neuronal cells and is implicated in reducing the severity of stroke and Alzheimer's disease. However, little is known about the mechanisms which regulate the cell type-specific expression of the gene. In this study, we hypothesized that distal regulatory elements (DREs) are involved in optimal expression of the NGB gene. By chromosome conformation capture we identified two novel DREs located -70 kb upstream and +100 kb downstream from the NGB gene. ENCODE database showed the presence of DNaseI hypersensitive and transcription factors binding sites in these regions. Further analyses using luciferase reporters and chromatin immunoprecipitation suggested that the -70 kb region upstream of the NGB gene contained a neuronal-specific enhancer and GATA transcription factor binding sites. Knockdown of GATA-2 caused NGB expression to drop dramatically, indicating GATA-2 as an essential transcription factor for the activation of NGB expression. The crucial role of the DRE in NGB expression activation was further confirmed by the drop in NGB level after CRISPR-mediated deletion of the DRE. Taken together, we show that the NGB gene is regulated by a cell type-specific loop formed between its promoter and the novel DRE. labels: #Globins"
b'After red blood cells lysis, hemoglobin is released to blood circulation. Hemoglobin is carried in blood by binding to haptoglobin. In normal individuals, no free hemoglobin is observed in the blood, because most of the hemoglobin is in the form of haptoglobin complex. In some diseases that are accompanied by hemolysis, the amount of released hemoglobin is higher than its complementary haptoglobin. As a result, free hemoglobin appears in the blood, which is a toxic compound for these patients and may cause renal failure, hypertensive response and risk of atherogenesis. Free hemoglobin has been determined to have peroxidase activity and considered a pseudoenzyme. In this study, the effect of methocarbamol on the peroxidase activity of human hemoglobin was investigated. Our results showed that the drug inhibited the pseudoenzyme by un-competitive inhibition. Both Kmand Vmaxdecreased by increasing the drug concentration. Kiand IC50values were determined as 6 and 10mM, respectively. Docking results demonstrated that methocarbamol did not attach to heme group directly. A hydrogen bond linked NH2of carbamate group of methocarbamol to the carboxyl group of Asp126 side chain. Two other hydrogen bonds could be also observed between hydroxyl group of the drug and Ser102 and Ser133 residues of the pseudoenzyme. labels: #Globins'
b'Globin coupled sensors (GCS) are O2-sensing proteins used by bacteria to monitor the surrounding gaseous environment. To investigate the biphasic O2dissociation kinetics observed for full-length GCS proteins, isolated globin domains from Pectobacterium carotovorum ssp. carotovorum (PccGlobin), and Bordetella pertussis (BpeGlobin), have been characterized. PccGlobin is found to be dimeric, while BpeGlobin is monomeric, indicating key differences in the globin domain dimer interface. Through characterization of wild type globin domains and globin variants with mutations at the dimer interface and within the distal pocket, dimerization of the globin domain is demonstrated to correlate with biphasic dissociation kinetics. Furthermore, a distal pocket tyrosine is identified as the primary hydrogen bond donor, while a secondary hydrogen bond donor within the distal heme pocket is involved in conformation(s) that lead to the second O2dissociation rate. These findings highlight the role of the globin dimer interface in controlling properties of both the heme pocket and full-length GCS proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'The in vivo fate of globin adducts with styrene 7,8-oxide (SO), an electrophilic metabolic intermediate of styrene, was studied in male Wistar rats dosed intraperitoneally with racemic SO, 100mg/kg b.w. Regioisomeric hydroxy(phenyl)ethyl (HPE) adducts at Cys, N-terminal Val, Lys and His in globin were determined and their elimination from blood was followed during 60days, corresponding to life span of rat erythrocytes. In the rat urine, N\xce\xb1-acetylated products of hydrolytic cleavage of the HPE adducts with Cys, Lys and His were determined. On the first day post-exposure, abundant N\xce\xb1-acetyl-HPE-Cys adducts (mercapturic acids) formed via direct conjugation of SO with hepatic glutathione were excreted rapidly, but then a much slower phase of elimination reflecting formation of N\xce\xb1-acetyl-HPE-Cys via cleavage of the adducted globin was observed. A two-phase elimination occurred also in urinary N\xce\xb1-acetyl-HPE adducts with His and Lys. While a decline by 75-85% during the first 7days post-exposure most likely reflected elimination of adducted albumin, the subsequent slow decline until day 60 corresponded to elimination kinetics of the adducted globin. Thus, the study not only provided original data on the fate of SO-globin adducts but also allowed to reveal general toxicokinetics properties of the urinary cleavage products as a novel type of chemical exposure biomarkers. labels: #Globins'
b'In this study, we investigated the effects of remote ischemic preconditioning on post resuscitation cerebral function in a rat model of cardiac arrest and resuscitation. The animals were randomized into six groups: 1) sham operation, 2) lateral ventricle injection and sham operation, 3) cardiac arrest induced by ventricular fibrillation, 4) lateral ventricle injection and cardiac arrest, 5) remote ischemic preconditioning initiated 90min before induction of ventricular fibrillation, and 6) lateral ventricle injection and remote ischemic preconditioning before cardiac arrest. Reagent of Lateral ventricle injection is neuroglobin antisense oligodeoxynucleotides which initiated 24h before sham operation, cardiac arrest or remote ischemic preconditioning. Remote ischemic preconditioning was induced by four cycles of 5min of limb ischemia, followed by 5min of reperfusion. Ventricular fibrillation was induced by current and lasted for 6min. Defibrillation was attempted after 6min of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The animals were then monitored for 2h and observed for an additionally maximum 70h. Post resuscitation cerebral function was evaluated by neurologic deficit score at 72h after return of spontaneous circulation. Results showed that remote ischemic preconditioning increased neurologic deficit scores. To investigate the neuroprotective effects of remote ischemic preconditioning, we observed neuronal injury at 48 and 72h after return of spontaneous circulation and found that remote ischemic preconditioning significantly decreased the occurrence of neuronal apoptosis and necrosis. To further comprehend mechanism of neuroprotection induced by remote ischemic preconditioning, we found expression of neuroglobin at 24h after return of spontaneous circulation was enhanced. Furthermore, administration of neuroglobin antisense oligodeoxynucleotides before induction of remote ischemic preconditioning showed that the level of neuroglobin was decreased then partly abrogated neuroprotection of remote ischemic preconditioning. These date suggested that neuroglobin involved in neuroprotective effect of remote ischemic preconditioning. In conclusion, remote ischemic preconditioning attenuated post resuscitation cerebral dysfunction and the neuroprotection was mediated partly by high level of neuroglobin in a rat model of cardiac arrest and resuscitation. labels: #Globins'
b'The side stream cigarette smoke (SSCS) is a contributing factor in the pathogenesis of cigarette smoking-induced toxicity. Hemoglobin (Hb), myoglobin (Mb), neuroglobin (Ngb), and cytoglobin (Cygb) are globins with different distributions and functions in the tissues and have similar actions by providing O2(oxygen) for respiratory chain, detoxification of ROS and nitric oxide (NO), and protect tissues against irreversible lesions. We aimed to investigate the effects of SSCS exposure on gene and protein expression of Ngb, Cygb, and Mb in different tissue. The Ngb and Cygb gene and protein expression in the cerebral cortex increased after 1 week of rat exposure to SSCS. In hippocampus, the Ngb gene and protein expression increased after 1 week or more of exposure and no change was observed in Cygb gene and protein expression. In myocardium, Mb and Cygb gene expression increased at 1 and 4 weeks of exposure, while protein expression of both increased at 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks. In lung, observed an increase in Cygb gene and protein expression after 2, 3, and 4 weeks of exposure. The findings suggest that SSCS modulates Ngb, Cygb, and Mb in central and peripheral tissue \xc2\xa9 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol 32: 1252-1261, 2017. labels: #Globins'
b"BACKGROUND: Barrett's esophagus follows the classic step-wise progression of metaplasia-dysplasia-adenocarcinoma. While Barrett's esophagus is a leading known risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma, the pathogenesis of this disease sequence is poorly understood. Mitochondria are highly susceptible to mutations due to high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) coupled with low levels of DNA repair. The timing and levels of mitochondria instability and dysfunction across the Barrett's disease progression is under studied.METHODS: Using an in-vitro model representing the Barrett's esophagus disease sequence of normal squamous epithelium (HET1A), metaplasia (QH), dysplasia (Go), and esophageal adenocarcinoma (OE33), random mitochondrial mutations, deletions and surrogate markers of mitochondrial function were assessed. In-vivo and ex-vivo tissues were also assessed for instability profiles.RESULTS: Barrett's metaplastic cells demonstrated increased levels of ROS (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.005) and increased levels of random mitochondrial mutations (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) compared with all other stages of the Barrett's disease sequence in-vitro. Using patient in-vivo samples, Barrett's metaplasia tissue demonstrated significantly increased levels of random mitochondrial deletions (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.043) compared with esophageal adenocarcinoma tissue, along with increased expression of cytoglobin (CYGB) (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05), a gene linked to oxidative stress, compared with all other points across the disease sequence. Using ex-vivo Barrett's metaplastic and matched normal patient tissue explants, higher levels of cytochrome c (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.003), SMAC/Diablo (p\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.008) and four inflammatory cytokines (all p values<0.05) were secreted from Barrett's metaplastic tissue compared with matched normal squamous epithelium.CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated that increased mitochondrial instability and markers of cellular and mitochondrial stress are early events in the Barrett's disease sequence. labels: #Globins"
b'The true function of neuroglobin (Ngb) and, particularly, human Ngb (NGB) has been under debate since its discovery 15 years ago. It has been expected to play a role in oxygen binding/supply, but a variety of other functions have been put forward, including NO dioxygenase activity. However, in vitro studies that could unravel these potential roles have been hampered by the lack of an Ngb-specific reductase. In this work, we used electrochemical measurements to investigate the role of an intermittent internal disulfide bridge in determining NO oxidation kinetics at physiological NO concentrations. The use of a polarized electrode to efficiently interconvert the ferric (Fe(3+)) and ferrous (Fe(2+)) forms of an immobilized NGB showed that the disulfide bridge both defines the kinetics of NO dioxygenase activity and regulates appearance of the free ferrous deoxy-NGB, which is the redox active form of the protein in contrast to oxy-NGB. Our studies further identified a role for the distal histidine, interacting with the hexacoordinated iron atom of the heme, in oxidation kinetics. These findings may be relevant in vivo, for example, in blocking apoptosis by reduction of ferric cytochrome c, and gentle tuning of NO concentration in the tissues. labels: #Globins'
b'Parkinson\xc2\xb4s disease (PD) is characterized by the presence of proteinaceous inclusions called Lewy bodies that are mainly composed of \xce\xb1-synuclein (\xce\xb1Syn). Elevated levels of oxidative or nitrative stresses have been implicated in \xce\xb1Syn related toxicity. Phosphorylation of \xce\xb1Syn on serine 129 (S129) modulates autophagic clearance of inclusions and is prominently found in Lewy bodies. The neighboring tyrosine residues Y125, Y133 and Y136 are phosphorylation and nitration sites. Using a yeast model of PD, we found that Y133 is required for protective S129 phosphorylation and for S129-independent proteasome clearance. \xce\xb1Syn can be nitrated and form stable covalent dimers originating from covalent crosslinking of two tyrosine residues. Nitrated tyrosine residues, but not di-tyrosine-crosslinked dimers, contributed to \xce\xb1Syn cytotoxicity and aggregation. Analysis of tyrosine residues involved in nitration and crosslinking revealed that the C-terminus, rather than the N-terminus of \xce\xb1Syn, is modified by nitration and di-tyrosine formation. The nitration level of wild-type \xce\xb1Syn was higher compared to that of A30P mutant that is non-toxic in yeast. A30P formed more dimers than wild-type \xce\xb1Syn, suggesting that dimer formation represents a cellular detoxification pathway in yeast. Deletion of the yeast flavohemoglobin gene YHB1 resulted in an increase of cellular nitrative stress and cytotoxicity leading to enhanced aggregation of A30P \xce\xb1Syn. Yhb1 protected yeast from A30P-induced mitochondrial fragmentation and peroxynitrite-induced nitrative stress. Strikingly, overexpression of neuroglobin, the human homolog of YHB1, protected against \xce\xb1Syn inclusion formation in mammalian cells. In total, our data suggest that C-terminal Y133 plays a major role in \xce\xb1Syn aggregate clearance by supporting the protective S129 phosphorylation for autophagy and by promoting proteasome clearance. C-terminal tyrosine nitration increases pathogenicity and can only be partially detoxified by \xce\xb1Syn di-tyrosine dimers. Our findings uncover a complex interplay between S129 phosphorylation and C-terminal tyrosine modifications of \xce\xb1Syn that likely participates in PD pathology. labels: #Globins'
b'Although paclitaxel (Taxol) is an active chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of breast cancer, not all breast tumors are sensitive to this drug. In particular, there is a wide agreement on the low sensitivity of estrogen receptor (ER) \xce\xb1-positive breast cancer to paclitaxel treatment. However, the ER\xce\xb1-based insensitivity to paclitaxel is still elusive. Here, the effect of the E2/ER\xce\xb1-dependent upregulation of neuroglobin (NGB), an antiapoptotic globin, on the reduced sensitivity of breast cancer cells to paclitaxel-induced apoptosis has been evaluated in ER\xce\xb1-containing MCF-7 cells. The E2 pretreatment enhances the ER\xce\xb1 activity and significantly impairs paclitaxel-induced apoptosis as evaluated by Annexin V assay and PARP-1 cleavage. NGB displays a pivotal role in the E2/ER\xce\xb1-induced antiapoptotic pathway to abrogate paclitaxel-induced cell death in stable NGB-silenced MCF-7 cell clones. Moreover, in the absence of the active ER\xce\xb1, paclitaxel significantly reduces the NGB cell content. In conclusion, these results highlight the involvement of ER\xce\xb1 activation and of E2/ER\xce\xb1-dependent NGB upregulation in the insensitivity of MCF-7 to paclitaxel. These novel findings could have important implications in the development of targeted therapeutics for overcoming paclitaxel insensitivity in ER\xce\xb1-positive human breast cancer. \xc2\xa9 2016 IUBMB Life, 68(8):645-651, 2016. labels: #Globins'
b'Erythroid cell commitment and differentiation proceed through activation of a lineage-restricted transcriptional network orchestrated by a group of well characterized genes. However, the minimal set of factors necessary for instructing red blood cell (RBC) development remains undefined. We employed a screen for transcription factors allowing direct lineage reprograming from fibroblasts to induced erythroid progenitors/precursors (iEPs). We show that Gata1, Tal1, Lmo2, and c-Myc (GTLM) can rapidly convert murine and human fibroblasts directly to iEPs. The transcriptional signature of murine iEPs resembled mainly that of primitive erythroid progenitors in the yolk sac, whereas addition of Klf1 or Myb to the GTLM cocktail resulted in iEPs with a more adult-type globin expression pattern. Our results demonstrate that direct lineage conversion is a suitable platform for defining and studying the core factors inducing the different waves of erythroid development. labels: #Globins'
b'Tibolone, a synthetic steroid used for the prevention of osteoporosis and the treatment of climacteric symptoms in post-menopausal women, may exert tissue selective estrogenic actions acting on estrogen receptors (ERs). We previously showed that tibolone protects human T98G astroglial cells against glucose deprivation (GD). In this study we have explored whether the protective effect of tibolone on these cells is mediated by ERs. Experimental studies showed that both ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 were involved in the protection by tibolone on GD cells, being ER\xce\xb2 preferentially involved on these actions over ER\xce\xb1. Tibolone increased viability of GD cells by a mechanism fully blocked by an ER\xce\xb2 antagonist and partially blocked by an ER\xce\xb1 antagonist. Furthermore, ER\xce\xb2 inhibition prevented the effect of tibolone on nuclear fragmentation, ROS and mitochondrial membrane potential in GD cells. The protective effect of tibolone was mediated by neuroglobin. Tibolone upregulated neuroglobin in T98G cells and primary mouse astrocytes by a mechanism involving ER\xce\xb2 and neuroglobin silencing prevented the protective action of tibolone on GD cells. In summary, tibolone protects T98G cells by a mechanism involving ER\xce\xb2 and the upregulation of neuroglobin. labels: #Globins'
b'Recombinant ferrochelatase (BsFECH) from Bacillus subtilis expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) was found by UV-visible spectroscopy to bind the model substrate tetraphenylporphyrin-sulfonate, TPPS, with Ka=3.8 10(5)mol/L in aqueous phosphate buffer pH 5.7 at 30\xc2\xb0C, and to interact with metmyoglobin with Ka=1.07\xc2\xb10.13 10(5)mol/L at 30\xc2\xb0C. The iron/zinc exchange in myoglobin occurring during maturation of Parma hams seems to depend on such substrate binding to BsFECH and was facilitated by limited pepsin proteolysis of myoglobin to open a reaction channel for metal exchange still with BsFECH associated to globin. BsFECH increased rate of zinc insertion in TPPS significantly and showed saturation kinetics with an apparent binding constant of Zn(II) to the [enzyme-TPPS] complex of 1.3 10(4)mol/L and a first-order rate constant of 6.6 10(-1)s(-1) for dissociation of the tertiary complex, a similar pattern was found for zinc/iron transmetallation in myoglobin. labels: #Globins'
b'The over-expression of human neuroglobin (NGB), a heme-protein preferentially expressed in the brain, displays anti-apoptotic effects against hypoxic/ischemic and oxidative stresses enhancing neuron survival. As hypoxic and oxidative stress injury frequently occurs in fast proliferating neoplastic tissues, here, the effect of these stressors on the level, localization, and anti-apoptotic function of NGB in wild type and NGB-stable-silenced MCF-7 breast cancer cells has been assessed. The well-known endogenous NGB inducer 17\xce\xb2-estradiol (E2) has been used as positive control. The median pO2 present in tumor microenvironment of breast cancer patients (i.e., 2% O2) does not affect the NGB level in breast cancer cells, whereas hydrogen peroxide and lead(IV) acetate, which increase intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) level, enhance the NGB levels outside the mitochondria and still activate apoptosis. However, E2-induced NGB up-regulation in mitochondria completely reverse lead(IV) acetate-induced PARP cleavage. These results indicate that the NGB level could represent a marker of oxidative-stress in MCF-7 breast cancer cells; however, the NGB ability to respond to injuring stimuli by preventing apoptosis requires its re-allocation into the mitochondria. As a whole, present data might lead to a new direction in understanding NGB function in cancer opening new avenues for the therapeutic intervention. labels: #Globins'
b'The compound \xce\xb2\xc2\xb0-thalassemia/Hb E hemoglobinopathy is characterized by an unusually large range of presentation from essentially asymptomatic to a severe transfusion dependent state. While a number of factors are known that moderate presentation, these factors do not account for the full spectrum of presentation. Mitochondria are subcellular organelles that are pivotal in a number of cellular processes including oxidative phosphorylation and apoptosis. A mitochondrial protein enriched proteome was determined and validated from erythroblasts from normal controls and \xce\xb2\xc2\xb0-thalassemia/Hb E patients of different severities. Mitochondria were evaluated through the use of mitotracker staining, analysis of relative mitochondrial genome number and evaluation of mitochondrial gene expression in addition to assay of overall cellular redox status through the use of alamarBlue assays. Fifty differentially regulated mitochondrial proteins were identified. Mitotracker staining revealed significant differences in staining between normal control erythroblasts and those from \xce\xb2\xc2\xb0-thalassemia/Hb E patients. Differences in relative mitochondria number and gene expression were seen primarily in day 10 cells. Significant differences were seen in redox status as evaluated by alamarBlue staining in newly isolated CD34+ cells. Mitochondria mediate oxidative phosphorylation and apoptosis, both of which are known to be dysregulated in differentiating erythrocytes from \xce\xb2\xc2\xb0-thalassemia/Hb E patients. The evidence presented here suggest that there are inherent differences in these cells as early as the erythroid progenitor cell stage, and that maximum deficit is seen coincident with high levels of globin gene expression. labels: #Globins'
b'This work demonstrates the feasibility of making sensitive nanometer distance measurements between Fe(III) heme centers and nitroxide spin labels in proteins using the double electron-electron resonance (DEER) pulsed EPR technique at 94 GHz. Techniques to measure accurately long distances in many classes of heme proteins using DEER are currently strongly limited by sensitivity. In this paper we demonstrate sensitivity gains of more than 30 times compared with previous lower frequency (X-band) DEER measurements on both human neuroglobin and sperm whale myoglobin. This is achieved by taking advantage of recent instrumental advances, employing wideband excitation techniques based on composite pulses and exploiting more favorable relaxation properties of low-spin Fe(III) in high magnetic fields. This gain in sensitivity potentially allows the DEER technique to be routinely used as a sensitive probe of structure and conformation in the large number of heme and many other metalloproteins. labels: #Globins'
b'This study aims to investigate whether the use of recombinant human cytoglobin (rhCygb) impact on hepatic fibrogenesis caused by CCl4. SD (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89150) rats were randomly divided into three groups of normal, CCl4 model and rhCygb groups. After model establishment, rats in rhCygb groups were administered daily with rhCygb (2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg, s.c.). Histological lesions were staged according to metavir. Serum parameters including ALT, AST, HA, LN, Col III and Col IV were determined. The liver proteins were separated by 2-DE and identified. As a result, the stage of hepatic damage and liver fibrosis in rhCygb groups were significantly milder than that in CCl4 model groups. Meanwhile, rhCygb dramatically reversed serum levels of ALT and AST, and also markedly decreased the liver fibrosis markers levels of LN, HA, Col III and Col IV. In 2-DE, 33 proteins among three groups with the same changing tendency in normal and rhCygb treated groups compared with CCl4 model group were identified. GO analysis showed that several identified proteins involved in oxidative stress pathway. The study provides new insights and data for administration of rhCygb reversing CCl4-induced liver fibrosis suggesting that rhCygb might be used in the treatment of liver fibrosis. labels: #Globins'
b'Almost all insects are equipped with a tracheal system, which appears to be sufficient for O2 supply even in phases of high metabolic activity. Therefore, with the exception of a few species dwelling in hypoxic habitats, specialized respiratory proteins had been considered unnecessary in insects. The recent discovery and apparently universal presence of intracellular hemoglobins in insects has remained functionally unexplained. The fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster harbors three different globin genes (referred to as glob1-3). Glob1 is the most highly expressed globin and essentially occurs in the tracheal system and the fat body. To better understand the functions of insect globins, the levels of glob1 were modulated in Drosophila larvae and adults by RNAi-mediated knockdown and transgenic over-expression. No effects on the development were observed in flies with manipulated glob1 levels. However, the knockdown of glob1 led to a significantly reduced survival rate of adult flies under hypoxia (5% and 1.5% O2). Surprisingly, the glob1 knockdown flies also displayed increased resistance towards the reactive oxygen species-forming agent paraquat, which may be explained by a restricted availability of O2 resulting in decreased formation of harmful O2(-). In summary, our results suggest an important functional role of glob1 in O2 homeostasis, possibly by enhancing O2 supply. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) has been demonstrated to be neuroprotective against stroke and neurodegenerative diseases, thus upregulating Ngb might be a novel approach for neuroprotection. In this study we aimed to establish cell-based Ngb reporter systems for screening neuroprotective compounds targeting Ngb upregulation. We developed both mouse and human stable Ngb reporter systems containing a luciferase reporter gene directed by mouse and human Ngb promoter, respectively. To validate these reporter systems, we used them to screen a pool of natural plant compounds. RT-PCR was used to verify the Ngb-upregulating effects of selected compounds, and neurotoxicity assay was used to test their neuroprotection effects in primary cultured neurons. We identified polydatin, genistein, daidzein, biochanin A and formononetin that can upregulate both mouse and human Ngb promoter activity. RT-PCR confirmed that polydatin, genistein and formononetin significantly increased Ngb mRNA expression in primary neurons. Furthermore, formononetin significantly decreased oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD)-induced neurotoxicity. Moreover, inhibition of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) showed that CREB is required for formononetin-induced Ngb upregulation. These results suggest that these Ngb reporter systems are suitable for neuroprotective compound screening, which will be used to screen larger compound libraries for more potent neuroprotectants. This preliminary study will facilitate the development of Ngb-targeted therapeutics for stroke and neurodegenerative diseases. labels: #Globins'
b'A new experimental model was designed to study the fate of globin adducts with styrene 7,8-oxide (SO), a metabolic intermediate of styrene and a model electrophilic compound. Rat erythrocytes were incubated with SO at 7 or 22 \xc2\xb0C. Levels of specific amino acid adducts in globin were determined by LC/MS analysis of the globin hydrolysate, and erythrocytes with known adduct content were administered intravenously to recipient rats. The course of adduct elimination from the rat blood was measured over the following 50 days. In the erythrocytes incubated at 22 \xc2\xb0C, a rapid decline in the adduct levels on the first day post-transfusion followed by a slow phase of elimination was observed. In contrast, the adduct elimination in erythrocytes incubated at 7 \xc2\xb0C was nearly linear, copying elimination of intact erythrocytes. In the urine of recipient rats, regioisomeric SO adducts at cysteine, valine, lysine, and histidine in the form of amino acid adducts and/or their acetylated metabolites as well as SO-dipeptide adducts were identified by LC/MS supported by synthesized reference standards. S-(2-Hydroxy-1-phenylethyl)cysteine and S-(2-hydroxy-2-phenylethyl)cysteine, the most abundant globin adducts, were excreted predominantly in the form of the corresponding urinary mercapturic acids (HPEMAs). Massive elimination of HPEMAs via urine occurred within the first day from the erythrocytes incubated at both 7 and 22 \xc2\xb0C. However, erythrocytes incubated at 7 \xc2\xb0C also showed a slow second phase of elimination such that HPEMAs were detected in urine up to 50 days post-transfusion. These results indicate for the first time that globin adducts can be cleaved in vivo to modified amino acids and dipeptides. The cleavage products and/or their predictable metabolites are excreted in urine over the whole life span of erythrocytes. Some of the urinary adducts may represent a new type of noninvasive biomarker for exposure to adduct-forming chemicals. labels: #Globins'
b"Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a hexa-coordinated hemoprotein with yet to be defined physiological functions. The iron coordination and spin state of the Cygb heme group are sensitive to oxidation of two cysteine residues (Cys38/Cys83) and/or the binding of free fatty acids. However, the roles of redox vs lipid regulators of Cygb's structural rearrangements in the context of the protein peroxidase competence are not known. Searching for physiologically relevant lipid regulators of Cygb, here we report that anionic phospholipids, particularly phosphatidylinositolphosphates, affect structural organization of the protein and modulate its iron state and peroxidase activity both conjointly and/or independently of cysteine oxidation. Thus, different anionic lipids can operate in cysteine-dependent and cysteine-independent ways as inducers of the peroxidase activity. We establish that Cygb's peroxidase activity can be utilized for the catalysis of peroxidation of anionic phospholipids (including phosphatidylinositolphosphates) yielding mono-oxygenated molecular species. Combined with the computational simulations we propose a bipartite lipid binding model that rationalizes the modes of interactions with phospholipids, the effects on structural re-arrangements and the peroxidase activity of the hemoprotein. labels: #Globins"
b'Cytoglobin (Cgb) is a member of hemoprotein family with roles in NO metabolism, fibrosis, and tumourigenesis. Similar to other hemoproteins, Cgb structure and functions are markedly influenced by distal key residues. The sixth ligand His(81) (E7) is crucial to exogenous ligand binding, heme pocket conformation, and physiological roles of this protein. However, the effects of other key residues on heme pocket and protein biological functions are not well known. In this work, a molecular dynamics (MD) simulation study of two single mutants in CO-ligated Cgb (L46FCgbCO and L46VCgbCO) and two double mutants (L46FH81QCgbCO and L46VH81QCgbCO) was conducted to explore the effects of the key distal residues Leu(46)(B10) and His(81)(E7) on Cgb structure and functions. Results indicated that the distal mutation of B10 and E7 affected CgbCO dynamic properties on loop region fluctuation, internal cavity rearrangement, and heme motion. The distal conformation change was reflected by the distal key residues Gln(62) (CD3) and Arg(84)(E10). The hydrogen bond between heme propionates with CD3 or E10 residues were evidently influenced by B10/E7 mutation. Furthermore, heme pocket rearrangement was also observed based on the distal pocket volume and occurrence rate of inner cavities. The mutual effects of B10 and E7 residues on protein conformational rearrangement and other dynamic features were expressed in current MD studies of CgbCO and its distal mutants, suggesting their crucial role in heme pocket stabilization, ligand binding, and Cgb biological functions. The mutation of distal B10 and E7 residues affects the dynamic features of carboxy cytoglobin. labels: #Globins'
b'Scavenging of nitric oxide (NO) often interferes with studies on NO signaling in cell-free preparations. We observed that formation of cGMP by NO-stimulated purified soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) was virtually abolished in the presence of cytosolic preparations of porcine coronary arteries, with the scavenging activity localized in the tunica media (smooth muscle layer). Electrochemical measurement of NO release from a donor compound and light absorbance spectroscopy showed that cytosolic preparations contained a reduced heme protein that scavenged NO. This protein, which reacted with anti-human hemoglobin antibodies, was efficiently removed from the preparations by haptoglobin affinity chromatography. The cleared cytosols showed only minor scavenging of NO according to electrochemical measurements and did not decrease cGMP formation by NO-stimulated sGC. In contrast, the column flow-through caused a nearly 2-fold increase of maximal sGC activity (from 33.1 \xc2\xb1 1.6 to 54.9 \xc2\xb1 2.2 \xce\xbcmol \xc3\x97 min(-1) \xc3\x97 mg(-1)). The proteins retained on the affinity column were identified as hemoglobin \xce\xb1 and \xce\xb2 subunits. The results indicate that hemoglobin, presumably derived from vasa vasorum erythrocytes, is present and scavenges NO in preparations of porcine coronary artery smooth muscle. Selective removal of hemoglobin-mediated scavenging unmasked stimulation of maximal NO-stimulated sGC activity by a soluble factor expressed in vascular tissue. labels: #Globins'
b'Soluble guanylate cyclases (sGCs) are gas-binding proteins that control diverse physiological processes such as vasodilation, platelet aggregation, and synaptic plasticity. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, a complex of sGCs, GCY-35 and GCY-36, functions in oxygen (O2) sensing. Previous studies suggested that the neuroglobin GLB-5 genetically interacts with GCY-35, and that the inhibitory effect of GLB-5 on GCY-35 function is necessary for fast recovery from prolonged hypoxia. In this study, we identified mutations in gcy-35 and gcy-36 that impact fast recovery and other phenotypes associated with GLB-5, without undermining sGC activity. These mutations, heb1 and heb3, change conserved amino acid residues in the regulatory H-NOX domains of GCY-35 and GCY-36, respectively, and appear to suppress GLB-5 activity by different mechanisms. Moreover, we observed that short exposure to 35% O2 desensitized the neurons responsible for ambient O2 sensing and that this phenomenon does not occur in heb1 animals. These observations may implicate sGCs in neuronal desensitization mechanisms far beyond the specific case of O2 sensing in nematodes. The conservation of functionally important regions of sGCs is supported by examining site-directed mutants of GCY-35, which suggested that similar regions in the H-NOX domains of O2 and NO-sensing sGCs are important for heme/gas interactions. Overall, our studies provide novel insights into sGC activity and regulation, and implicate similar structural determinants in the control of both O2 and NO sensors. Significance statement: Soluble guanylate cyclases (sGCs) control essential and diverse physiological processes, including memory processing. We used Caenorhabditis elegans to explore how a neuroglobin inhibits a complex of oxygen-sensing sGCs, identifying sGC mutants that resist inhibition. Resistance appears to arise by two different mechanisms: increased basal sGC activity or disruption of an interaction with neuroglobin. Our findings demonstrate that the inhibition of sGCs by neuroglobin is essential for rapid adaptation to either low or high oxygen levels, and that similar structural regions are key for regulating both oxygen and nitric oxide sensors. Based on our structural and functional analyses, we present the hypothesis that neuroglobin-sGC interactions may be generally important for adaptation processes, including those in organisms with more complex neurological functions. labels: #Globins'
b'This investigation examines oxidation conditions under which hemoglobin extracts membrane phospholipid from erythrocytes and model membranes. In erythrocytes made echinocytic with exogenous phospholipid, addition of hemoglobin oxidized with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) or Vitamin C (conditions that result in the formation of significant quantities of choleglobin), but not ferricyanide (which produces predominantly methemoglobin), induced dose-dependent shape reversion to less echinocytic forms, consistent with extraction of phospholipids from the exofacial side of the membrane. Erythrocytes preloaded with radiolabeled phosphatidylcholine or NBD-labeled phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol or phosphatidic acid, exhibited greatest extraction of radiolabel or fluorescence signal with exogenous hemoglobin oxidized via H2O2 or Vitamin C, but not ferricyanide. However, with NBD-phosphatidylserine (a preferential inner monolayer intercalator), significantly less extraction of labeled lipid occurred with oxidized hemoglobin prepared under all three oxidizing conditions. In dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine liposomes containing radiolabeled phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine or phosphatidylethanolamine, subsequent addition of hemoglobin oxidized with H2O2 or Vitamin C extracted radiolabeled lipid with significantly greater efficiency than ferricyanide-treated hemoglobin, with enhanced extraction detectable at levels approaching physiological plasma oxidant concentrations. Radiolabeled lipid extraction was comparable for phospholipids containing saturated acyl chains between 12 and 18 carbons but diminished significantly for oleoyl-containing phospholipids. Hemoglobin dimerization occurred at very low levels with H2O2 treatment, and even lower levels with Vitamin C treatment, and thus did not correlate to the high efficiency and consistent levels of lipid extraction observed with these treatments. These findings indicate that choleglobin extracts lipids from cell membranes regardless of headgroup or acyl chain length, through a process of direct hydrophobic interaction with the membrane surface. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) and cytoglobin (Cygb) are two six-coordinate heme proteins of unknown physiological function. Although studies on the mammalian proteins have elucidated aspects of Ngb and Cygb biophysics and indicated potential functions, the properties of non-mammalian Ngbs and Cygbs are largely uncharacterized. We have expressed the recombinant zebrafish proteins Ngb, Cygb1, and Cygb2 in Escherichia coli and characterized their nitrite reduction rates, spectral properties, autoxidation rate constants, redox potentials and lipid binding properties. The three zebrafish proteins can catalyze the reduction of nitrite to nitric oxide with a broad range of reaction rate constants. (Ngb, 0.68\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.04\xc2\xa0M(-1)\xc2\xa0s(-1); Cygb1, 28.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa03.1\xc2\xa0M(-1)\xc2\xa0s(-1); Cygb2, 0.94\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.18\xc2\xa0M(-1)\xc2\xa0s(-1)). We observe that zebrafish Ngb and Cygb2 have comparable spectral features to those of human Ngb and Cygb, consistent with a six-coordinate heme, whereas unexpectedly Cygb1 has a five-coordinate heme, a slower autoxidation and in general has properties more akin to oxygen transport proteins. In agreement with a possible oxygen carrier and nitrite reductase role, we detect mRNA transcript for Cygb1 but not Cygb2 or Ngb in zebrafish blood. Unlike human Cygb, neither of the zebrafish globins binds oleic acid with high affinity. This finding suggests that lipid binding may be a trait acquired later during evolution and not an ancestral property of cytoglobins. Altogether, our results uncover unexpected properties of zebrafish globins and reveal the pivotal role of cytoglobins in the transition of heme globins from six-coordinate to five-coordinate oxygen carriers and nitrite reductases. labels: #Globins'
b'One of the most common silent \xce\xb2-thalassemia mutations is the C>T substitution at position -101 within the distal CACCC box, which leads to a mild reduction in the expression level of the \xce\xb2-globin gene. Carriers of this mutation have a normal hematologic picture without microcytosis and borderline hemoglobin A2 values, and may be missed during screening. Co-occurrence of this mutation with one of the classical \xce\xb2-thalassemia mutations leads to \xce\xb2-thalassemia intermedia, and this is important for Mediterranean populations where \xce\xb2-thalassemia is frequent. Awareness of this mutation, which may have a heterogeneous clinical presentation, is required. We herein present the unusual hematologic findings of a Turkish family carrying this mutation. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (NGB) is a newly discovered neuroprotector and mainly localized in the neurons and retinal cells of the central and peripheral nervous systems in vertebrates, and its prokaryotic expression protein of which fused with HIV-1 virus-encoded Tat peptide exhibited significant antioxidant and anti-hypoxia. However, no study has documented on the anti-hypoxia of yeast expressed Tat-NGB. To address it, the NGB cDNA fragment with and without Tat tag was designed and conjugated to pPIC9K followed by electroporation, and positive colonies were screened. Subsequently, Tat-NGB-His and His-NGB-His proteins were expressed by inducer methanol and identified by SDS-PAGE, and purified with HisTrap\xe2\x84\xa2 FF crude column. After desalting, the transmembrane transduction of Tat-NGB was examined and identified by Western blot, and the anti-hypoxia activity was also examined by CCK-8 kit. Unexpectedly, Tat-NGB-His and His-NGB-His proteins were high yield and secretory expressed in GS115 Pichia\xc2\xa0pastoris. After purification, the high purified protein was prepared and exhibited a significant transmembrane transduction of Tat-NGB-His (**p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01, compare to control and His-NGB-His). Significantly, Tat-NGB-His could protect hypoxia induced injury of PC12 cells and had an obviously difference when comparing to control and His-NGB-His groups (*p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05, **p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01). The present study first reported the yeast expressed production of Tat-NGB-His and His-NGB-His, and then elucidated the transduction and neuroprotection of Tat-NGB-His on PC12 cell. It not only provided a significant reference for high-yield expression of NGB in yeast expression system, but also provided a significant prevention and treatment of hypoxic and ischemic brain injury. labels: #Globins'
b'Globin X (GbX) is a member of the globin family that emerged early in the evolution of Metazoa. In vertebrates, GbX is restricted to lampreys, fish, amphibians and some reptiles, and is expressed in neurons. Unlike any other metazoan globin, GbX is N-terminally acylated and anchored in the cell membrane via myristoyl and palmitoyl groups, suggesting a unique function. Here, we compared the capacity of GbX to protect a mouse neuronal cell line from hypoxia and reactive oxygen species (ROS) with that of myoglobin. To evaluate the contribution of membrane-binding, we generated a mutated version of GbX without acyl groups. All three globins enhanced cell viability under hypoxia, with myoglobin having the most pronounced effect. GbX but not myoglobin protected the cells from hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced stress. Membrane-bound GbX was significantly more efficient than its mutated, soluble form. Furthermore, myoglobin and mutated GbX increased production of ROS upon H2O2-treatment, while membrane-bound GbX did not. The results indicate that myoglobin enhances O2 supply while GbX protects the cell membrane from ROS-stress. The ancient origin of GbX suggests that ROS-protection reflects the function of the early globins before they acquired a respiratory role. labels: #Globins'
b'Moderate levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are now recognized as redox signalling molecules. However, thus far, only mitochondria and NADPH oxidases have been identified as cellular sources of ROS in signalling. Here we identify a globin (GLB-12) that produces superoxide, a type of ROS, which serves as an essential signal for reproduction in C. elegans. We find that GLB-12 has an important role in the regulation of multiple aspects in germline development, including germ cell apoptosis. We further describe how GLB-12 displays specific molecular, biochemical and structural properties that allow this globin to act as a superoxide generator. In addition, both an intra- and extracellular superoxide dismutase act as key partners of GLB-12 to create a transmembrane redox signal. Our results show that a globin can function as a driving factor in redox signalling, and how this signal is regulated at the subcellular level by multiple control layers. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is an oxygen-binding protein with a demonstrated role in endogenous neuroprotective mechanisms. It has been shown to function as a scavenger for reactive oxidizing species thereby assisting in cellular defense against oxidative stress. In the present study, we characterized the presence of Ngb in the human cochlea. Immunohistochemical staining was performed on formalin fixed celloidin human cochlea sections obtained from human temporal bones, using affinity purified polyclonal antibodies against Ngb. Thirty-six temporal bones were analyzed, 15 with normal otologic histories and 21 diagnosed with different inner ear pathologies. Ngb immunoreactivity (Ngb-IR) was consistently expressed in the neurons of spiral ganglia (SG) and supporting cells of the organ of Corti. There was a significant decrease of Ngb-IR in SGNs from specimens with inner ear pathologies when compared to normal specimens. In contrast, Ngb-IR in the organ of Corti did not show significant changes between pathological and normal specimens. The differential pattern of Ngb expression in these cochlear structures suggests that Ngb may participate in defense mechanisms in inner ear pathologies where oxidative stress is involved. labels: #Globins'
b'Erythropoiesis requires rapid and extensive hemoglobin production. Heme activates globin transcription and translation; therefore, heme synthesis must precede globin synthesis. As free heme is a potent inducer of oxidative damage, its levels within cellular compartments require stringent regulation. Mice lacking the heme exporter FLVCR1 have a severe macrocytic anemia; however, the mechanisms that underlie erythropoiesis dysfunction in these animals are unclear. Here, we determined that erythropoiesis failure occurs in these animals at the CFU-E/proerythroblast stage, a point at which the transferrin receptor (CD71) is upregulated, iron is imported, and heme is synthesized--before ample globin is produced. From the CFU-E/proerythroblast (CD71(+) Ter119(-) cells) stage onward, erythroid progenitors exhibited excess heme content, increased cytoplasmic ROS, and increased apoptosis. Reducing heme synthesis in FLVCR1-defient animals via genetic and biochemical approaches improved the anemia, implying that heme excess causes, and is not just associated with, the erythroid marrow failure. Expression of the cell surface FLVCR1 isoform, but not the mitochondrial FLVCR1 isoform, restored normal rbc production, demonstrating that cellular heme export is essential. Together, these studies provide insight into how heme is regulated to allow effective erythropoiesis, show that erythropoiesis fails when heme is excessive, and emphasize the importance of evaluating Ter119(-) erythroid cells when studying erythroid marrow failure in murine models. labels: #Globins'
b'Epigenome editing with the CRISPR (clustered, regularly interspaced, short palindromic repeats)-Cas9 platform is a promising technology for modulating gene expression to direct cell phenotype and to dissect the causal epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation. Fusions of nuclease-inactive dCas9 to the Kr\xc3\xbcppel-associated box (KRAB) repressor (dCas9-KRAB) can silence target gene expression, but the genome-wide specificity and the extent of heterochromatin formation catalyzed by dCas9-KRAB are not known. We targeted dCas9-KRAB to the HS2 enhancer, a distal regulatory element that orchestrates the expression of multiple globin genes, and observed highly specific induction of H3K9 trimethylation (H3K9me3) at the enhancer and decreased chromatin accessibility of both the enhancer and its promoter targets. Targeted epigenetic modification of HS2 silenced the expression of multiple globin genes, with minimal off-target changes in global gene expression. These results demonstrate that repression mediated by dCas9-KRAB is sufficiently specific to disrupt the activity of individual enhancers via local modification of the epigenome. labels: #Globins'
b"OBJECTIVE: To identify the early changes of serum neuroglobin and Nogo-A concentrations and the relations to traumatic brain injury (TBI) severity and prognosis.METHODS: Serum samples were obtained and analyzed from 34 patients with TBI within the first 96\xe2\x80\x89h after injury. Comparative analysis combined with Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) scores and the 6-month prognosis of these patients was performed.RESULTS: Significant correlations were found between peak serum neuroglobin and Nogo-A concentrations and a patient's GCS score on admission (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001). The mean peak serum neuroglobin and Nogo-A concentrations were both significantly higher in patients with an unfavorable outcome at 6 months after injury (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05).CONCLUSIONS: Serum neuroglobin and Nogo-A levels could be suggested as biomarkers for predicting TBI severity and prognosis. labels: #Globins"
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a new member of the family of heme proteins and is specifically expressed in neurons of the central and peripheral nervous systems in all vertebrates. In particular, the retina has a 100-fold higher concentration of Ngb than do other nervous tissues. The role of Ngb in the retina is yet to be clarified. Therefore, to understand the functional role of Ngb in the retina after optic nerve injury (ONI), we used two types of retina, from zebrafish and mice, which have permissible and non-permissible capacity for nerve regeneration after ONI, respectively. After ONI, the Ngb protein in zebrafish was upregulated in the amacrine cells within 3 days, whereas in the mouse retina, Ngb was downregulated in the retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) within 3 days. Zebrafish Ngb (z-Ngb) significantly enhanced neurite outgrowth in retinal explant culture. According to these results, we designed an overexpression experiment with the mouse Ngb (m-Ngb) gene in RGC-5 cells (retinal precursor cells). The excess of m-Ngb actually rescued RGC-5 cells under hypoxic conditions and significantly enhanced neurite outgrowth in cell culture. These data suggest that mammalian Ngb has positive neuroprotective and neuritogenic effects that induce nerve regeneration after ONI. labels: #Globins'
b'Biological significance of the globin protein family could be ascertained by their conservation through archaea to human. Globin(s) have been "classically" studied as oxygen binding protein(s), with recent implications in a host of other physiological functions. Drosophila melanogaster possesses three globin genes (glob1, glob2, glob3) located at different cytogenetic positions. We have performed a comprehensive investigation on the cellular expression profile and functional relevance of glob1 in Drosophila development. A profound level of maternally contributed glob1 gene products was found during early embryogenesis. Subsequently, commencement of zygotic transcription leads to its strong expression in somatic muscles, gut primordia, fat bodies, tracheal cells, etc. Similarly, dynamic expression of glob1 was evident in most of the larval tissues, interestingly with high expression in dividing cells. Reduced expression of glob1 leads to various impairments and lethality during embryogenesis and larval development. A substantial increase in level of cellular ROS was also evident due to reduced expression of glob1 which consequently leads to locomotor impairment and early aging in surviving adult flies. To best of our knowledge, this is the first report which demonstrates that in addition to oxygen management, globin gene(s) are also involved in regulating various aspects of development in Drosophila. labels: #Globins'
b'This study was aimed at understanding the effect of intermittent hypobaric hypoxia preconditioning (IHHP) on neuroglobin (NGB) and Bcl-2 expression in the hippocampal CA1 region of rats following global cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. Wistar rats were randomly divided into sham, IHHP control, global cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (IR group), and IHHP+IR groups. The four-vessel occlusion rat model of Pulsinelli was used for the IR groups, in which the common carotid artery was occluded for 8 min before reperfusion. Thionin and immunohistochemical staining were used to observe NGB and Bcl-2 expression in the hippocampal CA1 region. Data was analyzed using the SPSS software. There was a significant increase in the number of surviving cells in the hippocampal CA1 region of the IHHP+IR group (119.5 \xc2\xb1 14) compared to the IR group (41.7 \xc2\xb1 3.8) (P<0.05). There was a significant increase in the expression of NGB and Bcl-2 in the hippocampal CA1 region of the IHHP+IR group compared to the IR group. By upregulating hippocampal NGB and Bcl-2 expression, IHHP may play a role in neural protection by reducing hippocampal neuronal apoptosis following IR. labels: #Globins'
b'Ferrous myoglobin was oxidized by sulfur trioxide anion radical (STAR) during the free radical chain oxidation of sulfite. Oxidation was inhibited by the STAR scavenger GSH and by the heme ligand CO. Bimolecular rate constants for the reaction of STAR with several ferrous globins and biomolecules were determined by kinetic competition. Reaction rate constants for myoglobin, hemoglobin, neuroglobin, and flavohemoglobin are large at 38, 120, 2,600, and \xe2\x89\xa5 7,500 \xc3\x97 10(6) m(-1) s(-1), respectively, and correlate with redox potentials. Measured rate constants for O2, GSH, ascorbate, and NAD(P)H are also large at \xe2\x88\xbc100, 10, 130, and 30 \xc3\x97 10(6) m(-1) s(-1), respectively, but nevertheless allow for favorable competition by globins and a capacity for STAR scavenging in vivo. Saccharomyces cerevisiae lacking sulfite oxidase and deleted of flavohemoglobin showed an O2-dependent growth impairment with nonfermentable substrates that was exacerbated by sulfide, a precursor to mitochondrial sulfite formation. Higher O2 exposures inactivated the superoxide-sensitive mitochondrial aconitase in cells, and hypoxia elicited both aconitase and NADP(+)-isocitrate dehydrogenase activity losses. Roles for STAR-derived peroxysulfate radical, superoxide radical, and sulfo-NAD(P) in the mechanism of STAR toxicity and flavohemoglobin protection in yeast are suggested. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: The diverse clinical phenotype of hemoglobin E (HbE)/\xce\xb2-thalassemia has not only confounded clinicians in matters of patient management but has also led scientists to investigate the complex mechanisms involved in maintaining the delicate red cell environment where, even with apparent similarities of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genotypes, the phenotype tells a different story. The BTB and CNC homology 1 (BACH1) protein is known to regulate \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin gene transcriptions during the terminal differentiation of erythroid cells. With the mutations involved in HbE/\xce\xb2-thalassemia disorder, we studied the role of BACH1 in compensating for the globin chain imbalance, albeit for fine-tuning purposes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 47 HbE/\xce\xb2-thalassemia samples were analyzed using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and correlated with age, sex, red blood cell parameters, globin gene expressions, and some clinical data.RESULTS: The BACH1 expression among the \xce\xb2-thalassemia intermedia patients varied by up to 2-log differences and was positively correlated to age; \xce\xb1-, \xce\xb2-, and \xce\xb3-globin gene expression level; and heme oxygenase 1 protein. BACH1 was also negatively correlated to reticulocyte level and had a significant correlation with splenectomy.CONCLUSION: This study indicates that the expression of BACH1 could be elevated as a compensatory mechanism to decrease the globin chain imbalance as well as to reduce the oxidative stress found in HbE/\xce\xb2-thalassemia. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb), a 17 kDa monomeric protein, was initially described as a vertebrate oxygen-binding heme protein in 2000 and detected in metabolically active organs or cells, like the brain, peripheral nervous system as well as certain endocrine cells. A large array of initial experimental work reported that Ngb displayed a neuron restricted expression pattern in mammalian brains. However, growing evidence indicated astrocytes may also express Ngb under pathological conditions. To address the question whether human astrocytes express Ngb under traumatic insults, we investigated Ngb immuno-reactivity in post-mortem human brain tissues that died of acute, sub-acute and chronic brain trauma, respectively. We observed astrocytic Ngb expression in sub-acute and chronic traumatic brains rather than acute traumatic brains. Strikingly, the Ngb immuno-reactive astrocytes were still strongly detectable in groups that died 12 months after brain trauma. Our findings may imply an unexplored role of Ngb in astrocytes and the involved mechanisms were suggested to be further characterized. Also, therapeutic application of Ngb or Ngb-inducible chemical compounds in neuro-genesis or astrocytic scar forming can be expected. labels: #Globins'
b"Excessive accumulation and deposition of amyloid-beta (A\xce\xb2) has been considered as a pivotal event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuronal apoptosis is one of the characteristics of AD, which is a possible mechanism underlying A\xce\xb2-induced neuronal neurotoxicity. Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a newly discovered vertebrate heme protein that exhibits neuroprotective functions against cell death associated with hypoxic and amyloid insult. However, until now, the exact mechanism of neuroglobin's protective action has not been determined. To investigate the potential neuroprotective roles and mechanisms of Ngb, transgenic AD mice (APPswe/PSEN1dE9) and SH-SY5Y cells transfected with pAPPswe were enrolled into the study. In vivo, overexpression of Ngb via intracerebroventricular injection with pNgb attenuated memory, cognitive impairment, and plaque generations. In pAPPswe transfected SH-SY5Y cells, Ngb not only decreased the generation of A\xce\xb242, but also attenuated mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis through suppressing the activation of caspase-3, caspase-9 by Akt activating phosphorylation, which were restrained by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor (LY294002). Our data indicate the anti-apoptotic property of Ngb may play a neuroprotective role against AD. labels: #Globins"
b'Thyroid hormones (THs) are essential and crucial for brain development, playing a role in growth and differentiation. Two globins named neuroglobin (Ngb) and cytoglobin (Cygb) are located in the brain, and each one has different distribution and function: They seem to have similar action by providing O(2) for respiratory chain, and detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and nitric oxide (NO) protecting tissues against irreversible lesions. We aimed to investigate the influence of thyroid state in Ngb and Cygb metabolism in different brain regions and evaluate their responses in cerebellum, hippocampus and cerebral cortex (hereafter called as cortex) after supraphysiological doses at different time points of TH administration. Experiments were carried out in rats, divided in eight experimental groups Control (C), thyroidectomy (Tx), and thyroidectomy treated with jugular intravenous injection (i.v). T3 (100 \xce\xbcl/100 g) injection and sacrificed after 30, 60, 120 min and 6, 12 and 24 h. In cortex, we found increase in Ngb gene and protein expression in different time points compared to C group, however Cygb gene and protein expression were decreased. In hippocampus, Ngb and Cygb protein expression increased 24 h after i.v. T3 injection in comparison to Tx. In cerebellum, we found increased Ngb gene expression after 120 min, 6, 12 and 24 h after T3 administration compared to Tx, and in contrast, protein expression was found to be significantly increased only 12 and 24 h compared to Tx. Ngb and Cygb expression in brain is influenced by thyroid hormone state both by its lack or excess. labels: #Globins'
b'We characterized the peroxidase mechanism of recombinant rat brain cytoglobin (Cygb) challenged by hydrogen peroxide, tert-butylhydroperoxide and by cumene hydroperoxide. The peroxidase mechanism of Cygb is similar to that of myoglobin. Cygb challenged by hydrogen peroxide is converted to a Fe4+ oxoferryl \xcf\x80 cation, which is converted to Fe4+ oxoferryl and tyrosyl radical detected by direct continuous wave-electron paramagnetic resonance and by 3,5-dibromo-4-nitrosobenzene sulfonate spin trapping. When organic peroxides are used as substrates at initial reaction times, and given an excess of peroxide present, the EPR signals of the corresponding peroxyl radicals precede those of the direct tyrosyl radical. This result is consistent with the use of peroxide as a reducing agent for the recycling of Cygb high-valence species. Furthermore, we found that the Cygb oxidation by peroxides leads to the formation of amyloid fibrils. This result suggests that Cygb possibly participates in the development of degenerative diseases; our findings also support the possible biological role of Cygb related to peroxidase activity. labels: #Globins'
b'Previous studies identifying the potential anti-apoptotic role of neuroglobin raise the question as to how cells might employ neuroglobin to avoid the apoptotic impact of acute hypoxia whilst also avoiding chronic enhancement of tumour formation. We show that under likely physiological conditions neuroglobin can take part in a futile redox cycle. Determination of the rate constants for each of the steps in the cycle allows us to mathematically model the steady state concentration of the active anti-apoptotic ferrous form of neuroglobin under various conditions. Under likely normal physiological conditions neuroglobin is shown to be present in the ferrous state at approximately 30% of its total cellular concentration. Under hypoxic conditions this rapidly rises to approximately 80%. Temporal analysis of this model indicates that the transition from low concentrations to high concentration of ferrous neuroglobin occurs on the seconds time scale. These findings indicate a potential control model for the anti-apoptotic activity of neuroglobin, under likely physiological conditions, whereby, in normoxic conditions, the anti-apoptotic activity of neuroglobin is maintained at a low level, whilst immediately a transition occurs to a hypoxic situation, as might arise during stroke, the anti-apoptotic activity is drastically increased. In this way the cell avoids unwanted increased oncogenic potential under normal conditions, but the rapid activation of neuroglobin provides anti-apoptotic protection in times of acute hypoxia. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent genomic information has revealed that neuroglobin and cytoglobin are the two principal lineages of vertebrate hemoglobins, with the latter encompassing the familiar myoglobin and \xce\xb1-globin/\xce\xb2-globin tetramer hemoglobin, and several minor groups. In contrast, very little is known about hemoglobins in echinoderms, a phylum of exclusively marine organisms closely related to vertebrates, beyond the presence of coelomic hemoglobins in sea cucumbers and brittle stars. We identified about 50 hemoglobins in sea urchin, starfish and sea cucumber genomes and transcriptomes, and used Bayesian inference to carry out a molecular phylogenetic analysis of their relationship to vertebrate sequences, specifically, to assess the hypothesis that the neuroglobin and cytoglobin lineages are also present in echinoderms.RESULTS: The genome of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus encodes several hemoglobins, including a unique chimeric 14-domain globin, 2 androglobin isoforms and a unique single androglobin domain protein. Other strongylocentrotid genomes appear to have similar repertoires of globin genes. We carried out molecular phylogenetic analyses of 52 hemoglobins identified in sea urchin, brittle star and sea cucumber genomes and transcriptomes, using different multiple sequence alignment methods coupled with Bayesian and maximum likelihood approaches. The results demonstrate that there are two major globin lineages in echinoderms, which are related to the vertebrate neuroglobin and cytoglobin lineages. Furthermore, the brittle star and sea cucumber coelomic hemoglobins appear to have evolved independently from the cytoglobin lineage, similar to the evolution of erythroid oxygen binding globins in cyclostomes and vertebrates.CONCLUSION: The presence of echinoderm globins related to the vertebrate neuroglobin and cytoglobin lineages suggests that the split between neuroglobins and cytoglobins occurred in the deuterostome ancestor shared by echinoderms and vertebrates. labels: #Globins'
b"The globin-coupled histidine kinase, AfGcHK, is a part of the two-component signal transduction system from the soil bacterium Anaeromyxobacter sp. Fw109-5. Activation of its sensor domain significantly increases its autophosphorylation activity, which targets the His183 residue of its functional domain. The phosphate group of phosphorylated AfGcHK is then transferred to the cognate response regulator. We investigated the effects of selected variables on the autophosphorylation reaction's kinetics. The kcat values of the heme Fe(III)-OH(-), Fe(III)-cyanide, Fe(III)-imidazole, and Fe(II)-O2 bound active AfGcHK forms were 1.1-1.2 min(-1), and their Km(ATP) values were 18.9-35.4 \xce\xbcM. However, the active form bearing a CO-bound Fe(II) heme had a kcat of 1.0 min(-1) but a very high Km(ATP) value of 357 \xce\xbcM, suggesting that its active site structure differs strongly from the other active forms. The Fe(II) heme-bound inactive form had kcat and Km(ATP) values of 0.4 min(-1) and 78 \xce\xbcM, respectively, suggesting that its low activity reflects a low affinity for ATP relative to that of the Fe(III) form. The heme-free form exhibited low activity, with kcat and Km(ATP) values of 0.3 min(-1) and 33.6 \xce\xbcM, respectively, suggesting that the heme iron complex is essential for high catalytic activity. Overall, our results indicate that the coordination and oxidation state of the sensor domain heme iron profoundly affect the enzyme's catalytic activity because they modulate its ATP binding affinity and thus change its kcat/Km(ATP) value. The effects of the response regulator and different divalent metal cations on the autophosphorylation reaction are also discussed. labels: #Globins"
b'Hemoglobin transports oxygen in many organisms and consists of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin chains. Previously, using molecular phylogenetic analysis, we proposed that both \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globins of teleost could be classified into four groups. We also showed that the Hd-rR strain of medaka (Oryzias latipes) inhabiting southern Japan had all four groups of globin genes but that the \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes of group III were pseudogenized (\xce\xb15(\xcf\x88\xce\xb1), \xce\xb25(\xcf\x88\xce\xb2)). Based on the small degree of nucleotide variations, the pseudogenization of \xce\xb25 was assumed to have occurred at a relatively late stage of evolution. Here, we compared the \xce\xb15(\xcf\x88\xce\xb1)-\xce\xb25(\xcf\x88\xce\xb2) of two other strains of O. latipes and found that both \xce\xb15(\xcf\x88\xce\xb1) and \xce\xb25(\xcf\x88\xce\xb2) of the northern Japanese and Korean strains were pseudogenized similar to those of Hd-rR. In a Philippine population (Oryzias luzonensis), \xce\xb15(\xcf\x88\xce\xb1) was also pseudogenized, but the structure was different from that of O. latipes, and \xce\xb25(\xcf\x88\xce\xb2) was almost deleted. Interestingly, an Indonesian population (Oryzias celebensis) had \xce\xb15 and \xce\xb25 genes that were deduced to be functional. Indeed, they were expressed from the young to adult development stages, and this expression pattern was consistent with the expression of \xce\xb12 and ad.\xce\xb11 in Hd-rR. Because \xce\xb12 and ad.\xce\xb11 in Hd-rR were assigned to groups I and II, respectively, we speculate that their expression patterns might be altered by pseudogenization of group III genes. These results provide a basis for further investigations of recruiting and changing expression patterns of one globin gene after pseudogenization of other globin genes during evolution. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: We have previously shown that neuroglobin (Ngb) expression can be regulated by sodium arsenite (NaAsO2) exposure in rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). However, the precise molecular mechanisms of Ngb action are largely unknown. Ras homolog (Rho) guanosine triphosphatases (Rho GTPases) are involved in the regulation of a number of cellular processes, including cell cytotoxicity. It has been reported that Ngb can act as a guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitior (GDI) role to inactivate Rho GTPases. Therefore, we investigated Rho GTPases activation induced by NaAsO2 exposure in rat CGNs and effects of Rho GTPases activation on the cells. We also investigated the role of Ngb in this process.METHODS: Primary cultures of CGNs were prepared from 7-day-old Wistar rat pups. The cytotoxic effects of NaAsO2 on CGNs were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 assay and TUNEL staining. RNA interference technology was used to silence Ngb, and the subsequent effects were evaluated by quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot. Cdc42 and Rac1 activation were measured by pull-down assay and Western blot.RESULTS: NaAsO2 induced cytotoxicity in rat CGNs, increased GTP-bound form of Cdc42 and Rac1 GTPases in the cells. Furthermore, inhibition of Cdc42 or Rac1 activity using the inhibitor ZCL278 or NSC23766 decreased apoptosis and increased cell viability in the cells exposed to NaAsO2. Using siRNA-mediated knockdown, we show that NaAsO2-induced cytotoxicity was exacerbated, activation of Cdc42 (GTP-Cdc42) and Rac1 (GTP-Rac1) was increased in Ngb RNA silencing cells.CONCLUSIONS: cytotoxic effects of NaAsO2 on rat CGNs is induced at least partly by Cdc42 and Rac1 activation, and Ngb can inhibit Cdc42 and Rac1 activation to play protective role in rat CGNs exposed to NaAsO2. labels: #Globins'
b'During physiological aerobic metabolism, the epidermis undergoes significant oxidative stress as a result of the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). To maintain a balanced oxidative state, cells have developed protective antioxidant systems, and preliminary studies suggest that the transcriptional factor p63 is involved in cellular oxidative defence. Supporting this hypothesis, the \xce\x94Np63\xce\xb1 isoform of p63 is expressed at high levels in the proliferative basal layer of the epidermis. Here we identify the CYGB gene as a novel transcriptional target of \xce\x94Np63 that is involved in maintaining epidermal oxidative defence. The CYGB gene encodes cytoglobin, a member of the globin protein family, which facilitates the diffusion of oxygen through tissues and acts as a scavenger for nitric oxide or other ROS. By performing promoter activity assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation, reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR and western blotting analyses, we confirm the direct regulation of CYGB by \xce\x94Np63\xce\xb1. We also demonstrate that CYGB has a protective role in proliferating keratinocytes grown under normal conditions, as well as in cells treated with exogenous hydrogen peroxide. These results indicate that \xce\x94Np63, through its target CYGB has an important role in the cellular antioxidant system and protects keratinocytes from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. The \xce\x94Np63-CYGB axis is also present in lung and breast cancer cell lines, indicating that CYGB-mediated ROS-scavenging activity may also have a role in epithelial tumours. In human lung cancer data sets, the p63-CYGB interaction significantly predicts reduction of patient survival. labels: #Globins'
b'The globin coupled heme containing adenylate cyclase from Leishmania major (HemAC-Lm) has two globin domains (globin-A and globin-B). Globin-B domain (210-360 amino acids) may guide the interaction between globin-A and adenylate cyclase domains for the regulation of catalysis. We investigated the role of globin-B domain in HemAC-Lm by constructing a series of mutants namely \xce\x94209 (209 amino acids deleted), \xce\x94360 (360 amino acids deleted), H161A, H311A and H311A-\xce\x94209. Spectroscopic data suggest that the \xce\x94209 and H311A-\xce\x94209 proteins to be Fe(2+)-O2 form and apo form, respectively, indicating that His311 residue in the globin-B domain is crucial for heme binding in \xce\x94209 protein. However, the H311A mutant is still of the Fe(2+)-O2 form whereas H161A mutant shows the apo form, indicating that only His161 residue in the globin-A domain is responsible for heme binding in full length enzyme. cAMP measurements suggest that the activities of \xce\x94360 and \xce\x94209 proteins were \xe2\x88\xbc10 and \xe2\x88\xbc1000 times lesser than full length enzyme, respectively, leading to the fact that globin-B domain inhibited catalysis rather than activation in absence of globin-A domain. These data suggest that the O2 bound globin-A domain in HemAC-Lm allows the best cooperation of the catalytic domain interactions to generate optimum cAMP. labels: #Globins'
b'Globins are haem-binding proteins with a conserved fold made up of \xce\xb1-helices and can possess diverse properties. A putative globin-coupled sensor from Methylacidiphilum infernorum, HGbRL, contains an N-terminal globin domain whose open and closed structures reveal an untypical dimeric architecture. Helices E and F fuse into an elongated helix, resulting in a novel site-swapped globin fold made up of helices A-E, hence the distal site, from one subunit and helices F-H, the proximal site, from another. The open structure possesses a large cavity binding an imidazole molecule, while the closed structure forms a unique Lys-His hexacoordinated species, with the first turn of helix E unravelling to allow Lys52(E10) to bind to the haem. Ligand binding induces reorganization of loop CE, which is stabilized in the closed form, and helix E, triggering a large conformational movement in the open form. These provide a mechanical insight into how a signal may be relayed between the globin domain and the C-terminal domain of HGbRL, a Roadblock/LC7 domain. Comparison with HGbI, a closely related globin, further underlines the high degree of structural versatility that the globin fold is capable of, enabling it to perform a diversity of functions. labels: #Globins'
b'Globins are small heme proteins that play an important role in oxygen supply, but may also have other functions. Globins offer a unique opportunity to study the functional evolution of genes and proteins. We have characterized the globin repertoire of two different turtle species: the Chinese softshell turtle (Pelodiscus sinensis) and the western painted turtle (Chrysemys picta bellii). In the genomes of both species, we have identified eight distinct globin types: hemoglobin (Hb), myoglobin, neuroglobin, cytoglobin, globin E, globin X, globin Y, and androglobin. Therefore, along with the coelacanth, turtles are so far the only known vertebrates with a full globin repertoire. This fact allows for the first time a comparative analysis of the expression of all eight globins in a single species. Phylogenetic analysis showed an early divergence of neuroglobin and globin X before the radiation of vertebrates. Among the other globins, cytoglobin diverged first, and there is a close relationship between myoglobin and globin E; the position of globin Y is not resolved. The globin E gene was selectively lost in the green anole, and the genes coding for globin X and globin Y were deleted in chicken. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction experiments revealed that myoglobin, neuroglobin, and globin E are highly expressed with tissue-specific patterns, which are in line with their roles in the oxidative metabolism of the striated muscles, the brain, and the retina, respectively. Histochemical analyses showed high levels of globin E in the pigment epithelium of the eye. Globin E probably has a myoglobin-like role in transporting O2 across the pigment epithelium to supply in the metabolically highly active retina. labels: #Globins'
b'YddV is a newly discovered signal transducer heme protein that recognizes O2 and CO. Structural differences in the ligand-bound heme complex in YddV reflect variations in catalytic regulation by O2 and CO. Time-resolved step-scan (TRS(2)) FTIR studies of the wild type and of the important in oxygen recognition and stability of the heme Fe(II)-O2 complex L65M, L65T, Y43A, Y43F and Y43W mutants were performed to determine the site-specific protein dynamics following carbon monoxide (CO) photodissociation. These mutations were designed to perturb the electrostatic field near the iron-bound gaseous ligand (CO) and also to allow us to investigate the communication pathway between the distal residues of the protein and heme. TRS(2)-FTIR spectra of YddV-heme-CO show that the heme propionates are in protonated and deprotonated states. Moreover, the rate of decay of the vibrations of amide I is on a time scale that coincides with the rate of rebinding of CO, which suggests that there is coupling between ligation dynamics in the distal heme environment and (i) relaxation of the protein backbone and (ii) the environment sensed by the heme propionates. The fast recombination rates in L65M, L65T and Y43W imply a significant role of L65 and Y43 in controlling the ligand dynamics. The implications of these results with respect to the role of the heme propionates and the charged or proton-donating residues in the distal pocket, which are crucial for stabilizing bound gaseous ligands, are discussed. labels: #Globins'
b'Fast and accurate computation of protein stability is increasingly important for e.g. protein engineering and protein misfolding diseases, but no consensus methods exist for important proteins such as globins, and performance may depend on the type of structural input given. This paper reports benchmarking of six protein stability calculators (POPMUSIC 2.1, I-Mutant 2.0, I-Mutant 3.0, CUPSAT, SDM, and mCSM) against 134 experimental stability changes for mutations of sperm-whale myoglobin. Six different high-resolution structures were used to test structure sensitivity that may impair protein calculations. The trend accuracy of the methods decreased as I-Mutant 2.0 (R=0.64-0.65), SDM (R=0.57-0.60), POPMUSIC2.1 (R=0.54-0.57), I-Mutant 3.0 (R=0.53-0.55), mCSM (R=0.35-0.47), and CUPSAT (R=0.25-0.48). The mean signed errors increased as SDM<CUPSAT<I-Mutant 2.0<I-Mutant 3.0<POPMUSIC 2.1<mCSM. Mean absolute errors increased as I-Mutant 2.0<I-Mutant 3.0<POPMUSIC 2.1<CUPSAT<SDM<mCSM. Structural sensitivity increased as I-Mutant 3.0 (0.05)<I-Mutant 2.0 (0.09)<POPMUSIC 2.1 (0.12)<SDM (0.18)<mCSM (0.27)<CUPSAT (0.58). Leaving out heterogeneous experimental data did not change conclusions. The distinct performances reveal room for improvement, but I-Mutant 2.0 is proficient for this purpose, as further validated against a data set of related cytochrome c like proteins. The results also emphasize the importance of high-quality crystal structures and reveal structure-dependent effects even in the near-atomic resolution limit. labels: #Globins'
b'PURPOSE: Limb remote ischemic per-conditioning or post-conditioning has been shown to be neuroprotective after cerebral ischemic stroke. However, the effect of combining remote per-conditioning with post-conditioning on ischemic/reperfusion injury as well as the underlying mechanisms are largely unexplored.METHODS: Here, adult male Sprague Dawley rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). The limb ischemic stimulus was immediately applied after onset of focal ischemia (per-conditioning), followed by repeated short episodes of remote ischemia 24 hr after reperfusion (post-conditioning). The infarct volume, motor function, and the expression of neuroglobin (Ngb) were measured at different durations after reperfusion.RESULTS: We found that a single episode of limb remote per-conditioning afforded short-term protection, but combining repeated remote post-conditioning during the 14 days after reperfusion significantly ameliorated cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury. Interestingly, we also found that ischemic per- and post-conditioning significantly increased expression of Ngb, an oxygen-binding globin protein that has been demonstrated to be neuroprotective against stroke, at peri-infarct regions from day 1 to day 14 following ischemia/reperfusion.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the conventional per-conditioning combined with post-conditioning may be used as a novel neuroprotective strategy against ischemia-reperfusion injury, and Ngb seems to be one of the important players in limb remote ischemia-mediated neuroprotection. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (NGB) is a recently identified protein, which is localized in the neurons and retinal cells of the central and peripheral nervous systems in vertebrates. It is hypothesized to function as a scavenger for reactive oxygen species, or as a stress-responsive sensor for signal transduction in hypoxic-ischemic brain insults. However, the mechanism underlying the physiological function of this protein remains to be elucidated. In the present study, the profiling of changes in the serum redox index of morphological features of the hippocampus and cortex, and of the expression of NGB and hypoxia-inducible factor-1\xce\xb1 (HIF-1\xce\xb1), are described in a rat middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model. The necrotic zone of the rat neural tissues increased in size with increasing reperfusion time, and different brain slices exhibited necrosis in different regions. The number of NGB-positive hippocampal and cortical cells, as well as NGB and HIF-1\xce\xb1 transcript and protein levels in the ischemic cortex, increased with increasing reperfusion time. NGB and HIF-1\xce\xb1 mRNA and protein levels peaked in the group that received reperfusion at 32 h after MCAO. These findings indicated that HIF-1\xce\xb1 may be involved in ischemic pathology in an MCAO model and that NGB expression may be upregulated. Serum superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity decreased and serum malondialdehyde (MDA) levels increased with increasing reperfusion time, indicating that the redox potential increased following MCAO. Serum SOD and MDA measurements may, therefore, be useful as biomarkers for the early detection of ischemic injury in a clinical setting. labels: #Globins'
b'Tanshinone IIA (TA) has been recently used to treat liver diseases. However, the poor water solubility and fast metabolism obstruct TA in to be used for the treatment of liver diseases. To overcome this, TA was encapsulated into globin to form nanoparticles (TA-Gb-NPs) by our self-assembling method. We evaluated their biodistribution, pharmacokinetics, targeting ability to liver and antifibrotic effects. As a result, TA-Gb-NPs had a good hepatic targeting ability and achieved higher concentration and longer retention in liver than tanshinone IIA suspension (TA-S). Compared with TA-S, TA-Gb-NPs significantly improved serum biochemical parameters in thioacetamide (TAA) induced liver fibrosis mouse model. Furthermore, histological analysis of mouse liver slices revealed that TA-Gb-NPs could markedly reduce the fibrosis scores and attenuate the progression of the hepatic fibrosis. In conclusion, the TA-Gb-NPs may be a good candidate for the treatment of hepatic fibrosis. labels: #Globins'
b'Comparative analyses of vertebrate genomes continue to uncover a surprising diversity of genes in the globin gene superfamily, some of which have very restricted phyletic distributions despite their antiquity. Genomic analysis of the globin gene repertoire of cartilaginous fish (Chondrichthyes) should be especially informative about the duplicative origins and ancestral functions of vertebrate globins, as divergence between Chondrichthyes and bony vertebrates represents the most basal split within the jawed vertebrates. Here, we report a comparative genomic analysis of the vertebrate globin gene family that includes the complete globin gene repertoire of the elephant shark (Callorhinchus milii). Using genomic sequence data from representatives of all major vertebrate classes, integrated analyses of conserved synteny and phylogenetic relationships revealed that the last common ancestor of vertebrates possessed a repertoire of at least seven globin genes: single copies of androglobin and neuroglobin, four paralogous copies of globin X, and the single-copy progenitor of the entire set of vertebrate-specific globins. Combined with expression data, the genomic inventory of elephant shark globins yielded four especially surprising findings: 1) there is no trace of the neuroglobin gene (a highly conserved gene that is present in all other jawed vertebrates that have been examined to date), 2) myoglobin is highly expressed in heart, but not in skeletal muscle (reflecting a possible ancestral condition in vertebrates with single-circuit circulatory systems), 3) elephant shark possesses two highly divergent globin X paralogs, one of which is preferentially expressed in gonads, and 4) elephant shark possesses two structurally distinct \xce\xb1-globin paralogs, one of which is preferentially expressed in the brain. Expression profiles of elephant shark globin genes reveal distinct specializations of function relative to orthologs in bony vertebrates and suggest hypotheses about ancestral functions of vertebrate globins. labels: #Globins'
b'The study assessed the effect of conscious halal slaughter and slaughter following minimal anesthesia on bleeding efficiency of goats and keeping quality of goat meat. Ten Boer cross bucks were divided into two groups and subjected to either halal slaughter without stunning (HS) or minimal anesthesia prior to slaughter (AS). The blood lost during exsanguination was measured. Residual blood was further quantified by determination of hemoglobin and myoglobin content in longissimus lumborum muscle. Storage stability of the meat was evaluated by microbiological analysis and lipid oxidation. Blood loss at exsanguination, residual hemoglobin and lipid oxidation were not significantly different (p>0.05) between HS and AS. Lactic acid bacteria was the only microbe that was significantly elevated after 24h of storage at 4\xc2\xb0C in the AS group. In conclusion, slaughtering goats under minimal anesthesia or fully conscious did not affect bleeding efficiency and keeping quality of goat meat. labels: #Globins'
b'Oxygen (O2) is required for cytochrome P450 (CYP)-dependent drug metabolism. Cytoglobin (CYGB) is a unique globin expressed exclusively in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). However, its role in O2-dependent metabolism in neighboring hepatocytes remains unknown. This study provides evidence that CYGB in HSCs is involved in acetaminophen (N-acetyl-p-aminophenol; APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity. Serum alanine aminotransferase levels were higher in wild-type mice than in Cygb-null mice. Wild-type mice exhibited more severe hepatocyte necrosis around the central vein area compared with Cygb-null mice, thus indicating that CYGB deficiency protects against APAP-induced liver damage. Although no difference in the hepatic expression of CYP2E1, a key enzyme involved in APAP toxicity, was observed between wild-type and Cygb-null mice, the serum levels of the APAP metabolites cysteinyl-APAP and N-acetyl-cysteinyl-APAP were decreased in Cygb-null mice, suggesting reduced APAP metabolism in the livers of Cygb-null mice. In primary cultures, APAP-induced hepatocyte damage was increased by co-culturing with wild-type HSCs but not with Cygb-null HSCs. In addition, cell damage was markedly alleviated under low O2 condition (5% O2), suggesting the requirement of O2 for APAP toxicity. Carbon tetrachloride-induced liver injury (CYP2E1-dependent), but not lipopolysaccharide/D-galactosamine-induced injury (CYP2E1-independent), was similarly alleviated in Cygb-null mice. Considering the function of CYGB as O2 carrier, these results strongly support the hypothesis that HSCs are involved in the CYP2E1-mediated xenobiotic activation by augmenting O2 supply to hepatocytes. In conclusion, CYGB in HSCs contributes to the CYP-mediated metabolism of xenobiotics in hepatocytes by supplying O2 for enzymatic oxidation. labels: #Globins'
b'Besides other mechanism(s) 17\xce\xb2-estradiol (E2) facilitates neuronal survival by increasing, via estrogen receptor \xce\xb2 (ER\xce\xb2), the levels of neuroglobin (NGB) an anti-apoptotic protein. In contrast, E2 could exert protective effects in cancer cells by activating apoptosis when the ER\xce\xb2 level prevails on that of ER\xce\xb1 as in colon cancer cell lines. These apparently contrasting results raise the possibility that E2-induced NGB up-regulation could regulate the ER\xce\xb2 activities shunning this receptor subtype to trigger an apoptotic cascade in neurons but not in non-neuronal cells. Here, human colorectal adenocarcinoma cell line (DLD-1) that only expresses ER\xce\xb2 and HeLa cells transiently transfected with ER\xce\xb2 encoding vector has been used to verify this hypothesis. In addition, neuroblastoma SK-N-BE cells were used as positive control. Surprisingly, E2 also induced NGB up-regulation, in a dose- and time-dependent manner, in DLD-1 cells. The ER\xce\xb2-mediated activation of p38/MAPK was necessary for this E2 effect. E2 induced NGB re-allocation in mitochondria where, subsequently to an oxidative stress injury (i.e., 100\xce\xbcM H2O2), NGB interacted with cytochrome c preventing its release into the cytosol and the activation of an apoptotic cascade. As a whole, these results demonstrate that E2-induced NGB up-regulation could act as an oxidative stress sensor, which does not oppose to the pro-apoptotic E2 effect in ER\xce\xb2-containing colon cancer cells unless a rise of oxidative stress occurs. These results support the concept that oxidative stress plays a critical role in E2-induced carcinogenesis and further open an important scenario to develop novel therapeutic strategies that target NGB against E2-related cancers. labels: #Globins'
b'Researchers are regularly interested in interpreting the multipartite structure of data entities according to their functional relationships. Data is often heterogeneous with intricately hidden inner structure. With limited prior knowledge, researchers are likely to confront the problem of transforming this data into knowledge. We develop a new framework, called heat-passing, which exploits intrinsic similarity relationships within noisy and incomplete raw data, and constructs a meaningful map of the data. The proposed framework is able to rank, cluster, and visualize the data all at once. The novelty of this framework is derived from an analogy between the process of data interpretation and that of heat transfer, in which all data points contribute simultaneously and globally to reveal intrinsic similarities between regions of data, meaningful coordinates for embedding the data, and exemplar data points that lie at optimal positions for heat transfer. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the heat-passing framework for robustly partitioning the complex networks, analyzing the globin family of proteins and determining conformational states of macromolecules in the presence of high levels of noise. The results indicate that the methodology is able to reveal functionally consistent relationships in a robust fashion with no reference to prior knowledge. The heat-passing framework is very general and has the potential for applications to a broad range of research fields, for example, biological networks, social networks and semantic analysis of documents. labels: #Globins'
b'We report the structural and biochemical characterization of GLB-33, a putative neuropeptide receptor that is exclusively expressed in the nervous system of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This unique chimeric protein is composed of a 7-transmembrane domain (7TM), GLB-33 7TM, typical of a G-protein-coupled receptor, and of a globin domain (GD), GLB-33 GD. Comprehensive sequence similarity searches in the genome of the parasitic nematode, Ascaris suum, revealed a chimeric protein that is similar to a Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-amide neuropeptide receptor. The three-dimensional structures of the separate domains of both species and of the full-length proteins were modeled. The 7TM domains of both proteins appeared very similar, but the globin domain of the A. suum receptor surprisingly seemed to lack several helices, suggesting a novel truncated globin fold. The globin domain of C. elegans GLB-33, however, was very similar to a genuine myoglobin-type molecule. Spectroscopic analysis of the recombinant GLB-33 GD showed that the heme is pentacoordinate when ferrous and in the hydroxide-ligated form when ferric, even at neutral pH. Flash-photolysis experiments showed overall fast biphasic CO rebinding kinetics. In its ferrous deoxy form, GLB-33 GD is capable of reversibly binding O2 with a very high affinity and of reducing nitrite to nitric oxide faster than other globins. Collectively, these properties suggest that the globin domain of GLB-33 may serve as a highly sensitive oxygen sensor and/or as a nitrite reductase. Both properties are potentially able to modulate the neuropeptide sensitivity of the neuronal transmembrane receptor. labels: #Globins'
b"Heme-A\xce\xb2 complexes are known to produce toxic partially reduced oxygen species (PROS), catalyze oxidation of neurotransmitters and have been associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neuroglobin (Ngb) play a crucial neuroprotective role against oxidative damage, hypoxic injuries, stroke and apoptosis of neuronal cells. In this study, the interaction of heme-A\xce\xb2 with apoNeuroglobin (apoNgb) has been investigated using a combination of spectroscopic techniques. Absorption and resonance Raman data confirm that apoNgb can uptake heme from heme-A\xce\xb2 and constitute a six-coordinate low-spin ferric heme-active site identical to that of Ngb. ApoNgb can also uptake heme from reduced heme-A\xce\xb2 resulting in the formation of ferrous Ngb. The rate of the heme transfer reaction has been found to be of the order of 10(6) M(-1) s(-1). The reaction is faster for oxidized heme-A\xce\xb2 than the reduced form. The amount of PROS formation by heme-A\xce\xb2 complexes has been found to diminish drastically after reaction with apoNgb. ApoNgb can also sequester ligand-bound heme from heme-A\xce\xb2, e.g., the CO-bound heme from heme-A\xce\xb2-CO complex resulting in the formation of Ngb-CO complex. Additionally, ApoNgb can sequester heme from self-assembled monolayer (SAM) of surface-bound heme-A\xce\xb2 formed over Au surface. This heme sequestration by apoNgb from heme-A\xce\xb2 not only diminishes heme-induced toxicity but more significantly it produces Ngb which has well-documented neuroprotective role and can thereby potentially reduce risks associated with AD. labels: #Globins"
b'Protein-based nanoparticles hold great promises in both preclinical and clinical practices, such as oncology diagnosis and treatment, because of their high biocompatibility and biodegradability. However, the complicated preparation and lack of targeting specific cells or tissues may limit their further uses. To overcome these limitations, we developed a novel replacing method for preparing dual-functional protein nanocarrier, such that one function is capable of encapsulating small molecule into protein, whereas the other function is cable of recognizing CD163 receptor [hemoglobin (Hb) scavenger receptor]. In this study, Hb was chosen as the targeting drug carrier. First, the heme group in the Hb was removed and replaced by paclitaxel (PTX) to form nanoparticles (Gb-NPs-PTX). The resulted Gb-NPs-PTX showed spherical shape and their diameter could be controlled in the range of 120-160 nm by altering the ratio of PTX to Hb. The binding activity of Gb-NPs-PTX to CD163 was confirmed by cell uptake in CD163(+) Chinese hamster ovary cells. Results in vivo also showed a CD163-dependent tissue accumulation of Gb-NPs-PTX in mice. In summary, by using the novel replacing method, PTX could be easily encapsulated into Hb nanoparticles and the targeting effects of Hb could also be kept. labels: #Globins'
b'The energy-yielding pathways that provide the large amounts of metabolic energy required by inner ear sensorineural cells are poorly understood. Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a neuron-specific hemoprotein of the globin family, which is suggested to be involved in oxidative energy metabolism. Here, we present quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR, in situ hybridization, immunohistochemical, and Western blot evidence that neuroglobin is highly expressed in the mouse and rat cochlea. For primary cochlea neurons, Ngb expression is limited to the subpopulation of type I spiral ganglion cells, those which innervate inner hair cells, while the subpopulation of type II spiral ganglion cells which innervate the outer hair cells do not express Ngb. We further investigated Ngb distribution in rat, mouse, and human auditory brainstem centers, and found that the cochlear nuclei and superior olivary complex (SOC) also express considerable amounts of Ngb. Notably, the majority of olivocochlear neurons, those which provide efferent innervation of outer hair cells as identified by neuronal tract tracing, were Ngb-immunoreactive. We also observed that neuroglobin in the SOC frequently co-localized with neuronal nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme responsible for nitric oxide production. Our findings suggest that neuroglobin is well positioned to play an important physiologic role in the oxygen homeostasis of the peripheral and central auditory nervous system, and provides the first evidence that Ngb signal differentiates the central projections of the inner and outer hair cells. labels: #Globins'
b'PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Neuroglobin (NGB) is a known neuroprotector and is up-regulated after ischaemia-hypoxia brain damage. However, no studies have investigated NGB levels after ischaemic pre-conditioning and middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO).METHODS AND PROCEDURES: This study subjected rats to different ischaemic pre-conditioning and MCAO regimens and assayed NGB levels in the hippocampus, cortex and hypothalamus by immunohistochemistry, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot.MAIN OUTCOMES AND RESULTS: After 30 minutes of ischaemic pre-conditioning, the number of NGB-positive cells and NGB levels in the hippocampus, cortex and hypothalamus were increased with longer reperfusion times, peaked at 24-hours reperfusion and slightly decreased at 48-hours reperfusion. Similarly, the mRNA and protein expression levels of NGB were also up-regulated; they peaked at 24-hours reperfusion and slightly decreased at 48-hours reperfusion.CONCLUSIONS: NGB may regulate neuroprotection against ischaemia and hypoxia-mediated brain damage after ischaemic pre-conditioning. The results provide additional evidence supporting the utility of ischaemic pre-conditioning and help elucidate its potential regulatory mechanism. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered globin with preferential localization to neurons. Growing evidence indicates that Ngb has distinct physiological functions separate from the oxygen storage and transport roles of other globins, such as hemoglobin and myoglobin. We found increased ATP production and decreased glycolysis in Ngb-overexpressing immortalized murine hippocampal cell line (HT-22), in parallel with inhibition of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling and activation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC). In addition, lipid and glycogen content was increased in Ngb-overexpressing HT-22 cells. AMPK signaling was also inhibited in the brain and heart from Ngb-overexpressing transgenic mice. Although Ngb overexpression did not change glycogen content in whole brain, glycogen synthase was activated in cortical neurons of Ngb-overexpressing mouse brain and Ngb overexpression primary neurons. Moreover, lipid and glycogen content was increased in hearts derived from Ngb-overexpressing mice. These findings suggest that Ngb functions as a metabolic regulator and enhances cellular anabolism through the inhibition of AMPK signaling. labels: #Globins'
b'Spinal manipulation (SM) is a manual therapy technique frequently applied to treat musculoskeletal disorders because of its analgesic effects. It is defined by a manual procedure involving a directed impulse to move a joint past its physiologic range of movement (ROM). In this sense, to exceed the physiologic ROM of a joint could trigger tissue damage, which might represent an adverse effect associated with spinal manipulation. The present work tries to explore the presence of tissue damage associated with SM through the damage markers analysis. Thirty healthy subjects recruited at the University of Ja\xc3\xa9n were submitted to a placebo SM (control group; n = 10), a single lower cervical manipulation (cervical group; n = 10), and a thoracic manipulation (n = 10). Before the intervention, blood samples were extracted and centrifuged to obtain plasma and serum. The procedure was repeated right after the intervention and two hours after the intervention. Tissue damage markers creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), C-reactive protein (CRP), troponin-I, myoglobin, neuron-specific enolase (NSE), and aldolase were determined in samples. Statistical analysis was performed through a 3 \xc3\x97 3 mixed-model ANOVA. Neither cervical manipulation nor thoracic manipulation did produce significant changes in the CPK, LDH, CRP, troponin-I, myoglobin, NSE, or aldolase blood levels. Our data suggest that the mechanical strain produced by SM seems to be innocuous to the joints and surrounding tissues in healthy subjects. labels: #Globins'
b'Earlier kinetics studies on cytoglobin did not assign functional properties to specific structural forms. Here, we used defined monomeric and dimeric forms and cysteine mutants to show that an intramolecular disulfide bond (C38-C83) alters the dissociation rate constant of the intrinsic histidine (H81) (\xe2\x88\xbc1000 fold), thus controlling binding of extrinsic ligands. Through time-resolved spectra we have unequivocally assigned CO binding to hexa- and penta-coordinate forms and have made direct measurement of histidine rebinding following photolysis. We present a model that describes how the cysteine redox state of the monomer controls histidine dissociation rate constants and hence extrinsic ligand binding. labels: #Globins'
b"A needlestick injury to cerebral cortex causes immediate damage along the track of the needle (haemorrhage, cell death) and sequelae (the formation of amyloid-positive plaques, extracellular deposits of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, microglial proliferation, astrogliosis) that are long lasting, and mimic the neuropathology associated with Alzheimer's disease. We report here that the same injury also elicits a distinctive response in the cortex flanking (up to 1mm from) the direct injury. Needlestick injury was made in the neo- and hippocampal cortex of young (3 months) healthy Sprague-Dawley rats. After survival times of up to 7d, the response of the cortex was assessed with histology, immunohistochemistry and stereology. Uptake of FluoroJade B at 1d survival and labelling for 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) gave measures of membrane damage; labelling for 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHDG) gave a measure of DNA damage, and labelling with the AT8 antibody gave a measure of the hyperphosphorylation of tau. Two probes, for neuroglobin and basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2), gave measures of a self-protective response in the tissue. Results indicate that neurones in the flanking region are damaged by the nearby lesion, and within 1d upregulate self-protective mechanisms. Over the next 6d survival, evidence of neuronal damage reduces markedly. In summary, cells in the region flanking a lesion are stressed by the lesion, and react to the stress with a self-protective response, which prevents their death. This response may be an important, previously unrecognised feature of brain tissue close to a focus of stress, such as a microhaemorrhage. labels: #Globins"
b'1-Bromopropane (1-BP) is used as a substitute for ozone-depleting solvents (ODS) in industrial applications. 1-BP could display central nervous system (CNS) neurotoxicity manifested by cognitive dysfunction. Neuroglobin (Ngb) is an endogenous neuroprotectant and is predominantly expressed in the nervous system. The present study aimed to investigate Ngb involvement in CNS neurotoxicity induced by 1-BP in rats. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 5 groups (n=14) and treated with 0, 100, 200, 400 and 800 mg/kg bw 1-BP, respectively, by gavage for consecutive 12 days. Rats displayed cognitive dysfunction dose-dependently through Morris water maze (MWM) test. Significant neuron loss in layer 5 of the prelimbic cortex (PL) was observed. Moreover, 1-BP decreased Ngb protein level in cerebral cortex and Ngb decrease was significantly positively correlated with cognitive dysfunction. Glutathione (GSH) content, GSH/oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio and glutamate cysteine ligase (GCL) activity decreased in cerebral cortex, coupled with the increase in GSSG content. GSH and GSH/GSSG ratio decrease were significantly positively correlated with cortical Ngb decrease. Additionally, levels of N-epsilon-hexanoyl-lysine (HEL) and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) modified proteins in cerebral cortex of 1-BP-treated rats increased significantly. In conclusion, it was suggested that 1-BP resulted in decreased endogenous neuroprotectant Ngb in cerebral cortex, which might play an important role in CNS neurotoxicity induced by 1-BP and that 1-BP-induced oxidative stress in cerebral cortex might partly be responsible for Ngb decrease. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a six-coordinate globin that can catalyze the reduction of nitrite to nitric oxide. Although this reaction is common to heme proteins, the molecular interactions in the heme pocket that regulate this reaction are largely unknown. We have shown that the H64L Ngb mutation increases the rate of nitrite reduction by 2000-fold compared to that of wild-type Ngb [Tiso, M., et al. (2011) J. Biol. Chem. 286, 18277-18289]. Here we explore the effect of distal heme pocket mutations on nitrite reduction. For this purpose, we have generated mutations of Ngb residues Phe28(B10), His64(E7), and Val68(E11). Our results indicate a dichotomy in the reactivity of deoxy five- and six-coordinate globins toward nitrite. In hemoglobin and myoglobin, there is a correlation between faster rates and more negative potentials. However, in Ngb, reaction rates are apparently related to the distal pocket volume, and redox potential shows a poor relationship with the rate constants. This suggests a relationship between the nitrite reduction rate and heme accessibility in Ngb, particularly marked for His64(E7) mutants. In five-coordinate globins, His(E7) facilitates nitrite reduction, likely through proton donation. Conversely, in Ngb, the reduction mechanism does not rely on the delivery of a proton from the histidine side chain, as His64 mutants show the fastest reduction rates. In fact, the rate observed for H64A Ngb (1120 M(-1) s(-1)) is to the best of our knowledge the fastest reported for a heme nitrite reductase. These differences may be related to a differential stabilization of the iron-nitrite complexes in five- and six-coordinate globins. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a recently discovered heme-containing protein located predominantly in the mammalian brain. This paper for the first time presents the data on neuroglobin distribution in human cerbellum using immunohistochemistry. Neuroglobin immunoreactivity in the cerebellum was found in all the cases studied (n = 7), although its intensity varied. Distinct reaction was found in Purkinje cells and the areas of cerebellar glomeruli. labels: #Globins'
b"Aerobic animals constantly monitor and adapt to changes in O2 levels. The molecular mechanisms involved in sensing O2 are, however, incompletely understood. Previous studies showed that a hexacoordinated globin called GLB-5 tunes the dynamic range of O2-sensing neurons in natural C. elegans isolates, but is defective in the N2 lab reference strain (McGrath et al., 2009; Persson et al., 2009). GLB-5 enables a sharp behavioral switch when O2 changes between 21 and 17%. Here, we show that GLB-5 also confers rapid behavioral and cellular recovery from exposure to hypoxia. Hypoxia reconfigures O2-evoked Ca(2+) responses in the URX O2 sensors, and GLB-5 enables rapid recovery of these responses upon re-oxygenation. Forward genetic screens indicate that GLB-5's effects on O2 sensing require PDL-1, the C. elegans ortholog of mammalian PrBP/PDE6\xce\xb4 protein. In mammals, PDE6\xce\xb4 regulates the traffic and activity of prenylated proteins (Zhang et al., 2004; Norton et al., 2005). PDL-1 promotes localization of GCY-33 and GCY-35, atypical soluble guanylate cyclases that act as O2 sensors, to the dendritic endings of URX and BAG neurons, where they colocalize with GLB-5. Both GCY-33 and GCY-35 are predicted to be prenylated. Dendritic localization is not essential for GCY-35 to function as an O2 sensor, but disrupting pdl-1 alters the URX neuron's O2 response properties. Functional GLB-5 can restore dendritic localization of GCY-33 in pdl-1 mutants, suggesting GCY-33 and GLB-5 are in a complex. Our data suggest GLB-5 and the soluble guanylate cyclases operate in close proximity to sculpt O2 responses. labels: #Globins"
b'Sickle cell disease (SCD), an inherited blood disorder is due to a single amino acid substitution on the beta chain of hemoglobin, and is characterized by anemia, severe infections, acute and chronic pain, and multi-organ damage. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is dedicated to support basic, translational and clinical science research to improve care and ultimately, to find a cure for SCD that causes such suffering. This report provides a detailed analysis of grants funded by the NIH for SCD research in Fiscal Years 2007 through 2013. During this period, the NIH supported 247 de novo grants totaling $272,210,367 that address various aspects of SCD. 83% of these funds supported research project grants investigating the following 5 scientific themes: Pathology of Sickle Red Blood Cells; Globin Gene Expression; Adhesion and Vascular Dysfunction; Neurological Complications and Organ-specific Dysfunction; and Pain Management and Intervention. The remaining 17% of total funds supported career development and training grants; Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grants; large Center grants; and Conference grants. Further analysis showed that the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) is the largest funder of SCD research within NIH with 67% of total grants, contributing 77% of total funds; followed by the National Institute for Digestive Diseases and Kidney (NIDDK) that is funding 19% of grants, contributing 13% of total funds. The remaining 14% of grants totaling 10% of the funds were supported by all other NIH Institutes/Centers (ICs) combined. In summary, the NIH is using multiple funding mechanisms to support a sickle cell disease research agenda that is intended to advance the detection, treatment, and cure of this debilitating genetic disease. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Myoglobin (Mb) and neuroglobin (Ngb) are representative members of pentacoordinated and bis-histidyl, hexacoordinated globins. In spite of their low sequence identity, they show surprisingly similar three-dimensional folds. The ability of Ngb to form a hexacoordinated bis-histidyl complex with the distal HisE7 has a strong impact on ligand affinity. The factors governing such different behaviors have not been completely understood yet, even though they are extremely relevant to establish structure-function relationships within the globin superfamily.METHODS: In this work we generated chimeric proteins by swapping a previously identified regulatory segment - the CD region - and evaluated comparatively the structural and functional properties of the resulting proteins by molecular dynamics simulations, and spectroscopic and kinetic investigations.RESULTS: Our results show that chimeric proteins display heme coordination properties displaced towards those expected for the corresponding CD region. In particular, in the absence of exogenous ligands, chimeric Mb is found as a partially hexacoordinated bis-histidyl species, whereas chimeric Ngb shows a lower equilibrium constant for forming a hexacoordinated bis-histidyl species.CONCLUSIONS: While these results confirm the regulatory role of the CD region for bis-histidyl hexacoordination, they also suggest that additional sources contribute to fine tune the equilibrium. General significance Globins constitute a ubiquitous group of heme proteins widely found in all kingdoms of life. These findings raise challenging questions regarding the structure-function relationships in these proteins, as bis-histidyl hexacoordination emerges as a novel regulatory mechanism of the physiological function of globins. labels: #Globins'
b'Co-treatment of neuroprotective reagents may improve the therapeutic efficacy of hypothermia in protecting neurons during ischemic stroke. This study aimed to find promising drugs that enhance the neuroprotective effect of mild hypothermia (MH). 26 candidate drugs were selected based on different targets. Primary cultured cortical neurons were exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation and reoxygenation (OGD/R) to induce neuronal damage, followed by either single treatment (a drug or MH) or a combination of a drug and MH. Results showed that, compared with single treatment, combination of MH with brain derived neurotrophic factor, glibenclamide, dizocilpine, human urinary kallidinogenase or neuroglobin displayed higher proportion of neuronal cell viability. The latter three drugs also caused less apoptosis rate in combined treatment. Furthermore, co-treatment of those three drugs and MH decreased the level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and intracellular calcium accumulation, as well as stabilized mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), indicating the combined neuroprotective effects are probably via inhibiting mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. Taken together, the study suggests that combined treatment with hypothermia and certain neuroprotective reagents provide a better protection against OGD/R-induced neuronal injury. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Transcriptome analysis of porcine whole blood has several applications, which include deciphering genetic mechanisms for host responses to viral infection and vaccination. The abundance of alpha- and beta-globin transcripts in blood, however, impedes the ability to cost-effectively detect transcripts of low abundance. Although protocols exist for reduction of globin transcripts from human and mouse/rat blood, preliminary work demonstrated these are not useful for porcine blood Globin Reduction (GR). Our objectives were to develop a porcine specific GR protocol and to evaluate the GR effects on gene discovery and sequence read coverage in RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) experiments.RESULTS: A GR protocol for porcine blood samples was developed using RNase H with antisense oligonucleotides specifically targeting porcine hemoglobin alpha (HBA) and beta (HBB) mRNAs. Whole blood samples (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8912) collected in Tempus tubes were used for evaluating the efficacy and effects of GR on RNA-seq. The HBA and HBB mRNA transcripts comprised an average of 46.1% of the mapped reads in pre-GR samples, but those reads reduced to an average of 8.9% in post-GR samples. Differential gene expression analysis showed that the expression level of 11,046 genes were increased, whereas 34 genes, excluding HBA and HBB, showed decreased expression after GR (FDR<0.05). An additional 815 genes were detected only in post-GR samples.CONCLUSIONS: Our porcine specific GR primers and protocol minimize the number of reads of globin transcripts in whole blood samples and provides increased coverage as well as accuracy and reproducibility of transcriptome analysis. Increased detection of low abundance mRNAs will ensure that studies relying on transcriptome analyses do not miss information that may be vital to the success of the study. labels: #Globins'
b'One of the factors affecting the degree of severity in \xce\xb2-thalassemia disease is the presence of unmatched \xce\xb1-hemoglobin chains. Thus, the expression levels of globin genes in reticulocytes of \xce\xb2-thalassemia subjects were measured using quantitative RT-PCR, demonstrating that \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 globin mRNA ratio, as well as levels of \xce\xb3-globin mRNA and Hb F, increased with progressing degree of \xce\xb2 globin synthesis defect. The levels of \xce\xb3-globin mRNA and Hb F could not be directly correlated with severity of \xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E disease due to a low statistical power of this analysis. Higher levels of Hb E were present, however, in clinically mild patients, as compared to moderately severe \xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E subjects. This suggests that in \xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E disease, elevation of Hb E level through enhancing correctly spliced \xce\xb2(E)-globin mRNA offers another approach in ameliorating disease severity. In addition, co-inheritance of \xce\xb1-thalassemia 2 trait in \xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E subjects was associated with milder outcome compared with those with the same \xce\xb2-thalassemia genotypes, confirming the notion of the beneficial effect of a more balanced \xce\xb1:\xce\xb2-globin chain ratio. labels: #Globins'
b'In order to investigate the potential application of blood biomarkers as surrogate indicators of carcinogen-adduct formation in target-specific tissues, temporal formation of benzo[a]pyrene (BaP)-associated DNA adducts, protein adducts, or lipid damage in target tissues such as lung, liver, and kidney was compared with globin adduct formation or plasma lipid damage in blood after continuous intraperitoneal (ip) injection of [(3)H]BaP into female ICR mice for 7 d. Following treatment with [(3)H]BaP, formation of [(3)H]BaP-DNA or -protein adducts in lung, liver, and kidney increased linearly, and persisted thereafter. This finding was similar to the observed effects on globin adduct formation and plasma lipid damage in blood. The lungs contained a higher level of DNA adducts than liver or kidneys during the treatment period. Further, the rate of cumulative adduct formation in lung was markedly greater than that in liver. Treatment with a single dose of [(3)H]BaP indicated that BaP-globin adduct formation and BaP-lipid damage in blood reached a peak 48 h after treatment. Overall, globin adduct formation and lipid damage in blood were significantly correlated with DNA adduct formation in the target tissues. These data suggest that peripheral blood biomarkers, such as BaP-globin adduct formation or BaP-lipid damage, may be useful for prediction of target tissue-specific DNA adduct formation, and for risk assessment after exposure. labels: #Globins'
b'Recently, we reported that human neuroglobin (NGB) is a new player in the signal transduction pathways that lead to 17\xce\xb2-estradiol (E2)-induced neuron survival. Indeed, E2 induces in neuron mitochondria the enhancement of NGB level, which in turn impairs the activation of a pro-apoptotic cascade. Nowadays, the existence of a similar pathway activated by E2 in non-neuronal cells is completely unknown. Here, the role of E2-induced NGB upregulation in tumor cells is reported. E2 induced the upregulation of NGB in a dose- and time-dependent manner in MCF-7, HepG2, SK-N-BE, and HeLa cells transfected with estrogen receptor \xce\xb1 (ER\xce\xb1), whereas E2 was unable to modulate the NGB expression in the ER\xce\xb1-devoid HeLa cells. Both transcriptional and extranuclear ER\xce\xb1 signals were required for the E2-dependent upregulation of NGB in MCF-7 and HepG2 cell lines. E2 stimulation modified NGB intracellular localization, inducing a significant reduction of NGB in the nucleus with a parallel increase of NGB in the mitochondria in both HepG2 and MCF-7 cells. Remarkably, E2 pretreatment did not counteract the H2O2-induced caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1) cleavage, as well as Bcl-2 overexpression in MCF-7 and HepG2 cells in which NGB was stably silenced by using shRNA lentiviral particles, highlighting the pivotal role of NGB in E2-induced antiapoptotic pathways in cancer cells. Present results indicate that the E2-induced NGB upregulation in cancer cells could represent a defense mechanism of E2-related cancers rendering them insensitive to oxidative stress. As a whole, these data open new avenues to develop therapeutic strategies against E2-related cancers. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is an emerging tumor suppressor gene silenced by promoter hypermethylation in many human tumors. So far, the precise molecular mechanism underlying its tumor suppressive function remains poorly understood. Here, we identified Cygb as a genotoxic stress-responsive hemoprotein upregulated upon sensing cellular DNA damage. Our studies demonstrated that Cygb physically associates with and stabilizes p53, a key cellular DNA damage signaling factor. We provide evidence that Cygb extends the half-life of p53 by blocking its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. We show that, upon DNA damage, cells overexpressing Cygb displayed proliferation defect by rapid accumulation of p53 and its target gene p21, while Cygb knockdown cells failed to efficiently arrest in G1 phase in response to DNA insult. These results suggest a possible involvement of Cygb in mediating cellular response to DNA damage and thereby contributing in the maintenance of genomic integrity. Our study thus presents a novel insight into the mechanistic role of Cygb in tumor suppression. labels: #Globins'
b'Non photochemical quenching is a fundamental mechanism in photosynthesis, which protects plants against excess excitation energy and is of crucial importance for their survival and fitness. In the last decades hundreds of papers have appeared that describe the role of antenna regulation in protection or the so called qE response. However, the exact quenching site is still obscure. Previously overlooked features of the antenna may provide hints towards the elucidation of its functionality and of the quenching mechanism. Recently it was demonstrated that the catalytic domain of human myoglobin that binds the pigment (i.e. heme) is similar in structure to the domain of the light harvesting complex II of pea that binds Chl a 614 (former known as b3). In addition, it is well accepted that conformational changes of the chlorophyll macrocycle result in reversible changes of fluorescence (the lowest fluorescence corresponds to non planar macrocycle). Here we put forward a hypothesis regarding the molecular mechanism that leads to the formation of a quenching center inside the antenna proteins. Our main suggestion is that a conformational change of helix H5 (known also as helix D) forces conformational changes in the macrocycle of Chl a 614 is implicated in the \xce\x94A535 absorbance change and quenching during photoprotective qE. The specific features (some of them similar to those of heme domain of globins) of the b3 domain account for these traits. The model predicts that antenna proteins having b3 pigments (i.e. LHCII, CP29, CP26) can act as potential quenchers. labels: #Globins'
b"BACKGROUND: The mechanisms by which general anesthetics, including xenon and nitrous oxide, act are only beginning to be discovered. However, structural approaches revealed weak but specific protein-gas interactions.METHODS: To improve knowledge, we performed x-ray crystallography studies under xenon and nitrous oxide pressure in a series of 10 binding sites within four proteins.RESULTS: Whatever the pressure, we show (1) hydrophobicity of the gas binding sites has a screening effect on xenon and nitrous oxide binding, with a threshold value of 83% beyond which and below which xenon and nitrous oxide, respectively, binds to their sites preferentially compared to each other; (2) xenon and nitrous oxide occupancies are significantly correlated respectively to the product and the ratio of hydrophobicity by volume, indicating that hydrophobicity and volume are binding parameters that complement and oppose each other's effects; and (3) the ratio of occupancy of xenon to nitrous oxide is significantly correlated to hydrophobicity of their binding sites.CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that xenon and nitrous oxide obey different binding mechanisms, a finding that argues against all unitary hypotheses of narcosis and anesthesia, and indicate that the Meyer-Overton rule of a high correlation between anesthetic potency and solubility in lipids of general anesthetics is often overinterpreted. This study provides evidence that the mechanisms of gas binding to proteins and therefore of general anesthesia should be considered as the result of a fully reversible interaction between a drug ligand and a receptor as this occurs in classical pharmacology. labels: #Globins"
b'Subterranean mammals spend their lives in dark, unventilated environments that are rich in carbon dioxide and ammonia and low in oxygen. Many of these animals are also long-lived and exhibit reduced aging-associated diseases, such as neurodegenerative disorders and cancer. We sequenced the genome of the Damaraland mole rat (DMR, Fukomys damarensis) and improved the genome assembly of the naked mole rat (NMR, Heterocephalus glaber). Comparative genome analyses, along with the transcriptomes of related subterranean rodents, revealed candidate molecular adaptations for subterranean life and longevity, including a divergent insulin peptide, expression of oxygen-carrying globins in the brain, prevention of high CO2-induced pain perception, and enhanced ammonia detoxification. Juxtaposition of the genomes of DMR and other more conventional animals with the genome of NMR revealed several truly exceptional NMR features: unusual thermogenesis, an aberrant melatonin system, pain insensitivity, and unique processing of 28S rRNA. Together, these genomes and transcriptomes extend our understanding of subterranean adaptations, stress resistance, and longevity. labels: #Globins'
b'The nitrite adducts of globins can potentially bind via O- or N- linkage to the heme iron. We have used EPR (electron paramagnetic resonance) and DFT (density functional theory) to explore these binding modes to myoglobin and hemoglobin. We demonstrate that the nitrite adducts of both globins have detectable EPR signals; we provide an explanation for the difficulty in detecting these EPR features, based on uniaxial state considerations. The EPR and DFT data show that both nitrite linkage isomers can be present at the same time and that the two isomers are readily interconvertible in solution. The millisecond-scale process of nitrite reduction by Hb is investigated in search of the elusive Fe(II)-nitrite adduct. labels: #Globins'
b'Agnathans (jawless vertebrates) occupy a key phylogenetic position for illuminating the evolution of vertebrate anatomy and physiology. Evaluation of the agnathan globin gene repertoire can thus aid efforts to reconstruct the origin and evolution of the globin genes of vertebrates, a superfamily that includes the well-known model proteins hemoglobin and myoglobin. Here, we report a comprehensive analysis of the genome of the sea lamprey (Petromyzon marinus) which revealed 23 intact globin genes and two hemoglobin pseudogenes. Analyses of the genome of the Arctic lamprey (Lethenteron camtschaticum) identified 18 full length and five partial globin gene sequences. The majority of the globin genes in both lamprey species correspond to the known agnathan hemoglobins. Both genomes harbor two copies of globin X, an ancient globin gene that has a broad phylogenetic distribution in the animal kingdom. Surprisingly, we found no evidence for an ortholog of neuroglobin in the lamprey genomes. Expression and phylogenetic analyses identified an ortholog of cytoglobin in the lampreys; in fact, our results indicate that cytoglobin is the only orthologous vertebrate-specific globin that has been retained in both gnathostomes and agnathans. Notably, we also found two globins that are highly expressed in the heart of P. marinus, thus representing functional myoglobins. Both genes have orthologs in L. camtschaticum. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that these heart-expressed globins are not orthologous to the myoglobins of jawed vertebrates (Gnathostomata), but originated independently within the agnathans. The agnathan myoglobin and hemoglobin proteins form a monophyletic group to the exclusion of functionally analogous myoglobins and hemoglobins of gnathostomes, indicating that specialized respiratory proteins for O2 transport in the blood and O2 storage in the striated muscles evolved independently in both lineages. This dual convergence of O2-transport and O2-storage proteins in agnathans and gnathostomes involved the convergent co-option of different precursor proteins in the ancestral globin repertoire of vertebrates. labels: #Globins'
b'Inherited haemoglobinopathies are the most common monogenic diseases, with millions of carriers and patients worldwide. At present, we know several hundred disease-causing mutations on the globin gene clusters, in addition to numerous clinically important trans-acting disease modifiers encoded elsewhere and a multitude of polymorphisms with relevance for advanced diagnostic approaches. Moreover, new disease-linked variations are discovered every year that are not included in traditional and often functionally limited locus-specific databases. This paper presents IthaGenes, a new interactive database of haemoglobin variations, which stores information about genes and variations affecting haemoglobin disorders. In addition, IthaGenes organises phenotype, relevant publications and external links, while embedding the NCBI Sequence Viewer for graphical representation of each variation. Finally, IthaGenes is integrated with the companion tool IthaMaps for the display of corresponding epidemiological data on distribution maps. IthaGenes is incorporated in the ITHANET community portal and is free and publicly available at http://www.ithanet.eu/db/ithagenes. labels: #Globins'
b'Cyanobacterial bloom, a common phenomenon nowadays often results in the depletion of dissolved oxygen (hypoxia) and releases microcystin-RR (MC-RR) in the water. Information on the combined effects of MC-RR and hypoxia on the goldfish is lacking, therefore, this study is aimed at evaluating the effect of two doses of MC-RR on the antioxidants and globin mRNA of goldfish under normoxia, hypoxia and reoxygenation. The result showed that MC-RR at both doses (50 and 200 \xce\xbcg kg(-1) body weight) significantly (p<0.05) induced superoxide dismutase activities in the liver and kidney but catalase activities and total antioxidant capacity were low in these organs during hypoxia and reoxygenation compared to normoxia and control. Myoglobin and neuroglobin mRNAs in MC-RR group were significantly induced in the brain only and are believed to protect the brain from oxidative damage. However, other organs were unprotected and extensive damage was observed in the liver cells. Our results clearly demonstrated that MC-RR and hypoxia-reoxygenation transitions were synergistically harmful to the goldfish and could impair its adaptation to hypoxia, especially during reoxygenation. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVES: Neuroglobin (Ngb), an identified globin in vertebrate brain, is a potential novel protective protein against brain ischemia. In our previous study, the human immunodeficiency virus trans-activator of transcription (TAT) protein transduction domain successfully delivered exogenous Ngb into neurons in the mouse, and protected the brain from cerebral ischemia-induced apoptosis. The aim of this study is to investigate the role of TAT-Ngb in attenuating oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) induced apoptosis and to explore the possible mechanism.METHODS: Nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced PC12 cells were divided into (1) the control group, (2) the OGD group (just OGD), (3) the Ngb treatment group (OGD and Ngb treatment), and (4) the TAT-Ngb treatment group (OGD and TAT-Ngb treatment). Cell viability and apoptosis were assessed by the MTT assay and the AnnexinV/propidium iodide (PI) staining, respectively. The mitochondrial transmembrane potential was measured by JC-1 staining. Caspase-3, Bcl-2, Bax, Stat3, Jak2, and Akt were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Trans-activator of transcription effectively delivered Ngb into NGF-induced PC12 cells. Neuroglobin-mediated neuroprotection rescued cultured cells from OGD. We also confirmed previous findings that TAT-Ngb inhibited mitochondrial apoptosis following OGD. Inhibition of apoptosis by Ac-DEVD-CHO showed that caspase-3 was a crucial factor in OGD-induced apoptosis cascades. AG490, a specific Jak2 inhibitor, attenuated the protective effects of TAT-Ngb. The TAT-Ngb promoted expression of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 through the Jak2/Stat3 signal pathway, and inhibited apoptosis by blocking caspase-3 activation, while the Jak-Akt-Stat3 signal network was not involved.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that TAT-Ngb can protect neuron-like cells against OGD-induced apoptosis by activating the Jak2/Stat3 pathway. labels: #Globins'
b'The Amoebozoa represent a clade of unicellular amoeboid organisms that display a wide variety of lifestyles, including free-living and parasitic species. For example, the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has the ability to aggregate into a multicellular fruiting body upon starvation, while the pathogenic amoeba Entamoeba histolytica is a parasite of humans. Globins are small heme proteins that are present in almost all extant organisms. Although several genomes of amoebozoan species have been sequenced, little is known about the phyletic distribution of globin genes within this phylum. Only two flavohemoglobins (FHbs) of D. discoideum have been reported and characterized previously while the genomes of Entamoeba species are apparently devoid of globin genes. We investigated eleven amoebozoan species for the presence of globin genes by genomic and phylogenetic in silico analyses. Additional FHb genes were identified in the genomes of four social amoebas and the true slime mold Physarum polycephalum. Moreover, a single-domain globin (SDFgb) of Hartmannella vermiformis, as well as two truncated hemoglobins (trHbs) of Acanthamoeba castellanii were identified. Phylogenetic evidence suggests that these globin genes were independently acquired via horizontal gene transfer from some ancestral bacteria. Furthermore, the phylogenetic tree of amoebozoan FHbs indicates that they do not share a common ancestry and that a transfer of FHbs from bacteria to amoeba occurred multiple times. labels: #Globins'
b'A protein in the globin-like fold contains six alpha-helices, A, B, E, F, G and H. Among them, the E-to-H helix unit (E, F, G and H helices) forms a compact structure. In this study, we searched similar structures to the E-to-H helix of leghomoglobin in the whole protein structure space using the Dali program. Several similar structures were found in other helical folds, such as KaiA/RbsU domain and Type III secretion system domain. These observations suggest that the E-to-H helix unit may be a common subunit in the whole protein 3D structure space. In addition, the common conserved hydrophobic residues were found among the similar structures to the E-to-H helix unit. Hydrophobic interactions between the conserved residues may stabilize the 3D structures of the unit. We also predicted the possible compact regions of the units using the average distance method. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: To investigate the inducible effect of hemin on exogenous neuroglobin (Ngb) in focal cerebral hypoxic-ischemia in rats.METHODS: 125 healthy SD rats were randomly divided into five groups: sham-operation control group, operation group, hemin treatment group, exogenous Ngb treatment group, and hemin and exogenous Ngb joint treatment group. Twenty-four hours after focal cerebral hypoxic-ischemia, Ngb expression was evaluated by immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and western blot analyses, while the brain water content and infarct volume were examined.RESULTS: Immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and western blot analyses showed more pronounced Ngb expression in the hemin and exogenous Ngb joint operation group than in the hemin or exogenous Ngb individual treatment groups, thus producing significant differences in brain water content and infarct volume (p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Hemin may be beneficial in protecting against focal cerebral hypoxic-ischemia through inducing the expression of exogenous Ngb. labels: #Globins'
b'Globin family was famous for oxygen supply function of its members such as hemoglobin and myoglobin. With the progress of research, several members of this protein family have been proven to play roles in tumors including glioma. Androglobin (ADGB) is a recently identified member of globin family with very few studies about its function. In the present study, we show that ADGB plays an oncogene role in glioma. Lentiviral vector mediated ADGB knockdown inhibited the proliferation of glioma cell lines determined by MTT assay and colony formation assay. ADGB knockdown also increased the apoptosis of glioma cell line U251 assessed by flow cytometry. In addition, western blot showed that ADGB knockdown altered levels of several proteins related to proliferation, survival or apoptosis in U251 cells. These findings suggest ADGB is involved in the progression of glioma in vitro. labels: #Globins'
b'The human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus normally lives as a soil saprophyte. Its environment includes poorly oxygenated substrates that also occur during tissue invasive growth of the fungus in the human host. Up to now, few cellular factors have been identified that allow the fungus to efficiently adapt its energy metabolism to hypoxia. Here, we cultivated A. fumigatus in an O2 -controlled fermenter and analysed its responses to O2 limitation on a minute timescale. Transcriptome sequencing revealed several genes displaying a rapid and highly dynamic regulation. One of these genes was analysed in detail and found to encode fungoglobin, a previously uncharacterized member of the sensor globin protein family widely conserved in filamentous fungi. Besides low O2 , iron limitation also induced transcription, but regulation was not entirely dependent on the two major transcription factors involved in adaptation to iron starvation and hypoxia, HapX and SrbA respectively. The protein was identified as a functional haemoglobin, as binding of this cofactor was detected for the recombinant protein. Gene deletion in A. fumigatus confirmed that haem-binding fungoglobins are important for growth in microaerobic environments with O2 levels far lower than in hypoxic human tissue. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a member of the globin family involved in neuroprotection; it is primarily expressed in the brain and retina of vertebrates. Neuroglobin belongs to the heterogeneous group of hexacoordinate globins that have evolved in animals, plants and bacteria, endowed with the capability of reversible intramolecular coordination, allowing the binding of small gaseous ligands (O2, NO and CO). In a unique fashion among haemoproteins, ligand-binding events in neuroglobin are dependent on the sliding of the haem itself within a preformed internal cavity, as revealed by the crystal structure of its CO-bound derivative. Point mutants of the neuroglobin internal cavity have been engineered and their functional and structural characterization shows that hindering the haem displacement leads to a decrease in CO affinity, whereas reducing the cavity volume without interfering with haem sliding has negligible functional effects. labels: #Globins'
b'For sequences that are highly divergent, there is often insufficient information to infer accurate alignments, and phylogenetic uncertainty may be high. One way to address this issue is to make use of protein structural information, since structures generally diverge more slowly than sequences. In this work, we extend a recently developed stochastic model of pairwise structural evolution to multiple structures on a tree, analytically integrating over ancestral structures to permit efficient likelihood computations under the resulting joint sequence-structure model. We observe that the inclusion of structural information significantly reduces alignment and topology uncertainty, and reduces the number of topology and alignment errors in cases where the true trees and alignments are known. In some cases, the inclusion of structure results in changes to the consensus topology, indicating that structure may contain additional information beyond that which can be obtained from sequences. We use the model to investigate the order of divergence of cytoglobins, myoglobins, and hemoglobins and observe a stabilization of phylogenetic inference: although a sequence-based inference assigns significant posterior probability to several different topologies, the structural model strongly favors one of these over the others and is more robust to the choice of data set. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is the third member of the vertebrate globin family, and the structure was solved as a typical globin fold with a b-type heme. Although it has been proposed that Ngb could be involved in neuroprotection against oxidative stress, the protective mechanism has not been fully identified yet. In order to clarify functions under hypoxic condition, in this study, we focused on the scavenger activity of human Ngb (hNgb) against superoxide. The activity of hNgb for superoxide was evaluated to be 7.4\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for IC50, the half maximal inhibitory concentration. The result indicates that hNgb can be an anti-oxidant, and the value was almost the same as that of ascorbic acid. In addition, we characterized oxidation states of a heme iron in superoxide-treated hNgb with spectroscopic measurements. Superoxide-treated hNgb in the ferric form was readily converted to the oxygenated ferrous form, and the result suggested that ferric hNgb could scavenge superoxide by change of an oxidation state in a heme iron. Moreover, mutational experiments were performed, and the each variant mutated at 46 and 55 positions suggested a disulfide bond between Cys46 and Cys55 could be essential to be sensors for oxidative stress with the direct binding of superoxide. As a consequence, we concluded that redox changes of the heme iron and the disulfide bond could regulate neuroprotective functions of hNgb, and it suggests that hNgb can afford protection against hypoxic and ischemic stress in the brain. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) promotes neuron survival under hypoxic/ischemic conditions. In vivo and in vitro assays provide evidence for redox-regulated functioning of Ngb. On the basis of X-ray crystal structures and our MD simulations, a mechanism for redox control of human Ngb (hNgb) activity via the influence of the CD loop on the active site is proposed. We provide evidence that the CD loop undergoes a strand-to-helix transition when the external environment becomes sufficiently oxidizing, and that this CD loop conformational transition causes critical restructuring of the active site. We postulate that the strand-to-helix mechanics of the CD loop allows hNgb to utilize the lability of Cys46/Cys55 disulfide bonding and of the Tyr44/His64/heme propionate interaction network for redox-controlled functioning of hNgb. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a globin present in the brain and retina of mammals. This hexacoordinated hemoprotein binds small diatomic molecules, albeit with lower affinity compared with other globins. We report here the resonance assignment of murine met-Neuroglobine, free and in complex with cyanide. labels: #Globins'
b'Within the globin superfamily, protoglobins (Pgb) belong phylogenetically to the same cluster of two-domain globin-coupled sensors and single-domain sensor globins. Multiple functional roles have been postulated for Methanosarcina acetivorans Pgb (Ma-Pgb), since the detoxification of reactive nitrogen and oxygen species might co-exist with enzymatic activity(ies) to facilitate the conversion of CO to methane. Here, the nitrite-reductase and peroxynitrite isomerization activities of the CysE20Ser mutant of Ma-Pgb (Ma-Pgb*) are reported and analyzed in parallel with those of related heme-proteins. Kinetics of nitrite-reductase activity of ferrous Ma-Pgb* (Ma-Pgb*-Fe(II)) is biphasic and values of the second-order rate constant for the reduction of NO2- to NO and the concomitant formation of nitrosylated Ma-Pgb*-Fe(II) (Ma-Pgb*-Fe(II)-NO) are k(app1)=\xe2\x80\x8a9.6 \xc2\xb1 0.2 M(-1) s(-1) and k(app2) = 1.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 M(-1) s(-1) (at pH 7.4 and 20 \xc2\xb0C). The k(app1) and k(app2) values increase by about one order of magnitude for each pH unit decrease, between pH 8.3 and 6.2, indicating that the reaction requires one proton. On the other hand, kinetics of peroxynitrite isomerization catalyzed by ferric Ma-Pgb* (Ma-Pgb*-Fe(III)) is monophasic and values of the second order rate constant for peroxynitrite isomerization by Ma-Pgb*-Fe(III) and of the first order rate constant for the spontaneous conversion of peroxynitrite to nitrate are h(app)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3.8 \xc3\x97 10(4 )M(-1) s(-1) and h0 = 2.8 \xc3\x97 10(-1) s(-1) (at pH 7.4 and 20 \xc2\xb0C). The pH-dependence of hon and h0 values reflects the acid-base equilibrium of peroxynitrite (pKa = 6.7 and 6.9, respectively; at 20 \xc2\xb0C), indicating that HOONO is the species that reacts preferentially with the heme-Fe(III) atom. These results highlight the potential role of Pgbs in the biosynthesis and scavenging of reactive nitrogen and oxygen species. labels: #Globins'
b'Growth factor independence 1b (GFI1B) is a DNA binding repressor of transcription with vital functions in hematopoiesis. Gfi1b-null embryos die at midgestation very likely due to defects in erythro- and megakaryopoiesis. To analyze the full functionality of Gfi1b, we used conditionally deficient mice that harbor floxed Gfi1b alleles and inducible (Mx-Cre, Cre-ERT) or erythroid specific (EpoR-Cre) Cre expressing transgenes. In contrast to the germline knockout, EpoR-Cre mediated erythroid specific ablation of Gfi1b allows full gestation, but causes perinatal lethality with very few mice surviving to adulthood. Both the embryonic deletion of Gfi1b by EpoR-Cre and the deletion in adult mice by Mx-Cre or Cre-ERT leads to reduced numbers of erythroid precursors, perturbed and delayed erythroid maturation, anemia and extramedullary erythropoiesis. Global expression analyses showed that the Hba-x, Hbb-bh1 and Hbb-y embryonic globin genes were upregulated in Gfi1b deficient TER119+ fetal liver cells over the gestation period from day 12.5-17.5 p.c. and an increased level of Hbb-bh1 and Hbb-y embryonic globin gene expression was even maintained in adult Gfi1b deficient mice. While the expression of Bcl11a, a regulator of embryonic globin expression was not affected by Gfi1b deficiency, the expression of Gata1 was reduced and the expression of Sox6, also involved in globin switch, was almost entirely lost when Gfi1b was absent. These findings establish Gfi1b as a regulator of embryonic globin expression and embryonic and adult erythroid maturation. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) plays a role in regulating vasodilation in response to changes in local oxygen concentration by altering the rate of nitric oxide (NO) metabolism. Because the reduction of Cygb(Fe(3+)) by a reductant is the control step for Cygb-mediated NO metabolism, we examined the effects of temperature, pH, and heme ligands on the Cygb(Fe(3+)) reduction by ascorbate (Asc) under anaerobic conditions. The standard enthalpy of Cygb(Fe(3+)) reduction by Asc was determined to be 42.4 \xc2\xb1 3.1 kJ/mol. The rate of Cygb(Fe(3+)) reduction increased ~6% per \xc2\xb0C when temperature varied from 35\xc2\xb0C to 40\xc2\xb0C. The yield and the rate of Cygb(Fe(3+)) reduction significantly increases with pH (2-3 times per pH unit), paralleling the formation of the Asc ion (A(2-)) and the increased stability of reduced state of heme iron at high pH values. Heme ligand cyanide (CN(-)) decreased the yield and the rate of Cygb(Fe(3+)) reduction, but ligands CO and NO allowed the process of Cygb(Fe(3+)) reduction to continue to completion. Critical information is provided for modeling and prediction of the process of Cygb-mediated NO metabolism in vessels in a range of temperature and pH values. labels: #Globins'
b'Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) data reveal large differences between the ferric ((13)C-)cyanide complexes of wild-type human neuroglobin (NGB) and its H64Q and F28L point mutants and the cyanide complexes of mammalian myo- and haemoglobin. The point mutations, which involve residues comprising the distal haem pocket in NGB, induce smaller, but still significant changes, related to changes in the stabilization of the cyanide ligand. Furthermore, for the first time, the full (13)C hyperfine tensor of the cyanide carbon of cyanide-ligated horse heart myoglobin (hhMb) was determined using Davies ENDOR (electron nuclear double resonance). Disagreement of these experimental data with earlier predictions based on (13)C NMR data and a theoretical model reveal significant flaws in the model assumptions. The same ENDOR procedure allowed also partial determination of the corresponding (13)C hyperfine tensor of cyanide-ligated NGB and H64QNGB. These (13)C parameters differ significantly from those of cyanide-ligated hhMb and challenge our current theoretical understanding of how the haem environment influences the magnetic parameters obtained by EPR and NMR in cyanide-ligated haem proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Proteins are biosynthesized from N to C terminus before they depart from the ribosome and reach their bioactive state in the cell. At present, very little is known about the evolution of conformation and the free energy of the nascent protein with chain elongation. These parameters critically affect the extent of folding during ribosome-assisted biosynthesis. Here, we address the impact of vectorial amino acid addition on the burial of nonpolar surface area and on the free energy of native-like structure formation in the absence of the ribosomal machinery. We focus on computational predictions on proteins bearing the globin fold, which is known to encompass the 3/3, 2/2, and archaeal subclasses. We find that the burial of nonpolar surface increases progressively with chain elongation, leading to native-like conformations upon addition of the last C-terminal residues, corresponding to incorporation of the last two helices. Additionally, the predicted folding entropy for generating native-like structures becomes less unfavorable at nearly complete chain lengths, suggesting a link between the late burial of nonpolar surface and water release. Finally, the predicted folding free energy takes a progressive favorable dip toward more negative values, as the chain gets longer. These results suggest that thermodynamic stabilization of the native structure of newly synthesized globins during translation in the cell is significantly enhanced as the chain elongates. This is especially true upon departure of the last C-terminal residues from the ribosomal tunnel, which hosts ca., 30-40 amino acids. Hence, we propose that release from the ribosome is a crucial step in the life of single-domain proteins in the cell. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (NGB), a protein highly expressed in the retina, has been shown to be up-regulated to protect neurons from hypoxic and ischemic injuries. It exhibits neuroprotective functions and plays an important role in the survival of neurons. Recent studies show that light-emitting diode (LED) white light emitted significant amounts of blue light (short-wavelength), which may be harmful to retinal cells, but the studies about biomarkers for evaluating the damage from LED white light are still insufficient. In our study, we found that NGB levels in the retina showed a twofold increase and peaked at 1h after a 1-h exposure to blue light (453 nm) which did not cause damage to the retina. However, retinal damage was observed after 2h of blue-light irradiation, which induced an approximate sevenfold increase of NGB levels as confirmed by Western blot and RT-PCR analysis. Immunofluorescence study demonstrated that NGB was predominantly up-regulated in the ganglion cell layer (GCL), plexiform layer (PL) and photoreceptor layer (PRL). We also examined Ngb mRNA and protein expression in the damaged retina induced by light of other wavelengths given equal photon fluxes. The LED red light (625 nm), green light (527 nm) and blue light (453 nm) increased the expression of NGB and caused TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cells, especially in the blue-light group. In addition, a negative correlation between NGB and rhodopsin was observed. These findings suggested that there was a correlation between NGB expression and the severity of the retinal damage, indicating NGB's potential function as a biological marker of retinal damage induced by LED light. labels: #Globins"
b'Loss of cytoglobin is found to be involved in the progression of several human cancers. However, its expression pattern and biological roles in human ovarian cancers are not clear. In this study, we examined cytoglobin expression in 118 archived ovarian cancer specimens using immunohistochemistry. A total of 72 specimens (61.0 %) showed cytoglobin downregulation. cytoglobin downregulation positively correlated with advanced FIGO stage and tumor grade. Cytoglobin plasmid transfection was performed in SKOV3 cell line and siRNA knockdown was carried out in SW626 cell line. MTT, colony formation assay and matrigel invasion assay were carried out to assess the role of cytoglobin on cell proliferation and invasion. Cytoglobin overexpression inhibited cell growth, invasion, cell cycle progression and cyclin D1 expression in SKOV3 cell line and its depletion promoted cell proliferation, invasion, cell cycle transition and cyclin D1 expression. In conclusion, cytoglobin is downregulated in ovarian cancers and associated with advanced stage. Our data provides evidence that cytoglobin regulates the ovarian cancer cell proliferation and invasion. labels: #Globins'
b'CONTEXT: Acute inhalation of combustion smoke adversely affects brain homeostasis and energy metabolism. We previously showed that overexpressed neuroglobin (Ngb), neuron specific globin protein, attenuates the formation of smoke inhalation-induced oxidative DNA damage, in vivo, in the mouse brain, while others reported protection by Ngb in diverse models of brain injury, mainly involving oxidative stress and hypoxic/ischemic insults.OBJECTIVE: To determine to what extent elevated Ngb ameliorates post smoke-inhalation brain bioenergetics and homeostasis in Ngb overexpressing transgenic mouse.METHODS: Smoke inhalation induced changes in bioenergetics were measured in the wild type and Ngb transgene mouse brain. Modulations of mitochondrial respiration were analyzed using the Seahorse XF24 flux analyzer and changes in cytoplasmic energy metabolism were assessed by measuring enzymatic activities and lactate in the course of post smoke recovery.RESULTS: Cortical mitochondria from Ngb transgene, better maintained ATP synthesis-linked oxygen consumption and unlike wild type mitochondria did not increase futile oxygen consumption feeding the proton leak, reflecting lesser smoke-induced mitochondrial compromise. Measurements revealed lesser reduction of mitochondrial ATP content and lesser compensatory increases in cytosolic energy metabolism, involving pyruvate kinase and lactate dehydrogenase activities as well as cytosolic lactate levels. Additionally, induction of c-Fos, the early response gene and key neuronal stress sensor, was attenuated in Ngb transgene compared to wild type brain after smoke.CONCLUSION: Considered together, these differences reflect lesser perturbations produced by acute inhalation of combustion smoke in the Ngb overexpressing mouse, suggesting that Ngb mitigates mitochondrial dysfunction and neurotoxicity and raises the threshold of smoke inhalation-induced brain injury. labels: #Globins'
b"The tissue distribution and function of hemoglobin or myoglobin are well known; however, a newly found cytoglobin (CYGB), which also belongs to the globin family, remains to be characterized. To assess its expression in human malignancies, we sought to screen a number of cell lines originated from many tissues using northern blotting and real time PCR techniques. Unexpectedly, we found that several, but not all, melanoma cell lines expressed CYGB mRNA and protein at much higher levels than cells of other origins. Melanocytes, the primary origin of melanoma, also expressed CYGB at a high level. To verify these observations, immunostaining and immunoblotting using anti-CYGB antibody were also performed. Bisulfite-modified genomic sequencing revealed that several melanoma cell lines that abrogated CYGB expression were found to be epigenetically regulated by hypermethylation in the promoter region of CYGB gene. The RNA interference-mediated knockdown of the CYGB transcript in CYGB expression-positive melanoma cell lines resulted in increased proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Flow cytometric analysis using 2'-, 7'-dichlorofluorescein diacetate (DCFH-DA), an indicator of reactive oxygen species (ROS), revealed that the cellular ROS level may be involved in the proliferative effect of CYGB. Thus, CYGB appears to play a tumor suppressive role as a ROS regulator, and its epigenetic silencing, as observed in CYGB expression-negative melanoma cell lines, might function as an alternative pathway in the melanocyte-to-melanoma transition. labels: #Globins"
b'Globin gene regulation occurs in the context of a maturing erythroid cell, which is undergoing significant changes in chromatin structure and gene expression. There are few model systems available that facilitate studies of globin gene regulation in the context of erythroid maturation. Extensively self-renewing erythroblasts (ESREs) are a nontransformed model of erythroid maturation derived from murine fetal liver or yolk sac. Imaging flow cytometry and RNA-seq studies demonstrate that ESREs functionally and molecularly model erythroid maturation. To address the need for a model system that also recapitulates human globin switching, ESREs were derived from mice transgenic for the complete human \xce\xb2-globin locus (\xce\xb2-yac ESREs). \xce\xb2-yac ESREs express \xce\xb2-globin from the transgenic human locus, with minimal \xce\xb3-globin expression. When treated with hydroxyurea or inhibitors to histone deacetylases, DNA methyltransferases, or the histone demethylase lysine specific demethylase 1 (LSD1), \xce\xb2-Yac ESREs significantly increase their \xce\xb3-globin expression, demonstrating their utility for studying agents that influence maturational globin switching. \xce\xb2-yac ESREs were further used to characterize the secondary effects of LSD1 inhibition on erythroid maturation, with inhibition of LSD1 resulting in altered cell and nuclear size, prolonged Kit expression, and decreased rates of enucleation consistent with impaired maturation. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that \xce\xb2-yac ESREs have significant utility for identifying modulators of maturational globin switching as well as for studying the broader role of those modulators in erythroid maturation. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin plays an important function in the supply of oxygen in nervous tissues. In human neuroglobin, a cysteine at position 46 in the loop connecting the C and D helices of the globin fold is presumed to form an intramolecular disulfide bond with Cys55. Rupture of this disulfide bridge stabilizes bi-histidyl haem hexacoordination, causing an overall decrease in the affinity for oxygen. Here, the first X-ray structure of wild-type human neuroglobin is reported at 1.74\xe2\x80\x85\xc3\x85 resolution. This structure provides a direct observation of two distinct conformations of the CD region containing the intramolecular disulfide link and highlights internal cavities that could be involved in ligand migration and/or are necessary to enable the conformational transition between the low and high oxygen-affinity states following S-S bond formation. labels: #Globins'
b'A laboratory-made INSTCoated fused-silica capillary has been newly used for CE separation of four mixtures of proteins in sodium phosphate BGEs at pH 3.0 and 2.5, respectively. The obtained separation efficiencies range from 145,000 theoretical plates per meter for myoglobin to 1,216,000 m(-1) for lysozyme. A total of 49-89% of the number of theoretical plates was obtained in a commercial polyvinyl alcohol coated capillary compared to the INSTCoated capillary under the same experimental conditions, 0-86% was obtained in a laboratory polyacrylamide-coated capillary, and only 0-6% was obtained in an uncoated fused-silica capillary. The RSD values for the intraday repeatability for an INSTCoated capillary were 0.1-1.0% (migration time) and 0.3-2.4% (peak area); RSD values for the interday repeatability in the same capillary are 0.6-1.4% (migration time) and 2.4-5.5% (peak area); RSD values for interday repeatability between different capillaries equaled 1.7-2.1% (migration time) and 2.8-10.9% (peak area). The INSTCoated capillary has been further used for rapid determination of globin chains isolated from red blood cells. A separation of \xce\xb1 and \xce\xb2 chains prepared from adult blood has been completed in 3 min with a peak resolution of 1.3, and the separation of \xce\xb1 and (G)\xce\xb3 chains prepared from newborn blood took 3 min with a peak resolution of 3.6. labels: #Globins'
b'The current study was performed to evaluate the mechanisms and therapeutic effects of overexpressing neuroglobin (Ngb) on spinal cord injury (SCI). Adeno-associated virus (AAV) was injected in the T12 section 7 days before SCI. Animals were randomly divided into four groups: a sham group, a vehicle group, an AAV-EGFP group and an AAV-Ngb group. Recovery of hind limb locomotor function was determined during the 3-week post operation period by the Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan locomotor rating scale. At 24 h after SCI and at the end of the study, the segments of spinal cord, centered with the lesion site were harvested for histopathological analysis. Immunofluorescence was performed using antibodies to recognize neuN in the lesion sections. At 24 h after SCI, the spinal cord tissue samples were removed to analyze tissue concentrations of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA). Apoptotic cells were assessed using a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase, dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) kit. The expression of bcl-2, bax, cytochrome c, and cleaved caspase-3, were determined by Western blot assay and immunostaining analysis. The results showed that animals overexpressing Ngb had significantly greater recovery of locomotor function, less neuronal loss and fewer apoptotic cells. In addition, overexpressing Ngb significantly increased bcl-2 expression and SOD level, decreased bax expression, attenuated the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to the cytosol fraction, and reduced the activity of caspase-3 and MDA level after SCI. These findings suggest, that overexpressing Ngb can significantly improve the recovery of locomotor function. This neuroprotective effect may be associated with the inhibition of neural apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway. labels: #Globins'
b'There is a significant need for novel treatments that will improve traumatic brain injury (TBI) outcomes. One potential neuroprotective mechanism is to increase oxygen binding proteins such as neuroglobin. Neuroglobin has a high affinity for oxygen, is an effective free radical scavenger, and is neuroprotective within the brain following hypoxia and ischemia. The purpose of this study was to determine whether neuroglobin overexpression improves sensorimotor outcomes following TBI in transgenic neuroglobin overexpressing (NGB) mice. Additional study aims were to determine if and when an endogenous neuroglobin response occurred following TBI in wild-type (WT) mice, and in what brain regions and cell types the response occurred. Controlled cortical impact (CCI) was performed in adult (5 month) C57/BL6 WT mice, and NGB mice constitutively overexpressing neuroglobin via the chicken beta actin promoter coupled with the cytomegalovirus distal enhancer. The gridwalk task was used for sensorimotor testing of both WT and NGB mice, prior to injury, and at 2, 3, and 7 days post-TBI. NGB mice displayed significant reductions in the average number of foot faults per minute walking at 2, 3, and 7 days post-TBI when compared to WT mice at each time point. Neuroglobin mRNA expression was assessed in the injured cortex of WT mice prior to injury, and at 1, 3, 7, and 14 days post-TBI using quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Neuroglobin mRNA was significantly increased at 7 days post-TBI. Immunostaining showed neuroglobin primarily localized to neurons and glial cells in the injured cortex and ipsilateral hippocampus of WT mice, while neuroglobin was present in all brain regions of NGB mice at 7 days post-TBI. These results showed that overexpression of neuroglobin reduced sensorimotor deficits following TBI, and that an endogenous increase in neuroglobin expression occurs during the subacute period. Increasing neuroglobin expression through novel therapeutic interventions during the acute period after TBI may improve recovery. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cgb) was discovered a decade ago and is a fourth member of the group of hexacoordinated globin-folded proteins. Although some crystal structures have been reported and several functions have been proposed for Cgb, its physiological role remains uncertain. In this study, we measured cyanide binding to the ferric state of the wild-type (WT) Cgb, and found that the binding consisted of multiple steps. These results indicated that Cgb may be comprised of several forms, and the presence of monomers, dimers, and tetramers was subsequently confirmed by SDS-PAGE. Remarkably, each species contained two distinguishable forms, and, in the monomer, analyses of alternative cysteine states suggested the presence of an intramolecular disulfide bond (monomer SS form) and a structure with unpaired thiol groups (monomer SH form). These confirmed that forms were separated by gel-exclusion chromatography, and that the cyanide binding of the separated fractions was again measured; they showed different affinities for cyanide, with the monomer fraction showing the highest affinity. In addition, the ferrous state in each fraction showed distinct carbon monoxide (CO)-binding properties, and the affinities for cyanide and CO suggested a linear correlation. Furthermore, we also prepared several variants involving the two cysteine residues. The C38S and C83S variants showed a binding affinity for cyanide similar to the value for the monomer SH form, and hence the fraction with the highest affinity for exogenous ligands was designated as a monomer SS form. We concluded that polymerization could be a mechanism that triggers the exertion of various physiological functions of this protein and that an appropriate disulfide bond between the two cysteine residues was critical for regulating the binding affinity of Cgb, which can act as a ROS scavenger, for exogenous ligands. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (NGB) is considered as an endogenous neuroprotective molecule against stroke, since the protein alleviates the adverse effects of hypoxic and ischemic insults. We previously demonstrated the functional link between NGB and mitochondria since it is required for respiratory chain function. Thus, here, we evaluated the relevance of this effect in the Harlequin (Hq) mouse strain, which exhibits retinal ganglion cell (RGC) loss and optic atrophy due to a respiratory chain complex I (CI) defect. A twofold decrease of NGB amounts was observed in Hq retinas. We constructed a recombinant adeno-associated virus which combines to the mouse NGB open reading frame, its 5' and 3'UTR, for guarantying mRNA stability and translation capacity. The vector was administrated intravitreally to Hq mice and NGB expression was stable for up to 7 months without negative effect on retinal architecture or function. On the contrary, RGCs and their axons were substantially preserved from degeneration; consequently, CI activity in optic nerves was protected conferring improvements in vision. Hence, we established that NGB prevents respiratory chain impairment, therefore, protecting visual function otherwise compromised by mitochondrial energetic failure. labels: #Globins"
b'It has recently been shown that aqueous solutions of tetrapropylammonium chloride and sulphate salts destabilize the folded conformation of Trp-peptides (Dempsey et al., 2011). This result is rationalized by the application of a statistical thermodynamic approach (Graziano, 2010). It is shown that the magnitude of the solvent-excluded volume effect, the main contribution for the native state stability, decreases in both aqueous 2 M TPACl solution and aqueous 1 M TPA2SO4 solution. This happens because TPA(+) ions are so large in size and interact so weakly with water molecules, due to their very low charge density, to be able to counteract the electrostrictive effect of chloride and sulphate ions on the water structure, so that the density of their aqueous solutions is smaller or only slightly larger than that of water. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: The molecular profile of circulating blood can reflect physiological and pathological events occurring in other tissues and organs of the body and delivers a comprehensive view of the status of the immune system. Blood has been useful in studying the pathobiology of many diseases. It is accessible and easily collected making it ideally suited to the development of diagnostic biomarker tests. The blood transcriptome has a high complement of globin RNA that could potentially saturate next-generation sequencing platforms, masking lower abundance transcripts. Methods to deplete globin mRNA are available, but their effect has not been comprehensively studied in peripheral whole blood RNA-Seq data. In this study we aimed to assess technical variability associated with globin depletion in addition to assessing general technical variability in RNA-Seq from whole blood derived samples.RESULTS: We compared technical and biological replicates having undergone globin depletion or not and found that the experimental globin depletion protocol employed removed approximately 80% of globin transcripts, improved the correlation of technical replicates, allowed for reliable detection of thousands of additional transcripts and generally increased transcript abundance measures. Differential expression analysis revealed thousands of genes significantly up-regulated as a result of globin depletion. In addition, globin depletion resulted in the down-regulation of genes involved in both iron and zinc metal ion bonding.CONCLUSIONS: Globin depletion appears to meaningfully improve the quality of peripheral whole blood RNA-Seq data, and may improve our ability to detect true biological variation. Some concerns remain, however. Key amongst them the significant reduction in RNA yields following globin depletion. More generally, our investigation of technical and biological variation with and without globin depletion finds that high-throughput sequencing by RNA-Seq is highly reproducible within a large dynamic range of detection and provides an accurate estimation of RNA concentration in peripheral whole blood. High-throughput sequencing is thus a promising technology for whole blood transcriptomics and biomarker discovery. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVES: Lung cancer is the most fatal cancer in the developed world due to presence of metastases at time of diagnosis. The aim of this study is to examine DNA hypermethylation in sputum compared to sputum cytology for the diagnosis of lung cancer. A novel risk analysis is introduced, using the distinction between diagnostic and risk markers.METHODS: Two independent sets were randomly composed from a prospectively collected sputum bank (Set 1: n = 98 lung cancer patients, n = 90 controls; Set 2: n = 60 lung cancer patients, n = 445 controls). Sputum cytology was performed for all samples. The following DNA hypermethylation markers were tested in both sets: RASSF1A, APC and cytoglobin (CYGB). Two statistical analyses were conducted: multivariate logistic regression and a risk classification model based on post-test probabilities.RESULTS: In multivariate analysis, RASSF1A was the best of the three markers in discriminating lung cancer cases from controls in both sets (sensitivity 41-52%, specificity 94-96%). The risk model showed that 36% of lung cancer patients were defined as "high risk" (\xe2\x89\xa5 60% chance on lung cancer) based on RASSF1A hypermethylation in Set 1. The model was reproducible in Set 2. Risk markers (APC, CYGB) have less diagnostic value. Sensitivity of cytology for lung cancer diagnosis was 22%. RASSF1A hypermethylation yielded a sensitivity of 45%. The combined sensitivity for RASSF1A with cytological diagnosis increased to 52% with similar specificity (94%).CONCLUSION: In a diagnostic setting, hypermethylation analysis in sputum is possible when a diagnostic marker is used. However, risk markers are insufficient for this purpose. labels: #Globins'
b'On a global scale, the frequencies and magnitudes of hypoxic events in coastal and estuarine waters have increased dramatically over the past 20 years. Fish populations are suitable indicators for the assessment of the quality of aquatic ecosystems, as they are omnipresent and often comprise a variety of different lifestyles and adaption strategies. We have investigated on the molecular level the impact of hypoxia on two fish species typical of European estuaries. We monitored the expression of eleven putatively hypoxia-responsive genes by means of quantitative real-time RT-PCR in brains, gills and hearts of the ruffe (Gymnocephalus cernua) and the flounder (Platichthys flesus). We first investigated the effect of naturally occurring hypoxia in the Elbe estuary. In a second approach, expression changes in the response to hypoxia were monitored under controlled laboratory conditions. The genes that showed the strongest effect were two respiratory proteins, myoglobin and neuroglobin, as well as the apoptosis enzyme caspase 3. As previously observed in other fish, myoglobin, which was considered to be muscle-specific, was found in brain and gills as well. Comparison of field and laboratory studies showed that--with the exception of the heart of flounder--that mRNA levels of the selected genes were about the same, suggesting that laboratory conditions reflect natural conditions. Likewise, trends of gene expression changes under hypoxia were the same, although hypoxia response was more pronounced in the Elbe estuary. In general, the flounder displayed a stronger response to hypoxia than the ruffe, suggesting that the flounder is more susceptible to hypoxia. The most pronounced differences were found among tissues within a species, demonstrating that hypoxia response is largely tissue-specific. In summary, our data suggest that laboratory experiments essentially mimic field data, but additional environmental factors enhance hypoxia response in nature. labels: #Globins'
b'The bimolecular rate constants for the globin- and alkali-catalysed hydrolysis of substituted phenyl hexanoates in the absence and presence of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) obey Br\xc3\xb8nsted equations with \xce\xb2(lg)\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89-0.53 (globin-catalysed), -0.68 (globin-catalysed in CTAB), -0.34 (in water) and -0.74 (in CTAB), respectively. The slopes indicate that the microsolvation environments associated with the transition states of the catalysed reactions are different from those that occur in aqueous medium. The slope (-0.74) for the reaction in CTAB implies that it proceeds in a less polar medium. The larger \xce\xb2(lg) value (-0.53) obtained for the globin-catalysed reaction compared to that for the uncatalysed one may be attributed to either the less polar microenvironments of the transition states or the involvement of one of the imidazole groups as a nucleophile. The results from a study of the effect of pH on the reactivity provide evidence for the latter assumption. All of the ligands were docked into the hydrophobic pocket of the protein, and the resulting docking scores ranged from -30.76 to -23.61 kcal mol\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9. Molecular dynamic simulations and MM-PBSA/GBSA calculations performed for the complexes gave insight into the binding modes of globin to the esters, which are consistent with experimental results. The calculations yielded comparable free energies of binding to the experimental ones for 4-nitrophenyl and 4-chloro-2-nitrophenyl hexanoates. In conclusion, information obtained from the linear free-energy relationship is still very useful for elucidating the mechanisms of organic reactions, including enzyme-catalysed reactions. This approach is further supported by the utilization of computational tools. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a neuron-specific hexacoordinated globin capable of binding various ligands, including O2, NO, and CO, the biological function of which is still uncertain. Various studies seem to indicate that neuroglobin is a neuroprotective agent when overexpressed, acting as a potent inhibitor of oxidative and nitrosative stress. In this study, we evaluated the pathophysiological response of the neuroglobin gene and protein expression in the cerebral tissue of rats sustaining traumatic brain injury of differing severity, while simultaneously measuring the oxidant/antioxidant balance. Two levels of trauma (mild and severe) were induced in anesthetized animals using the weight-drop model of diffuse axonal injury. Rats were then sacrificed at 6, 12, 24, 48, and 120 h after traumatic brain injury, and the gene and protein expression of neuroglobin and the concentrations of malondialdehyde (as a parameter representative of reactive oxygen species-mediated damage), nitrite + nitrate (indicative of NO metabolism), ascorbate, and glutathione (GSH) were determined in the brain tissue. Results indicated that mild traumatic brain injury, although causing a reversible increase in oxidative/nitrosative stress (increase in malondialdehyde and nitrite + nitrate) and an imbalance in antioxidants (decrease in ascorbate and GSH), did not induce any change in neuroglobin. Conversely, severe traumatic brain injury caused an over nine- and a fivefold increase in neuroglobin gene and protein expression, respectively, as well as a remarkable increase in oxidative/nitrosative stress and depletion of antioxidants. The results of this study, showing a lack of effect in mild traumatic brain injury as well as asynchronous time course changes in neuroglobin expression, oxidative/nitrosative stress, and antioxidants in severe traumatic brain injury, do not seem to support the role of neuroglobin as an endogenous neuroprotective antioxidant agent, at least under pathophysiological conditions. labels: #Globins'
b'Oxidative metabolism and redox signaling prove to play a decisional role in controlling adult hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) biology. However, HSPCs reside in a hypoxic bone marrow microenvironment raising the question of how oxygen metabolism might be ensued. In this study, we provide for the first time novel functional and molecular evidences that human HSPCs express myoglobin (Mb) at level comparable with that of a muscle-derived cell line. Optical spectroscopy and oxymetry enabled to estimate an O2-sensitive heme-containing protein content of approximately 180 ng globin per 10(6) HSPC and a P50 of approximately 3 \xc2\xb5M O2. Noticeably, expression of Mb mainly occurs through a HIF-1-induced alternative transcript (Mb-V/Mb-N\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8935\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8915, p<.01). A search for other Mb-related globins unveiled significant expression of neuroglobin (Ngb) but not of cytoglobin. Confocal microscopy immune detection of Mb in HSPCs strikingly revealed nuclear localization in cell subsets expressing high level of CD34 (nuclear/cytoplasmic Mb ratios 1.40\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.02 vs. 0.85\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.05, p<.01) whereas Ngb was homogeneously distributed in all the HSPC population. Dual-color fluorescence flow cytometry indicated that while the Mb content was homogeneously distributed in all the HSPC subsets that of Ngb was twofold higher in more immature HSPC. Moreover, we show that HSPCs exhibit a hypoxic nitrite reductase activity releasing NO consistent with described noncanonical functions of globins. Our finding extends the notion that Mb and Ngb can be expressed in nonmuscle and non-neural contexts, respectively, and is suggestive of a differential role of Mb in HSPC in controlling oxidative metabolism at different stages of commitment. labels: #Globins'
b'Recently we have described the globin-coupled heme containing adenylate cyclase from Leishmania major (HemAC-Lm) that shows an O2 dependent cAMP signaling (Sen Santara, et. al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 110, 16790-16795 (2013)). The heme iron of HemAC-Lm is expected to participate in oxygen binding and activates adenylate cyclase activity during catalysis, but its interactions with O2 are uncharacterized. We have utilized the HemAC-Lm and stopped-flow methods to study the formation and decay of the HemAC-Lm oxygenated complex at 25\xc2\xb0C. Mixing of the ferrous HemAC-Lm with air-saturated buffer generates a very stable oxygenated complex with absorption maxima at 414, 540 and 576nm. The distal axial ligand in the deoxygenated ferrous HemAC-Lm is displaced by O2 at a rate of ~10s(-1). To prepare apoprotein of heme iron in HemAC-Lm, we have mutated the proximal His161 to Ala and characterized the mutant protein. The apo as well as heme reconstituted ferric state of the mutant protein shows a ~30 fold lower catalytic activity compared to oxygenated form of wild type protein. The oxygenated form of heme reconstituted mutant protein is highly unstable (decay rate=6.1s(-1)). Decomposition of the oxygenated intermediate is independent of O2 concentration and is monophasic. Thus, the stabilization of ferrous-oxy species is an essential requirement in the wild type HemAC-Lm for a conformational alteration in the sensor domain that, sequentially, activates the adenylate cyclase domain, resulting in the synthesis of cAMP. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a brain globin with neuroprotective effects against ischemia and related pathological processes, acting as O2 sensor and antiapoptotic pathway transducer. Here, we survey data on neuroanatomical coexpression of transcription factors, epigenetic signature and predictive transcription factor binding sites at the neuroglobin gene locus to find hints of pathways to neuroglobin transcriptional regulation. These data provide a glimpse of how neuroglobin expression may translate into neuronal diversity and function, as well as disease. labels: #Globins'
b'Mammalian neuroglobin (Ngb) protects neuronal cells under conditions of oxidative stress. We previously showed that human Ngb acts as a guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI) for the \xce\xb1-subunits of heterotrimeric Gi/o proteins and inhibits reductions in cAMP concentration, leading to protection against cell death. In the present study, we created human E60Q Ngb mutant and clarified that Glu60 of human Ngb is a crucial residue for its GDI and neuroprotective activities. Moreover, we investigated structural and functional properties of several human Ngb mutants and demonstrated that the neuroprotective effect of human Ngb is due to its GDI activity and not due to its scavenging activity against reactive oxygen species. labels: #Globins'
b'Mammalian skeletal muscle can remodel, repair, and regenerate itself by mobilizing satellite cells, a resident population of myogenic progenitor cells. Muscle injury and subsequent activation of myogenic progenitor cells is associated with oxidative stress. Cytoglobin is a hemoprotein expressed in response to oxidative stress in a variety of tissues, including striated muscle. In this study, we demonstrate that cytoglobin is up-regulated in activated myogenic progenitor cells, where it localizes to the nucleus and contributes to cell viability. siRNA-mediated depletion of cytoglobin from C2C12 myoblasts increased levels of reactive oxygen species and apoptotic cell death both at baseline and in response to stress stimuli. Conversely, overexpression of cytoglobin reduced reactive oxygen species levels, caspase activity, and cell death. Mice in which cytoglobin was knocked out specifically in skeletal muscle were generated to examine the role of cytoglobin in vivo. Myogenic progenitor cells isolated from these mice were severely deficient in their ability to form myotubes as compared with myogenic progenitor cells from wild-type littermates. Consistent with this finding, the capacity for muscle regeneration was severely impaired in mice deficient for skeletal-muscle cytoglobin. Collectively, these data demonstrate that cytoglobin serves an important role in muscle repair and regeneration. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (NGB) is a neuron-specific vertebrate globin shown to protect against hypoxia, ischemia, oxidative stress and the toxic effects of Amyloid-beta. Following on our and others' results highlighting the importance of NGB expression in disease, we searched for genetic determinants of its expression. We found that a microRNA expressed with the NGB transcript shows significant target enrichments in the angiogenesis pathway and the Alzheimer disease/presenilin pathway. Using reporter constructs we identified potential promoter/enhancer elements between the transcription start site and 1,142\xc2\xa0bp upstream. Using 184 post-mortem temporal lobe samples we replicated the reported negative effect of age, and after genotyping tagging SNPs we found one (rs981471) showing a significant correlation with the gene's expression and another (rs8014408) showing an interaction with age, the rare C allele being correlated with higher expression and faster decline. The two SNPs are towards the 3' end of NGB within the same LD block, 52\xc2\xa0Kb apart and modestly correlated (r (2)\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.5). Next generation sequencing of the same 184 temporal lobe samples and 79 confirmed AD patients across the entire gene region (including>12\xc2\xa0Kb on the 3' and 5' flank) revealed limited coding variation, suggesting purifying selection of NGB, but did not identify regulatory or disease associated rare variants. A dinucleotide repeat in intron 1 with extensive evidence of functionality showed interesting but inconclusive results, as it was not amenable to further molecular analysis. labels: #Globins"
b'OBJECTIVE: To study the clinical effects of hypoxia preconditioning (HPC) and its effects on serum neuroglobin (NGB) and S-100B level in the patients undergoing intracranial aneurysm surgery.METHODS: Forty patients scheduled to intracranial aneurysm surgery were randomly.divided into 2 groups: HPC group (n= 20) and control group (n= 20). The patients in HPC group were treated with 3 cycles of deoxidation-reoxygenation after intubation. The time of deoxidation in each HPC cycle was recorded, while vital signs were also recorded in each corresponding time point. Blood samples were obtained from exsanguinate radial artery and jugular bulb section at the end of each HPC cycle and corresponding time points during operation to measure serum level of NGB and S100B protein and to analysis blood gas.RESULTS: During HPC process, the patients in group HPC experienced mild hypoxia and CO2 retention. With the times of HPC increasing, CO2 retention degree became heavier (P<0. 05) while hypoxia improved, the patients need more time to make SpO2 from 100% to 90% (P<0. 05). From T2 to T4 (the end of the third reoxygenation, during skull opened and aneurysm dipped, skull closed), NGB in group HPC was higher than that in control (P<0. 05), but S-100B level was not different between HPC and control group (P>0. 05).CONCLUSION: HPC could induce compensatory ability of the body to hypoxia, which might be related to the up-regulation of NGB expression. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (CYGB) is ubiquitously expressed in the cytoplasm of fibroblastic cells in many organs, including hepatic stellate cells. As yet, there is no specific marker with which to distinguish stellate cells from myofibroblasts in the human liver. To investigate whether CYGB can be utilized to distinguish hepatic stellate cells from myofibroblasts in normal and fibrotic human liver, human liver tissues damaged by infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) and at different stages of fibrosis were obtained by liver biopsy. Immunohistochemistry was performed on histological sections of liver tissues using antibodies against CYGB, cellular retinol-binding protein-1 (CRBP-1), \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA), thymocyte differentiation antigen 1 (Thy-1), and fibulin-2 (FBLN2). CYGB- and CRBP-1-positive cells were counted around fibrotic portal tracts in histological sections of the samples. The expression of several of the proteins listed above was examined in cultured mouse stellate cells. Quiescent stellate cells, but not portal myofibroblasts, expressed both CYGB and CRBP-1 in normal livers. In fibrotic and cirrhotic livers, stellate cells expressed both CYGB and \xce\xb1-SMA, whereas myofibroblasts around the portal vein expressed \xce\xb1-SMA, Thy-1, and FBLN2, but not CYGB. Development of the fibrotic stage was positively correlated with increases in Sirius red-stained, \xce\xb1-SMA-positive, and Thy-1-positive areas, whereas the number of CYGB- and CRBP-1-positive cells decreased with fibrosis development. Primary cultured mouse stellate cells expressed cytoplasmic CYGB at day 1, whereas they began to express \xce\xb1-SMA at the cellular margins at day 4. Thy-1 was undetectable throughout the culture period. In human liver tissues, quiescent stellate cells are CYGB positive. When activated, they also become \xce\xb1-SMA positive; however, they are negative for Thy-1 and FBLN2. Thus, CYGB is a useful marker with which to distinguish stellate cells from portal myofibroblasts in the damaged human liver. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin\xc2\xa0(Ngb) is a member of the globin superfamily expressed mainly in the nervous system and\xc2\xa0retina of vertebrates.\xc2\xa0Accumulated evidence has clearly demonstrated that\xc2\xa0Ngb has a neuro-protective role enhancing cell viability under hypoxia and other types of oxidative stress. It was suggested that oxidant\xc2\xa0stress\xc2\xa0could play an important role in neuronal injury after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).\xc2\xa0The present study aims to examine the expression of Ngb in the temporal cortex and its cellular localization after SAH. We used a prechiasmatic cistern model of SAH. Ngb expression was examined at 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72\xc2\xa0h after SAH by western blot analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction\xc2\xa0(PCR). Immunohistochemistry and\xc2\xa0immunofluorescence were performed to detect the localization of Ngb. Real-time PCR demonstrated that Ngb mRNA levels increased from 3\xc2\xa0h after SAH, peaked at 6\xc2\xa0h. Western blot showed Ngb protein levels were significantly increased in SAH groups in the temporal cortex and reached the peak at 24\xc2\xa0h after SAH. The immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that Ngb was weakly expressed in the cortex in the control group while the enhanced expression of Ngb could be detected in the SAH groups. In addition,\xc2\xa0immunofluorescence\xc2\xa0results revealed that the over-expressed Ngb was located in the neuronal and microglia cell cytoplasm. These findings indicated that Ngb might play an important neuro-protective effect after SAH. labels: #Globins'
b'Apoptosis represents the key mechanism for the removal of surplus, damaged, or aged cells, and deregulated apoptosis has been implicated in the etiology of diverse pathologies. There are two main pathways which are known to initiate apoptosis: the death receptor-dependent (extrinsic) pathway and the mitochondrial-dependent (intrinsic) pathway. In the intrinsic pathway, as a response to diverse signals from the cellular environment, a permeabilization of the mitochondrial outer membrane occurs, followed by the release of cytochrome c and the activation of the effector caspases, which leads to cell death. Recently, increased attention has been paid to the possible role of the protein neuroglobin, in the regulation of the apoptotic process, and data have been provided, demonstrating the ability of the protein to inhibit the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis by interacting with mitochondrial proteins. The molecular details of these interactions, however, remain largely undefined. In the present study, well recognized bioinformatics methods were applied to predict the possible interaction interfaces which the protein can exploit to interact with relevant proteins of the mitochondrial-dependent pathway of apoptosis. In the search for therapeutic approaches based on the modulation of apoptosis, such a computational prediction could represent a first, guiding step, for the design of strategies aimed at modulating these interactions, and tune the apoptotic process. labels: #Globins'
b'Animals in many aquatic ecosystems must cope with changing environmental parameters, such as temperature, oxygen availability or pH. We have investigated the molecular responses to acidification in the gills and body of zebrafish (Danio rerio) by means of quantitative real-time PCR. Expression levels of typical stress genes and genes for antioxidant defense were strongly enhanced in gills, and to lesser extents in the body, suggesting that acidification leads to oxidative stress. Surprisingly, the globins were found to be among the most prominent stress-responsive proteins in our study. Myoglobin showed the strongest response of all investigated genes in the gills, as confirmed by Western blotting. These findings agree with the role of globins in oxidative energy metabolism, but may also hint at a specific function in antioxidative defense. labels: #Globins'
b'Semi-fossorial ground squirrels face challenges to respiratory gas transport associated with the chronic hypoxia and hypercapnia of underground burrows, and such challenges are compounded in species that are native to high altitude. During hibernation, such species must also contend with vicissitudes of blood gas concentrations and plasma pH caused by episodic breathing. Here, we report an analysis of hemoglobin (Hb) function in six species of marmotine ground squirrels with different altitudinal distributions. Regardless of their native altitude, all species have high Hb-O2 affinities, mainly due to suppressed sensitivities to allosteric effectors [2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) and chloride ions]. This suppressed anion sensitivity is surprising given that all canonical anion-binding sites are conserved. Two sciurid species, the golden-mantled and thirteen-lined ground squirrel, have Hb-O2 affinities that are characterized by high pH sensitivity and low thermal sensitivity relative to the Hbs of humans and other mammals. The pronounced Bohr effect is surprising in light of highly unusual amino acid substitutions at the C-termini that are known to abolish the Bohr effect in human HbA. Taken together, the high O2 affinity of sciurid Hbs suggests an enhanced capacity for pulmonary O2 loading under hypoxic and hypercapnic conditions, while the large Bohr effect should help to ensure efficient O2 unloading in tissue capillaries. In spite of the relatively low thermal sensitivities of the sciurid Hbs, our results indicate that the effect of hypothermia on Hb oxygenation is the main factor contributing to the increased blood-O2 affinity in hibernating ground squirrels. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the role of neuroglobin in the pathology of sepsis-associated encephalopathy and ascertain if neuroglobin has any protective effects against sepsis-associated encephalopathy.DESIGN: Randomized laboratory animal study.SETTING: Research university animal laboratory.SUBJECTS: Two hundred and forty adult male Sprague-Dawley rats.INTERVENTIONS: Rats received cecal puncture and ligation (or sham) surgery to induce sepsis, then broken up into groups based on whether or not the rat developed sepsis-associated encephalopathy as determined by electroencephalograph and evoked potential recordings. The rats were then left untreated to examine the effect of sepsis-associated encephalopathy on neuroglobin, treated with a neuroglobin antisense nucleotide to block gene expression, or given hemin, a neuroglobin inducer.MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Following sepsis induction, diagnosis, and treatment, the brains were analyzed for both gross and ultrastructural morphology. Also, neuronal neuroglobin immunoreactivity and apoptosis (via terminal uridine nucleotide end-labeling) were examined. Blood serum levels were then analyzed for neuroglobin, superoxide dismutase, and malondialdehyde levels. We determined that sepsis-associated encephalopathy induces damage evident when examining both gross and ultrastructural morphology, as well as induces neuronal neuroglobin expression. Also, blockade of neuroglobin expression via antisense treatment will exacerbate these pathological effects, while increasing neuroglobin levels via hemin will ameliorate them. Blood analysis found that levels of superoxide dismutase and malondialdehyde mirrored the level of pathology found in the brain, while plasma neuroglobin levels reflected the amount of neuronal neuroglobin immunoreactivity.CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that neuroglobin is involved in the pathogenesis of sepsis-associated encephalopathy and has neuroprotective effects. We also determined that hemin has protective effects against sepsis-associated encephalopathy as well, most probably due to its effect on neuroglobin. labels: #Globins'
b"The physiological functions of neuroglobin (Ngb), the heme protein of the globin family expressed in the nervous tissue, have not yet been clarified. Besides O2 storage and homeostasis, Ngb is thought to play a role in neuroprotection as a scavenger of toxic reactive species generated in vivo under conditions of oxidative stress. Herein, the interaction of Ngb with the quinones generated by oxidation of catecholamines (dopamine, norepinephrine) and catechol estrogens (2-hydroxyestradiol and 4-hydroxyestradiol), which have been implicated in neurodegenerative pathologies like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases, has been investigated. The cytotoxicity of quinones has been ascribed to the derivatization of amino acid residues (mainly cysteine) in proteins through the formation of covalent bonds with the aromatic rings. Combined studies of tandem mass spectrometry and protein unfolding indicate the presence of quinone-promoted modifications in all of the Ngb derivatives analyzed (i.e., obtained employing either catecholamines or catechol estrogens as the source of the reactive species). Among protein residues, the highest reactivity of cysteines (Cys46, Cys55, and Cys120 in human Ngb) toward quinone species has been confirmed, and the dependence of the extent of protein modification on the method employed for catechol oxidation has been observed. When the oxidation reaction proceeds by one-electron steps, the involvement of semiquinone reactivity has been observed. The whole analysis of the data of Ngb modification suggests that the catecholamine-oxidation products can extensively modify proteins (likely by catecholamine oligomers, the compounds initially formed during the transformation of catecholamine to melanin). The modification mediated by catechol estrogens is less pronounced but strongly affects the interactions with the solvent as well as the protein stability. labels: #Globins"
b'BACKGROUND: Stroke is a major cause of death and severe disability, but effective treatments are limited. Neuroglobin, a neuronal heme-globin, has been advocated as a novel pharmacological target in combating stroke and neurodegenerative disorders based on cytoprotective properties. Using thoroughly validated antibodies and oligos, we give a detailed brain anatomical characterization of transgenic mice over expressing Neuroglobin. Moreover, using permanent middle artery occlusion the effect of elevated levels of Neuroglobin on ischemic damage was studied. Lastly, the impact of mouse strain genetic background on ischemic damage was investigated.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A four to five fold increase in Neuroglobin mRNA and protein expression was seen in the brain of transgenic mice. A \xce\xb2-actin promoter was used to drive Neuroglobin over expression, but immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization showed over expression to be confined to primarily the cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum, and only in neurons. The level and expression pattern of endogenous Neuroglobin was unaffected by insertion of the over expressing Ngb transgene. Neuroglobin over expression resulted in a significant reduction in infarct volume 24 hours after ischemia. Immunohistochemistry showed no selective sparing of Neuroglobin expressing cells in the ischemic core or penumbra. A significant difference in infarct volume was found between mice of the same strain, but from different colonies.SIGNIFICANCE: In contrast to some previous reports, Neuroglobin over expression is not global but confined to a few well-defined brain regions, and only in neurons. This study confirms previous reports showing a correlation between reduced infarct volume and elevated Neuroglobin levels, but underlines the need to study the likely contribution from compensatory mechanisms to the phenotype following a genetic perturbation. We also stress, that care should be taken when comparing results where different mouse strains and colonies have been used due to large genetic background contribution to the observed phenotype. labels: #Globins'
b'The oxy-cobolglobin models of the general formula (Py)Co(Por)(O2) (Por = meso-tetraphenyl- and meso-tetra-p-tolylporphyrinato dianions) were constructed by sequential low-temperature interaction of Py and dioxygen with microporous layers of Co-porphyrins. At cryogenic temperatures small increments of NO were introduced into the cryostat and the following reactions were monitored by the FTIR and UV-visible spectroscopy during slow warming. Similar to the recently studied (NH3)Co(Por)(O2) system (Kurtikyan et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2012, 134, 13671-13680), this interaction leads to the nitric oxide dioxygenation reaction with the formation of thermally unstable nitrato complexes (Py)Co(Por)(\xce\xb7(1)-ONO2). The reaction proceeds through the formation of the six-coordinate peroxynitrite adducts (Py)Co(Por)(OONO), as was demonstrated by FTIR measurements with the use of isotopically labeled (18)O2, (15)NO, N(18)O, and (15)N(18)O species and DFT calculations. In contrast to the ammonia system, however, the binding of dioxygen in (Py)Co(Por)(O2) is weaker and the second reaction pathway takes place due to autoxidation of NO by rebound O2 that in NO excess gives N2O3 and N2O4 species adsorbed in the layer. This leads eventually to partial formation of (Py)Co(Por)(NO) and (Py)Co(Por)(NO2) as a result of NO and NO2 reactions with five-coordinate Co(Por)(Py) complexes that are present in the layer after the O2 has been released. The former is thermally unstable and at room temperature passes to the five-coordinate nitrosyl complex, while the latter is a stable compound. In these experiments at 210 K, the layer consists mostly of six-coordinate nitrato complexes and some minor quantities of six-coordinate nitro and nitrosyl species. Their relative quantities depend on the experimental conditions, and the yield of nitrato species is proportional to the relative quantity of peroxynitrite intermediate. Using differently labeled nitrogen oxide isotopomers in different stages of the process the formation of the caged radical pair after homolytic disruption of the O-O bond in peroxynitrite moiety is clearly shown. The composition of the layers upon farther warming to room temperature depends on the experimental conditions. In vacuo the six-coordinate nitrato complexes decompose to give nitrate anion and oxidized cationic complex Co(III)(Por)(Py)2. In the presence of NO excess, however, the nitro-pyridine complexes (Py)Co(Por)(NO2) are predominantly formed formally indicating the oxo-transfer reactivity of (Py)Co(Por)(\xce\xb7(1)-ONO2) with regard to NO. Using differently labeled nitrogen in nitric oxide and coordinated nitrate a plausible mechanism of this reaction is suggested based on the isotope distribution in the nitro complexes formed. labels: #Globins'
b'Exposure to arsenic in drinking water results in a widespread environmental problem in the world, and the brain is a major target. Neuroglobin is a vertebrate heme protein regarded as playing neuroprotective role in hypoxia or oxidative stress. In this study, we investigated the toxic effects of sodium arsenite (NaAsO2) on primary cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) and detected neuroglobin (Ngb) expression in rat CGNs exposed to NaAsO2. Our results show that apoptosis was obviously induced by NaAsO2 treatment in rat CGNs by annexin V-fluorescein isothiocyanate assay. Intracellular reactive oxygen species generation increased significantly in the cells exposed to NaAsO2, and the apoptotic effects could be partially reversed by antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Ngb protein and mRNA expression were significantly downregulated in rat CGNs shortly after NaAsO2 exposure and then upregulated after a longer time of exposure. Furthermore, mRNA expression changed more than protein expression and the toxic effect of NaAsO2 on Ngb expression is dose dependent. Higher Ngb expression was also detected in rat cerebellum, but not in other parts (cerebrum, hippocampus, and midbrain) of the brain exposed to NaAsO2 for 16\xc2\xa0weeks. Taken together, cytotoxic effects of NaAsO2 on rat CGNs is induced at least partly by oxidative stress and Ngb may influence the course of arsenic toxicity in rat CGNs and rat cerebellum. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cgb) is a hexacoordinate globin that plays various physiological roles, including O2 transport, enzyme activity, and lipid peroxidation. The distal His(81)(E7) residue acts as the native sixth ligand and is crucial to exogenous ligand binding, distal environment adjustment, and heme pocket stabilization. The role of E7 has been widely studied in myoglobin, neuroglobin, and hemoglobin, but not in Cgb. In this work, the structural dynamic features of CO-ligated Cgb, CgbCO, as well as its three distal mutants H81QCgbCO, H81LCgbCO, and H81VCgbCO, were examined by performing molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. Results revealed that distal mutation significantly affected the dynamic properties of the CD-D-E and EF loop regions of Cgb. Distinct fluctuations and the occurrence of new inner cavities reflected rearrangements of the heme pocket. Distal mutation was found to affect heme motion slightly, indicating a different heme motion mechanism than that for neuroglobin. Some key residues such as E7 and CD3 showed remarkable changes in their dynamics that contributed to heme pocket rearrangement and loop region fluctuations. MD studies of four CgbCO models indicated that the distal E7 residue was a crucial influence on the dynamics of CgbCO in terms of loop fluctuations, cavity rearrangement, and slight heme motion. labels: #Globins'
b"Despite the similar tertiary structure between cytoglobin (Cygb) and myoglobin, several structural features indicate a distinct mechanism of Cygb interactions with exogenous ligands. Here we present a spectroscopic investigation of the dynamics and thermodynamics of structural changes associated with the exogenous ligand migration between the solvent and the heme active site in Cygb with reduced and oxidized Cys 38 and Cys 83 side-chains (Cygb(ox) and Cygb(red), respectively). Photo-acoustic and transient absorption data show that disulfide bond formation alters the ligand migration pathway(s) as evident from the distinct geminate quantum yields (\xce\xa6gem=0.35 for Cygb(ox) and \xce\xa6gem=0.63 for Cygb(red)) and rate constants for bimolecular CO rebinding. Moreover, ligand escape from the protein matrix is fast (<40ns) and coupled with an enthalpy change of 18\xc2\xb12kcalmol(-1) in Cygb(red), whereas the disulfide bridge formation promotes a biphasic ligand escape associated with an overall enthalpy change of 9\xc2\xb14kcalmol(-1). These results demonstrate that the disulfide bond connecting helix E and helix B modulates the conformational dynamics in Cygb including the size and energy barrier between the internal hydrophobic sites. Based on the comparison of the thermodynamic profiles for CO photo-dissociation from Cygb, myoglobin, and neuroglobin we propose that in Cygb(red) the photo-dissociated ligand escapes through the hydrophobic tunnel, whereas the CO preferably migrates through the His64 gate in Cygb(ox) suggesting that Cygb's physiological role may vary in response to intracellular redox conditions. labels: #Globins"
b'To explore the response of \xce\xb2 globin locus with established chromatin domains upon their exposure to new transcriptional environments, we transferred the chromatin-packaged \xce\xb2 globin locus of undifferentiated human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) or hESC-derived erythroblasts into an adult transcriptional environment. Distinct globin expression patterns were observed. In hESC-derived erythroblasts where both \xce\xb5 and \xce\xb3 globin were active and marked by similar chromatin modifications, \xce\xb5 globin was immediately silenced upon transfer, whereas \xce\xb3 globin continued to be expressed for months, implying that different transcriptional environments were required for their continuing expression. Whereas \xce\xb2 globin was silent both in hESCs and in hESC-derived erythroblasts, \xce\xb2 globin was only activated upon transfer from hESCs, but not in the presence of dominant \xce\xb3 globin transferred from hESC-derived erythroblasts, confirming the competing nature of \xce\xb3 versus \xce\xb2 globin expression. With time, however, silencing of \xce\xb3 globin occurred in the adult transcriptional environment with concurrent activation of \xce\xb2-globin, accompanied by a drastic change in the epigenetic landscape of \xce\xb3 and \xce\xb2 globin gene regions without apparent changes in the transcriptional environment. This switching process could be manipulated by overexpression or downregulation of certain transcription factors. Our studies provide important insights into the interplay between the transcription environment and existing chromatin domains, and we offer an experimental system to study the time-dependent human globin switching. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb), a recently discovered globin, is predominantly expressed in the brain, retina, and other nerve tissues of vertebrates. The unfolding processes of apo-neuroglobin (apoNgb) induced by guanidine hydrochloride (GdnHCl) and urea were investigated by spectroscopic methods. In the unfolding processes, apoNgb's tertiary structural transition was monitored by the changes of intrinsic fluorescence emission spectra, and its secondary structural transition was measured by the changes of far-ultraviolet circular dichroism (CD) spectra. In addition, 8-anilino-1-naphthalenesulfonic acid (ANS), a hydrophobic cluster binding dye, was also used to monitor the unfolding process of apoNgb and to explore its intermediates. Results showed that GdnHCl-induced unfolding of apoNgb was via a three-state pathway, that is, Native state (N) \xe2\x86\x92 Intermediate state (I) \xe2\x86\x92 Unfolded state (U), during which the intermediate was inferred by an increase in fluorescence intensity and the change of CD value. Gibbs free energy changes are 10.2 kJ \xc2\xb7 mol(-1) for the first unfolding transition and 14.0 kJ \xc2\xb7 mol(-1) for the second transition. However, urea-induced unfolding of apoNgb only underwent a two-state transition: Native state (N) \xe2\x86\x92 Partially unfolded state (P). The result showed that GdnHCl can efficiently affect the conformational states of apoNgb compared with those of urea. The work will benefit to have an understanding of the unfolding mechanism of apoNgb induced by GdnHCl and urea. labels: #Globins"
b'Equilibrium unfolding experiments provide access to protein thermodynamic stability revealing basic aspects of protein structure-function relationships. A limitation of these experiments stands on the availability of large amounts of protein samples. Here we present the use of the NanoDrop for monitoring guanidinium chloride-induced unfolding by Soret absorbance of monomeric heme proteins. Unfolding experiments using 2 \xce\xbcl of reactant are validated by fluorescence and circular dichroism spectroscopy and supported with five heme proteins including neuroglobin, cytochrome b5, and cyanoglobin. This work guarantees 2 orders of magnitude reduction in protein expense. Promising low-cost protein unfolding experiments following other chromophores and high-throughput screenings are discussed. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin, the third mammalian globin with a hexa-coordinated heme, exists predominantly in neurons of the brain. Neuroglobin plays an important role in neuronal death upon ischemia and oxidative stress. The physiological function of neuroglobin remains unclear. Here, we report a novel function of neuroglobin in neurite development. Knocking-down neuroglobin exhibited a prominent neurite-deficient phenotype in mouse neuroblastoma N2a cells. Silencing neuroglobin prevented neurite outgrowth, while ectopic expression of neuroglobin but not homologous cytoglobin promoted neurite outgrowth of N2a cells upon serum withdrawal. In primary cultured rat cerebral cortical neurons, neuroglobin was upregulated and preferentially distributed in neurites during neuronal development. Overexpression of neuroglobin but not cytoglobin in cultured cortical neurons promoted axonal outgrowth, while knocking-down of neuroglobin retarded axonal outgrowth. Neuroglobin overexpression suppressed phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) but increased Akt phosphorylation during neurite induction. Bimolecular fluorescence complementation and glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays revealed that neuroglobin and various mutants (E53Q, E118Q, K119N, H64A, H64L, and Y44D) bound with Akt and PTEN differentially. Neuroglobin E53Q showed a prominent reduced PTEN binding but increased Akt binding, resulting in decreased p-PTEN, increased p-Akt, and increased neurite length. Taken together, we demonstrate a critical role of neuroglobin in neuritogenesis or development via interacting with PTEN and Akt differentially to activate phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway, providing potential therapeutic applications of neuroglobin for axonopathy in neurological diseases. labels: #Globins'
b'The aim of the present study was to evaluate the presence of Neuroglobin (Ngb) and Cytoglobin (Cygb) in the solitary tract nucleus (STN) and in the carotid body of human subjects. Transverse serial sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brainstems, taken from six subjects, were investigated. Ngb and Cygb are expressed in both the structures. Differences in expression of Ngb and Cygb among dorsal and ventral area of the STN may be related to their different functions and different metabolic demands. Because the STN plays an important role in the processing of cardiovascular and respiratory reflex inputs, Ngb and Cygb may play an integrative central modulatory action for the two systems. labels: #Globins'
b'This work deals with two neuroglobins from phylogenetically distant organisms. Deriving from the acoelomorph Symsagittifera roscoffensis, SrNgb is functionally pentacoordinated, and is assumed to function as a reserve of dioxygen (O\xe2\x82\x82). Obtained from mice, mNgb is functionally hexacoordinated, and presumably triggers signals from sensing O\xe2\x82\x82. Here, it is investigated how these two globins are permeated by diatomic gases, SrNgb by O\xe2\x82\x82 and mNgb by CO. With protein atomic coordinates available from high-resolution X-ray diffraction analysis, O\xe2\x82\x82 and CO pathways were traced from molecular-dynamics simulations in H\xe2\x82\x82O solution, which makes no difference between the two gases, accelerated by applying an external randomly-oriented minimal force to the center of mass of the diatomic gas molecule. This allowed us to explore a statistically significant large number of trajectories. It emerged that CO leaves mNgb from preferentially peripheral gates located on the side of the heme propionate chains, whereas O\xe2\x82\x82 leaves SrNgb from the opposite side. This shows no analogy with either the functionally pentacoordinated, O\xe2\x82\x82-transporting, myoglobin (Mgb), or the hexacoordinated, O\xe2\x82\x82-sensing, cytoglobin, despite the same three-over-three typical \xce\xb1-helical globin folding. The sole analogy that could be observed was a preference for the shortest diatomic gas pathways with both SrNgb and Mgb. It is tempting to speculate that this fulfills the need of being quick in delivering O\xe2\x82\x82 to depleted organs. labels: #Globins'
b'Nuclear factor- (erythroid-derived 2) like 2 (NFE2L2, NRF2) is a key transcriptional activator of the antioxidant response pathway and is closely related to erythroid transcription factor NFE2. Under oxidative stress, NRF2 heterodimerizes with small Maf proteins and binds cis-acting enhancer sequences found near oxidative stress response genes. Using the dietary isothiocyanate sulforaphane (SFN) to activate NRF2, chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) identified several hundred novel NRF2-mediated targets beyond its role in oxidative stress. Activated NRF2 bound the antioxidant response element (ARE) in promoters of several known and novel target genes involved in iron homeostasis and heme metabolism, including known targets FTL and FTH1, as well as novel binding in the globin locus control region. Five novel NRF2 target genes were chosen for followup: AMBP, ABCB6, FECH, HRG-1 (SLC48A1), and TBXAS1. SFN-induced gene expression in erythroid K562 and lymphoid cells were compared for each target gene. NRF2 silencing showed reduced expression in lymphoid, lung, and hepatic cells. Furthermore, stable knockdown of NRF2 negative regulator KEAP1 in K562 cells resulted in increased NQO1, AMBP, and TBXAS1 expression. NFE2 binding sites in K562 cells revealed similar binding profiles as lymphoid NRF2 sites in all potential NRF2 candidates supporting a role for NRF2 in heme metabolism and erythropoiesis. labels: #Globins'
b'The aim of the present study was to uncover the mechanism underlying the neuroprotection of Hemin\xe2\x80\x91mediated neuroglobin (Ngb) in an in vivo model of brain injury. Sixty healthy male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into 5 groups (n=12, each group): sham surgery, ischemia, Hemin, LY294002 (LY) and Hemin + LY. Focal cerebral ischemia was established by unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion. Neurological function and cerebral infarction volume were evaluated 24 h following surgery. Expression of Ngb and Akt mRNA was detected by RT\xe2\x80\x91PCR, and the expression of Ngb protein and activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway were determined by western blot analysis. No visible damage in the brain and no neurological impairment in the sham surgery group were observed. When compared with the ischemia group, Hemin treatment induced the upregulation of Ngb and Akt mRNA, Ngb protein and phosphorylation of Akt (pAkt). Hemin treatment also improved neurological functions and reduced infarct volume. By contrast, LY treatment increased infarct volume, deteriorated neurological functions and significantly reduced expression of pAkt; however, Ngb mRNA and protein expression was unchanged. When compared with Hemin alone, a combination of Hemin and LY treatment induced more severe brain damage and markedly decreased the expression of pAkt. The results of the present study demonstrated that the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, which is associated with cell survival, mediates the neuroprotective effects of Hemin\xe2\x80\x91induced Ngb following cerebral ischemia. labels: #Globins'
b'Myoglobins are ubiquitous proteins that play a seminal role in oxygen storage, transport, and NO metabolism. The folding mechanism of apomyoglobins from different species has been studied to a fair extent over the last two decades. However, integrated investigations of the entire process, including both the early (sub-ms) and late (ms-s) folding stages, have been missing. Here, we study the folding kinetics of the single-Trp Escherichia coli globin apoHmpH via a combination of continuous-flow microfluidic and stopped-flow approaches. A rich series of molecular events emerges, spanning a very wide temporal range covering more than 7 orders of magnitude, from sub-microseconds to tens of seconds. Variations in fluorescence intensity and spectral shifts reveal that the protein region around Trp120 undergoes a fast collapse within the 8 \xce\xbcs mixing time and gradually reaches a native-like conformation with a half-life of 144 \xce\xbcs from refolding initiation. There are no further fluorescence changes beyond ca. 800 \xce\xbcs, and folding proceeds much more slowly, up to 20 s, with acquisition of the missing helicity (ca. 30%), long after consolidation of core compaction. The picture that emerges is a gradual acquisition of native structure on a free-energy landscape with few large barriers. Interestingly, the single tryptophan, which lies within the main folding core of globins, senses some local structural consolidation events after establishment of native-like core polarity (i.e., likely after core dedydration). In all, this work highlights how the main core of the globin fold is capable of becoming fully native efficiently, on the sub-millisecond time scale. labels: #Globins'
b'In China, the traditional Chinese medicine "YiSui ShenXu Granule" has been used for treating \xce\xb2-thalassemia over 20 years and known to be effective in clinic. Several purified components from "YiSui ShenXu Granule" are tested in K562 cells to reveal its effect on globin expression and erythroid differentiation, and one of the purified components, emodin, was demonstrated to increase the expression of \xce\xb1-, \xce\xb5-, \xce\xb3-globin, CD235a, and CD71 in K562 cells. Moreover, the increase of their expression is emodin concentration-dependent. The mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles are further analyzed and 417 mRNAs and 35 miRNAs with differential expression between untreated and emodin-treated K562 cells were identified. Among them, two mRNAs that encode known positive regulators of erythropoiesis, ALAS2, and c-KIT respectively, increased during emodin-induced K562 erythroid differentiation, meanwhile, two negative regulators, miR-221 and miR-222, decreased during this process. These results indicate that emodin can improve the expression of globin genes in K562 cells and also induce K562 cells to erythroid differentiation possibly through up-regulating ALAS2 and c-KIT and down-regulating miR-221 and miR-222. labels: #Globins'
b"Several factors involved in the core circadian rhythm are PAS domain proteins, one of which, neuronal PAS2 (NPAS2), contains a heme-binding motif. It is thought that heme controls the transcriptional activity of core circadian factors BMAL1-NPAS2, and that the heme-binding nuclear receptor REV-erb\xce\xb1 negatively regulates the expression of BMAL1. To examine the role of heme in the nucleus, we expressed nuclear hemeproteins including the nuclear localization signal-added cytoglobin, NPAS2 and REV-erb\xce\xb1. Then, the living cells expressing these proteins were treated with 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescin diacetate (DCFH-DA). The fluorescent signal derived from DCFH-DA was observed in the nucleus. When the cells were cultured with hemin, the signal of heme in the nucleus increased. Considering that DCFH-DA reacted with heme, we propose that the use of DCFH-DA could be useful in detection of the heme moiety of hemeprotein in vivo. labels: #Globins"
b'Kr\xc3\xbcppel-like factors 3 and 8 (KLF3 and KLF8) are highly related transcriptional regulators that bind to similar sequences of DNA. We have previously shown that in erythroid cells there is a regulatory hierarchy within the KLF family, whereby KLF1 drives the expression of both the Klf3 and Klf8 genes and KLF3 in turn represses Klf8 expression. While the erythroid roles of KLF1 and KLF3 have been explored, the contribution of KLF8 to this regulatory network has been unknown. To investigate this, we have generated a mouse model with disrupted KLF8 expression. While these mice are viable, albeit with a reduced life span, mice lacking both KLF3 and KLF8 die at around embryonic day 14.5 (E14.5), indicative of a genetic interaction between these two factors. In the fetal liver, Klf3 Klf8 double mutant embryos exhibit greater dysregulation of gene expression than either of the two single mutants. In particular, we observe derepression of embryonic, but not adult, globin expression. Taken together, these results suggest that KLF3 and KLF8 have overlapping roles in vivo and participate in the silencing of embryonic globin expression during development. labels: #Globins'
b'A patient with \xce\xb2(E)/\xce\xb2(0) -thalassemia major was converted to transfusion-independence 4.5 years ago by lentiviral gene transfer in hematopoietic stem cells while showing a myeloid-biased cell clone. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are a potential alternative source of hematopoietic stem cells. If fetal to adult globin class, switching does not occur in vivo in iPSC-derived erythroid cells, \xce\xb2-globin gene transfer would be unnecessary. To investigate both vector integration skewing and the potential use of iPSCs for the treatment of thalassemia, we derived iPSCs from the thalassemia gene therapy patient and compared iPSC-derived hematopoietic cells to their natural isogenic somatic counterparts. In NSG immunodeficient mice, embryonic to fetal and a partial fetal to adult globin class switching were observed, indicating that the gene transfer is likely necessary for iPSC-based therapy of the \xce\xb2-hemoglobinopathies. Lentivector integration occurred in regions of low and high genotoxicity. Surprisingly, common integration sites (CIS) were identified across those iPSCs and cells retrieved from isogenic and nonisogenic gene therapy patients with \xce\xb2-thalassemia and adrenoleukodystrophy, respectively. This suggests that CIS observed in the absence of overt tumorigenesis result from nonrandom lentiviral integration rather than oncogenic in vivo selection. These findings bring the use of iPSCs closer to practicality and further clarify our interpretation of genome-wide lentivector integration. labels: #Globins'
b'The endogenous vasodilator nitric oxide (NO) is metabolized in tissues in an oxygen-dependent manner. In skeletal and cardiac muscle, high concentrations of myoglobin (Mb) function as a potent NO scavenger. However, the Mb concentration is very low in vascular smooth muscle, where low concentrations of cytoglobin (Cygb) may play a major role in metabolizing NO. Questions remain regarding how low concentrations of Cygb and Mb differ in terms of NO metabolism, and the basis for their different cellular roles and functions. In this study, electrode techniques were used to perform comparative measurements of the kinetics of NO consumption by Mb and Cygb. UV/Vis spectroscopic methods and computer simulations were performed to study the reaction of Mb and Cygb with ascorbate (Asc) and the underlying mechanism. It was observed that the initial rate of Cygb(3+) reduction by Asc was 415-fold greater than that of Mb(3+). In the low [O2] range (0-50 \xce\xbcM), the Cygb-mediated NO consumption rate is ~ 500 times more sensitive to changes in O2 concentration than that of Mb. The reduction of Cygb(3+) by Asc follows a reversible kinetic model, but that of Mb(3+) is irreversible. A reaction mechanism for Cygb(3+) reduction by Asc is proposed, and the reaction equilibrium constants are determined. Our results suggest that the rapid reduction of Cygb by cellular reductants enables Cygb to efficiently regulate NO metabolism in the vascular wall in an oxygen-dependent manner, but the slow rate of Mb reduction does not show this oxygen dependence. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Cytoglobin (Cygb) was discovered a decade ago as the fourth vertebrate heme-globin. The function of Cygb is still unknown, but accumulating evidence from in vitro studies point to a putative role in scavenging of reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide metabolism and in vivo studies have shown Cygb to be up regulated by hypoxic stress. This study addresses three main questions related to Cygb expression in the hippocampus: 1) Is the rat hippocampus a valid neuroanatomical model for the human hippocampus; 2) What is the degree of co-expression of Cygb and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in the rat hippocampus; 3) The effect of chronic restraint stress (CRS) on Cygb and nNOS expression.METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was used to compare Cygb expression in the human and rat hippocampi as well as Cygb and nNOS co-expression in the rat hippocampus. Transcription and translation of Cygb and nNOS were investigated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time qPCR) and Western blotting on hippocampi from Flinders (FSL/FRL) rats exposed to CRS.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Cygb expression pattern in the human and rat hippocampus was found to be similar. A high degree of Cygb and nNOS co-expression was observed in the rat hippocampus. The protein levels of nNOS and Cygb were significantly up-regulated in FSL animals in the dorsal hippocampus. In the ventral hippocampus Cygb protein levels were significantly up-regulated in the FSL compared to the FRL, following CRS.SIGNIFICANCE: The rodent hippocampus can be used to probe questions related to Cygb protein localization in human hippocampus. The high degree of Cygb and nNOS co-expression gives support for Cygb involvement in nitric oxide metabolism. CRS induced Cygb and nNOS expression indicating that Cygb expression is stress responsive. Cygb and nNOS may be important in physiological response to stress. labels: #Globins'
b"BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that cytoglobin (Cygb) may function as a tumor suppressor gene.METHODS: We immunohistochemically evaluated the expression of Cygb, phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI-3K), phosphorylated (p)-Akt, Interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 (TNF\xce\xb1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in 88 patients with 41 high-grade gliomas and 47 low-grade gliomas. Intratumoral microvessel density (IMD) was also determined and associated with clinicopathological factors.RESULTS: Low expression of Cygb was significantly associated with the higher histological grading and tumor recurrence. A significant negative correlation emerged between Cygb expression and PI3K, p-Akt, IL-6, TNF\xce\xb1 or VEGF expression. Cygb expression was negatively correlated with IMD. There was a positive correlation between PI3K, p-Akt, IL-6, TNF\xce\xb1 and VEGF expression with IMD.High histologic grade, tumor recurrence, decreased Cygb expression, increased PI3K expression, increased p-Akt expression and increased VEGF expression correlated with patients' overall survival in univariate analysis. However, only histological grading and Cygb expression exhibited a relationship with survival of patients as independent prognostic factors of glioma by multivariate analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Cygb loss may contribute to tumor recurrence and a worse prognosis in gliomas. Cygb may serve as an independent predictive factor for prognosis of glioma patients. labels: #Globins"
b'OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the potentially protective effect of neuroglobin (Ngb) gene-modified bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) on traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) in rabbits.METHODS: A lentiviral vector containing an Ngb gene was constructed and used to deliver Ngb to BMSCs. Ngb gene-modified BMSCs were then injected at the SCI sites 24 hours after SCI. The motor functions of the rabbits were evaluated by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan rating scale. Fluorescence microscopy, quantitative real-time PCRs, Western blots, malondialdehyde (MDA) tests, and terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated UTP end labeling assays were also performed.RESULTS: Ngb expression in the Ngb-BMSC group increased significantly. A more significant functional improvement was observed in the Ngb-BMSC group compared with those in the other groups. Traumatic SCI seemingly led to an increase in MDA level and number of apoptotic cells, which can be prevented by Ngb-BMSC treatment.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that Ngb gene-modified BMSCs can strengthen the therapeutic benefits of BMSCs in reducing secondary damage and improving the neurological outcome after traumatic SCI. Therefore, the combined strategy of BMSC transplantation and Ngb gene therapy can be used to treat traumatic SCI. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin is a neuronal protein with protective effects in animal models of stroke and Alzheimer's disease, but the relevance of these effects to Alzheimer's disease in humans is unknown. We measured neuroglobin levels by western blot and immunostained hippocampal sections for neuroglobin, cell-type protein markers, and amyloid-\xce\xb2, in brain tissue obtained at autopsy from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Neuroglobin levels were increased in early and moderately advanced Alzheimer's disease compared to controls, but declined to control levels in severe disease. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, neuroglobin was detected within neurons, as well as at extracellular sites associated with amyloid-\xce\xb2 deposits. We conclude that, as in transgenic mouse models, neuroglobin may influence the course of clinical Alzheimer's disease. labels: #Globins"
b'Neuroglobin is a hypoxia-inducible, neuroprotective protein related to myoglobin and hemoglobin, but little is known about its neurodevelopmental expression or function. To begin to explore these issues, we measured neuroglobin protein expression during neuronal differentiation of human embryonic stem cells in vitro and in the neurogenic subventricular zone of adult rats in vivo. Neuroglobin protein expression was barely detectable by western blotting in human embryonic stem cells, but was readily demonstrable in neural stem cells, and was further induced upon differentiation to neurons. In the adult subventricular zone, neuroglobin expression coincided with that of the neuronal lineage marker doublecortin, but not with vimentin or glial fibrillary acidic protein. These findings suggest that neuroglobin is expressed early in the course of neuronal differentiation and may, therefore, have a role in neurodevelopment. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb) is an endogenous neuroprotective molecule against hypoxic/ischemic brain injury, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely undefined. Our recent study revealed that Ngb can bind to voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), a regulator of mitochondria permeability transition (MPT). In this study we examined the role of Ngb in MPT pore (mPTP) opening following oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) in primary cultured mouse cortical neurons. Co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) and immunocytochemistry showed that the binding between Ngb and VDAC was increased after OGD compared to normoxia, indicating the OGD-enhanced Ngb-VDAC interaction. Ngb overexpression protected primary mouse cortical neurons from OGD-induced neuronal death, to an extent comparable to mPTP opening inhibitor, cyclosporine A (CsA) pretreatment. We further measured the role of Ngb in OGD-induced mPTP opening using Ngb overexpression and knockdown approaches in primary cultured neurons, and recombinant Ngb exposure to isolated mitochondria. Same as CsA pretreatment, Ngb overexpression significantly reduced OGD-induced mPTP opening markers including mitochondria swelling, mitochondrial NAD(+) release, and cytochrome c (Cyt c) release in primary cultured neurons. Recombinant Ngb incubation significantly reduced OGD-induced NAD(+) release and Cyt c release from isolated mitochondria. In contrast, Ngb knockdown significantly increased OGD-induced neuron death, and increased OGD-induced mitochondrial NAD(+) release and Cyt c release as well, and these outcomes could be rescued by CsA pretreatment. In summary, our results demonstrated that Ngb overexpression can inhibit OGD-induced mPTP opening in primary cultured mouse cortical neurons, which may be one of the molecular mechanisms of Ngb's neuroprotection. labels: #Globins"
b'Neuroglobin is a member of the globin superfamily proposed to be only expressed in neurons and involved in neuronal protection from hypoxia or oxidative stress. A significant fraction of the protein localizes within the mitochondria and is directly associated with mitochondrial metabolism and integrity. The retina is the site of the highest concentration for neuroglobin and has been reported to be up to 100-fold higher than in the brain. Since neuroglobin was especially abundant in retinal ganglion cell layer, we investigated its abundance in optic nerves. Remarkably in optic nerves, neuroglobin is observed, as expected, in retinal ganglion cell axon profiles but also astrocyte processes, in physiological conditions, possess high levels of the protein. Neuroglobin mRNA and protein levels are ~10-fold higher in optic nerves than in retinas, indicating an important accumulation of neuroglobin in these support cells. Additionally, neuroglobin levels increase in M\xc3\xbcller cells during reactive gliosis in response to eye injury. This suggests the pivotal role of neuroglobin in retinal glia involved in neuronal support and/or healing. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'We hypothesized that targeting key points in the ischemic cascade with combined neuroglobin (Ngb) overexpression and c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) inhibition (SP600125) would offer greater neuroprotection than single treatment after in vitro hypoxia/reoxygenation and in a randomized, blinded in vivo experimental stroke study using a clinically relevant rat strain. Male spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats underwent transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) and were divided into the following groups: tMCAO; tMCAO+control GFP-expressing canine adenovirus-2, CAVGFP; tMCAO+Ngb-expressing CAV-2, CAVNgb; tMCAO+SP600125; tMCAO+CAVNgb+SP600125; or sham procedure. Rats were assessed till day 14 for neurologic outcome before infarct determination. In vitro, combined lentivirus-mediated Ngb overexpression+SP600125 significantly reduced oxidative stress and apoptosis compared with single treatment(s) after hypoxia/reoxygenation in B50 cells. In vivo, infarct volume was significantly reduced by CAVNgb, SP600125, and further by CAVNgb+SP600125. The number of Ngb-positive cells in the peri-infarct cortex and striatum was significantly increased 14 days after tMCAO in animals receiving CAVNgb. Neurologic outcome, measured using a 32-point neurologic score, significantly improved with CAVNgb+SP600125 compared with single treatments at 14 days after tMCAO. Combined Ngb overexpression with JNK inhibition reduced hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in cultured neurons and reduced infarct and improved neurologic outcome more than single therapy after in vivo experimental stroke in hypertensive rats. labels: #Globins'
b'Erythropoiesis, a process of erythroid production, is controlled by several factors including oxygen level. In this study, the effect of oxygen tension on erythropoiesis was investigated in K562 erythroleukemic cell line and erythroid progenitor cells derived from normal and \xce\xb2-thalassemia/hemoglobin (Hb) E individuals. The enhanced erythroid differentiation specific markers including increased levels of \xce\xb1-, \xce\xb2- and \xce\xb3-globin gene expressions, numbers of HbF positive cells and the presence of glycophorin A surface marker were observed during cell culture under hypoxic atmosphere. The result also showed that miR-210, one of the hypoxia-induced miRNAs, was up-regulated in K562 and \xce\xb2-thalassemia/HbE progenitor cells cultured under hypoxic condition. Inhibition of miR-210 expression leads to reduction of the globin gene expression and delayed maturation in K562 and erythroid progenitor cells. This indicated that miR-210 contributes to hypoxia-induced erythroid differentiation in both K562 cells and \xce\xb2-thalassemia/HbE erythroid progenitor cells. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb), a neuron-specific heme-binding protein that binds O2, CO and NO reversibly, and promotes in vivo and in vitro cell survival after hypoxic and ischaemic insult. Although the mechanisms of this neuroprotection remain unknown, Ngb might play an important role in counteracting the adverse effects of ischaemic stroke and cerebral hypoxia. Several Ngb overexpressing mouse models have confirmed this hypothesis; however, these models were not yet exposed to in-depth behavioural characterisations. To investigate the potential changes in behaviour due to Ngb overexpression, heterozygous mice and wild type (WT) littermates were subjected to a series of cognitive and behavioural tests (i.e., the SHIRPA primary screening, the hidden-platform Morris water maze, passive avoidance learning, 47h cage activity, open field exploration, a dark-light transition box, an accelerating rotarod, a stationary beam, a wire suspension task and a gait test) under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. No significant behavioural differences were found between WT and Ngb-overexpressing mice at three months old. However, one-year-old Ngb-overexpressing mice travelled more distance on the stationary beam compared with WT littermates. This result shows that the constitutive overexpression of Ngb might counteract the endogenous decrease of Ngb in crucial brain regions such as the cerebellum, thereby counteracting age-induced neuromotor dysfunction. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b"Chromatin loops are formed between enhancers and promoters and between insulators to regulate gene transcription in the eukaryotic genome. These transcription regulatory elements forming loops have highly acetylated histones. To understand the correlation between histone acetylation and chromatin loop formation, we inhibited the expression of histone acetyltransferase CBP and p300 in erythroid K562 cells and analyzed the chromatin structure of the \xce\xb2-globin locus. The proximity between the locus control region (LCR) and the active (G)\xce\xb3-globin gene was decreased in the \xce\xb2-globin locus when histones were hypoacetylated by the double knockdown of CBP and p300. Sensitivity to DNase I and binding of erythroid specific activators were reduced in the hypoacetylated LCR hypersensitive sites (HSs) and gene promoter. Interestingly, the chromatin loop between HS5 and 3'HS1 was formed regardless of the hypoacetylation of the \xce\xb2-globin locus. CTCF binding was maintained at HS5 and 3'HS1 in the hypoacetylated locus. Thus, these results indicate that histone acetylation contributes to chromatin looping through the formation of HSs in the LCR and gene promoter. However, looping between insulators appears to be independent from histone acetylation. labels: #Globins"
b"Cytoglobin (CYGB) is frequently downregulated in many types of human malignancies, and its exogenous overexpression reduces proliferation of cancer cells. Despite its implied tumour suppressor (TSG) functions, its exact role in carcinogenesis remains unclear as CYGB upregulation is also associated with tumour hypoxia and aggressiveness. In this study, we explore the TSG role of CYGB, its influence on the phenotype of cancerous cells under stress conditions and the clinical significance of CYGB expression and promoter methylation in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). DNA methylation-dependent expression silencing of CYGB is demonstrated in both clinical samples and cell lines. CYGB promoter was more frequently methylated in lung adenocarcinomas (P = 1.4 \xc3\x97 10(-4)). Demethylation by 5'-azadeoxycytidine partially restored CYGB expression in cell lines. Interestingly, trichostatin A triggered upregulation of CYGB expression in cancer cell lines and downregulation in non-tumourigenic ones. CYGB mRNA expression in NSCLC surgical specimens correlated with that of HIF1\xce\xb1 and VEGFa (P<1 \xc3\x97 10(-4)). Overexpression of CYGB in cancer cell lines reduced cell migration, invasion and anchorage-independent growth. Moreover, CYGB impaired cell proliferation, but only in the lung adenocarcinoma cell line (H358). Upon hydrogen peroxide treatment, CYGB protected cell viability, migratory potential and anchorage independence by attenuating oxidative injury. In hypoxia, CYGB overexpression decreased cell viability, augmented migration and anchorage independence in a cell-type-specific manner. In conclusion, CYGB revealed TSG properties in normoxia but promoted tumourigenic potential of the cells exposed to stress, suggesting a bimodal function in lung tumourigenesis, depending on cell type and microenvironmental conditions. labels: #Globins"
b'Surges of nitric oxide compromise mitochondrial respiration primarily by competitive inhibition of oxygen binding to cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV) and are particularly injurious in neurons, which rely on oxidative phosphorylation for all their energy needs. Here, we show that transgenic overexpression of the neuronal globin protein, neuroglobin, helps diminish protein nitration, preserve mitochondrial function and sustain ATP content of primary cortical neurons challenged by extended nitric oxide exposure. Specifically, in transgenic neurons, elevated neuroglobin curtailed nitric oxide-induced alterations in mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates, including baseline oxygen consumption, consumption coupled with ATP synthesis, proton leak and spare respiratory capacity. Concomitantly, activation of genes involved in sensing and responding to oxidative/nitrosative stress, including the early-immediate c-Fos gene and the phase II antioxidant enzyme, heme oxygenase-1, was diminished in neuroglobin-overexpressing compared to wild-type neurons. Taken together, these differences reflect a lesser insult produced by similar concentrations of nitric oxide in neuroglobin-overexpressing compared to wild-type neurons, suggesting that abundant neuroglobin buffers nitric oxide and raises the threshold of nitric oxide-mediated injury in neurons. labels: #Globins'
b'This study was designed to investigate the expression profile of CYGB, its potential neuroprotective function, and underlying molecular mechanisms using a model of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI) brain injury. Cygb mRNA and protein expression were evaluated within the first 36 h after the HI model was induced using RT-PCR and Western blotting. Cygb mRNA expression was increased at 18 h in a time-dependent manner, and its level of protein expression increased progressively in 24 h. To verify the neuroprotective effect of CYGB, a gene transfection technique was employed. Cygb cDNA and shRNA delivery adenovirus systems were established (Cygb-cDNA-ADV and Cygb-shRNA-ADV, respectively) and injected into the brains of 3-day-old rats 4 days before they were induced with HI treatment. Rats from different groups were euthanized 24 h post-HI, and brain samples were harvested. 2,3,5-Triphenyltetrazolium chloride, TUNEL, and Nissl staining indicated that an up-regulation of CYGB resulted in reduced acute brain injury. The superoxide dismutase level was found to be dependent on expression of CYGB. The Morris water maze test in 28-day-old rats demonstrated that CYGB expression was associated with improvement of long term cognitive impairment. Studies also demonstrated that CYGB can up-regulate mRNA and protein levels of VEGF and increase both the density and diameter of the microvessels but inhibits activation of caspase-2 and -3. Thus, this is the first in vivo study focusing on the neuroprotective role of CYGB. The reduction of neonatal HI injury by CYGB may be due in part to antioxidant and antiapoptotic mechanisms and by promoting angiogenesis. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a respiratory protein that is preferentially expressed in brain of mouse and man. In this article, Tibetan antelope, living at altitude of 3 000-5 000 m for millions of years, was selected as the model of hypoxia-tolerant adaptation species. Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot techniques, expression of Ngb gene was amplified and analyzed in antelope brain tissue. Our results showed that Ngb homology protein in Tibetan antelope was identified with more sequence similarity with cattle (96%), sheep (95%), and human (95%). We detected that there were some mutations occurred in the Open Reading Frame of Ngb in Tibetan antelope compared with sheep. Phylogenetic analysis of Ngb chain showed that it was closer to cattle than the others. This study suggests possible roles of central nervous system enriched Ngb in adaptation of Tibetan antelope to extremely high altitude. labels: #Globins'
b'This work deals with dioxygen (O2 ) binding sites and pathways through inducible human heme oxygenase (HO-1). The experimentally known distal binding site 1, and sites 2-3 above it, could be reproduced by means of non-deterministic random-acceleration molecular-dynamics (RAMD) simulations. In addition, RAMD revealed the proximal binding site 5, a deeply-seated binding site 4, which lies behind heme, as well as a few gates communicating with the external medium. In getting from site 1 to the main gate, which lies on the protein front opposed to site 4, O2 follows chiefly the shortest direct pathway. Less frequently, O2 visits intermediate sites 2, 4, or 5 along longer pathways. A similarity between HO-1, myoglobin, and cytoglobin in using, for diatomic gas delivery, the direct shortest pathway from the heme center to the surrounding medium, is emphasized. Otherwise, comparing other proteins and diatomic gases, each system reveals its peculiarities as to sites, gates, and pathways. Thus, relating these properties to the physiological functions of the proteins remains in general a challenge for future studies. labels: #Globins'
b'A bioinformatics survey of putative globins in over 2200 bacterial and some 140 archaeal genomes revealed that over half the bacterial and approximately one fifth of archaeal genomes contain genes encoding globins that were classified into three families: the M (myoglobin-like), and S (sensor) families all exhibiting the canonical 3/3 myoglobin fold, and the T family (truncated myoglobin fold). Although the M family comprises 2 subfamilies, flavohemoglobins (FHbs) and single domain globins (SDgbs), the S family encompasses chimeric globin-coupled sensors (GCSs), single domain Pgbs (protoglobins) and SSDgbs (sensor single domain globins). The T family comprises three classes TrHb1s, TrHb2s and TrHb3s, characterized by the abbreviated 2/2 myoglobin fold. The Archaea contain only Pgbs, GCSs and TrHb1s. The smallest globin-bearing genomes are the streamlined genomes (~1.3Mbp) of the SAR11 clade of alphaproteobacteria and the slightly larger (ca. 1.7Mbp) genomes of Aquificae. The smallest genome with members of all three families is the 2.3Mbp genome of the extremophile Methylacidiphilum infernorum (Verrumicrobia). Of the 147 possible combinations of the eight globin subfamilies, only 83 are observed. Although binary combinations are infrequent and ternary combinations are rare, the FHb+TrHb2 combination is the most commonly observed. Of the possible functions of bacterial globins we discuss the two principal ones - nitric oxide detoxification via the NO dioxygenase or denitrosylase activities and the sensing of oxygen concentration in the environmental niche. In only few cases has a physiological role been demonstrated in vivo. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b"Differentiation-therapy is an important approach in the treatment of cancer, as in the case of erythroid induction in chronic myelogenous leukemia. Moreover, an important therapeutic strategy for treating beta-thalassemia and sickle-cell anemia could be the use of drugs able to induce erythroid differentiation and fetal hemoglobin (HbF) accumulation: in fact, the increased production of this type of hemoglobin can reduce the clinical symptoms and the frequency of transfusions. An important class of erythroid differentiating compounds and HbF inducers is composed by DNA-binding chemotherapeutics: however, they are not used in most instances considering their possible devastating side effects. In this contest, we approached the study of erythrodifferentiating properties of furocoumarins. In fact, upon UV-A irradiation, they are able to covalently bind DNA. Thus, the erythrodifferentiation activity of some linear and angular furocoumarins was evaluated in the experimental K562 cellular model system. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase-chain reaction assay was employed to evaluate the accumulation of different globin mRNAs. The results demonstrated that both linear and angular furocoumarins are strong inducers of erythroid differentiation of K562 cells. From a preliminary screening, we selected the most active compounds and investigated the role of DNA photodamage in their erythroid inducing activity and mechanism of action. Moreover, some cytofluorimetric experiments were carried out to better study cell cycle modifications and the mitochondrial involvement. A further development of the work was carried out studying the erythroid differentiation of photolysis products of these molecules. 5,5'-Dimethylpsoralen photoproducts induced an important increase in \xce\xb3-globin gene transcription in K562 cells. labels: #Globins"
b'Globins constitute a superfamily of heme-binding proteins that is widely present in many species. There are 33 putative globins in the genome of Caenorhabditis elegans, where glb-13 is a homolog of neuroglobin (Ngb) based on sequence analysis and specific expression in neurons. Here we examined whether glb-13 as well as Ngb is also associated with resistance to reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by paraquat. Our results showed that the mRNA level of glb-13 was significantly upregulated after paraquat exposure. Expression of a green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene directed by the glb-13 promoter was increased by paraquat exposure. The mutant C. elegans strain glb-13(tm2825) was sensitive to paraquat-induced oxidative stress. Overexpression of human Ngb (hNgb) in C. elegans neuronal cells can rescue the paraquat sensitive phenotype of the mutant strain. glb-13 mutation or hNgb overexpression did not affect the expression of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD). To examine the ROS-scavenging capabilities of hNgb and glb-13, we further examined the level of ROS in glb-13 mutant and hNgb transgenic (hNgb-Tg) worms. There was no statistical difference in ROS levels in the untreated controls; however in paraquat-treated worms, the ROS level was statistically repressed in the hNgb-Tg relative to enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-Tg worms or wildtype animals. Additionally, the ROS level of glb-13 mutant was statistically higher than the wildtype animals. Furthermore, hNgb overexpression diminished the ROS level of glb-13 mutant. In conclusion, hNgb can rescue the ROS sensitive phenotype of the glb-13 mutant strain. The protein GLB-13 seems to have an hNgb-like function, suggesting the importance of the globin protein family in maintaining the homeostasis of ROS signals. Our data provided evidence for the first time that glb-13 is associated with the resistance against oxidative stress-induced toxicity. labels: #Globins'
b'Functional and structural properties of protoglobin from Methanosarcina acetivorans, whose Cys(101)E20 residue was mutated to Ser (MaPgb*), and of mutants missing either the first 20 N-terminal amino acids (MaPgb*-\xce\x94N20 mutant), or the first 33 N-terminal amino acids [N-terminal loop of 20 amino acids and a 13-residue Z-helix, preceding the globin fold A-helix; (MaPgb*-\xce\x94N20Z mutant)] have been investigated. In keeping with the MaPgb*-\xce\x94N20 mutant crystal structure, here reported at 2.0\xc3\x85 resolution, which shows an increased exposure of the haem propionates to the solvent, the analysis of ligand binding kinetics highlights high accessibility of ligands to the haem pocket in ferric MaPgb*-\xce\x94N20. CO binding to ferrous MaPgb*-\xce\x94N20 displays a marked biphasic behavior, with a fast binding process close to that observed in MaPgb* and a slow carbonylation process, characterized by a rate-limiting step. Conversely, removal of the first 33 residues induces a substantial perturbation of the overall MaPgb* structure, with loss of \xce\xb1-helical content and potential partial collapse of the protein chain. As such, ligand binding kinetics are characterized by very slow rates that are independent of ligand concentration, this being indicative of a high energy barrier for ligand access to the haem, possibly due to localized misfolding. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered vertebrate heme protein that is expressed in the brain and can reversibly bind oxygen. Mammalian Ngb is involved in neuroprotection under conditions of oxidative stress, such as ischemia and reperfusion. We previously found that zebrafish Ngb can penetrate the mammalian cell membrane. In the present study, we investigated the functional characteristics of fish Ngb by using the zebrafish cell line ZF4 and zebrafish retina. We found that zebrafish Ngb translocates into ZF4 cells, but cannot protect ZF4 cells against cell death induced by hydrogen peroxide. Furthermore, we demonstrated that a chimeric ZHHH Ngb protein, in which module M1 of human Ngb is replaced by that of zebrafish, is a cell-membrane-penetrating protein that can protect ZF4 cells against hydrogen peroxide exposure. Moreover, we investigated the localization of Ngb mRNA and protein in zebrafish retina and found that Ngb mRNA is expressed in amacrine cells in the inner nuclear layer and is significantly increased in amacrine cells 3days after optic nerve injury. Immunohistochemical studies clarified that Ngb protein levels were increased in both amacrine cells and presynaptic regions in the inner plexiform layer after nerve injury. Taken together, we hypothesize that fish Ngb, whose expression is upregulated in amacrine cells after optic nerve injury, might be released from amacrine cells, translocate into neighboring ganglion cells, and function in the early stage of optic nerve regeneration. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Hypoxia and oxidative stress are critical factors in carcinogenesis and exist throughout cancer development; however, the underlying mechanisms are far from clear. Here, for the first time to our knowledge, we reported that neuroglobin (Ngb), an intracellular hexa-coordinated globin serving as an oxygen/reactive oxygen species (ROS) sensor, functions as a tumor suppressor in hepatocelluar carcinoma (HCC). Ngb protein and mRNA expression were significantly down-regulated in tumor tissues, compared with its adjacent non-tumor tissues of human HCC samples and normal liver tissues. Knock-down of Ngb by RNA interference promoted human HCC cell line (HepG2) growth and proliferation, G0/G1-S transition in vitro, and tumor growth in vivo. On the contrary, overexpression of Ngb suppressed HepG2 cell growth and proliferation, G0/G1-S transition, colony formation in vitro, and tumorigenicity in vivo. These results established a tumor suppressor function of Ngb in HCC. The underlying mechanisms were further investigated. Overexpression of Ngb suppressed Raf/MEK/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk), whereas knockdown of Ngb enhanced Raf/MEK/Erk activation in HepG2 cells in vitro and in vivo. Glutathione S-transferase pull-down showed that Ngb interacted with c-Raf-1 in HepG2 cells. Overexpression of Ngb suppressed serum- and H\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x82-stimulated Erk activation in HepG2 cells. Pharmacological inhibition of Erk activation abolished the proliferative effect of Ngb knockdown in HepG2 cells. Mutation of Ngb at its oxygen-binding site (H64L) abolished the inhibitory effects of Ngb on Erk activation and HepG2 cell proliferation. Therefore, we propose that Ngb controls HCC development by linking oxygen/ROS signals to oncogenic Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/Erk signaling. Our data suggest that neuroglobin could be a new target for cancer therapy. labels: #Globins'
b'Hypoxic-ischemic injury increases neuroglobin (Ngb) expression in the brain. In our previous study, we have generated a transactivator-of-transcription protein-transduction domain-neuroglobin fusion protein (TAT PTD-Ngb) that successfully mediated exogenous Ngb expression in the primary neurons. In this study, we further investigated the role of TAT PTD-Ngb in protecting neurons against hypoxia-induced apoptosis and explored the possible mechanism. The primary cultured neurons were divided into four groups: (1) the normal group (no hypoxic injury); (2) the vehicle group (vehicle treatment and hypoxia injury); (3) the TAT PTD-Ngb group (TAT PTD-Ngb treatment and hypoxia injury); and (4) the Ngb group (Ngb treatment and hypoxia injury). Translocation of TAT PTD-Ngb into neurons was detected using fluorescent immunostaining against His-tag as early as 30\xc2\xa0min after incubation. MTT assay showed that the TAT PTD-Ngb group had significantly increased cell viability compared to the vehicle or Ngb group after hypoxia. The result of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) also displayed rescued ultrastructure in TAT PTD-Ngb neurons compared to that of apoptotic neurons. In addition, TAT PTD-Ngb neurons showed significantly increased expression of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein and decreased activities of caspase-3 and caspase-9 in response to hypoxia. These results suggest that TAT PTD-Ngb fusion protein protects primary cortical neurons against hypoxia-induced injury possibly through suppressing mitochondria apoptotic pathway. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: To examine the efficacy of trospium chloride and tolterodine on the renal parenchymal inflammatory process and upper urinary dilation in rats with chronic partial upper urinary tract obstruction.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 32 rats were divided into 4 groups: group 1, control; group 2, obstruction; group 3, obstruction plus tolterodine; and group 4, obstruction plus trospium chloride. In all groups, except for group 1, partial upper urinary tract obstruction was induced by embedding the upper quarter of the right ureter into the psoas muscle for 14 days. At the end of the experiment, the rats were killed. The catalase, malondialdehyde, and protein carbonyl levels were determined in renal tissue. Tubular dilation and parenchymal inflammation were evaluated using hematoxylin-eosin staining. Smooth muscle actin and cytoglobin were examined with immunohistochemical staining.RESULTS: The obstruction group demonstrated severe pelvic dilation and parenchymal inflammation and increased smooth muscle actin staining in the wall of upper urinary tract (P\xc2\xa0<.05). The treatment of the rats with tolterodine and trospium chloride markedly attenuated the inflammatory alterations and reduced tubular dilation. This treatment also reduced elevated oxidative stress product levels and restored the depleted renal antioxidant enzyme.CONCLUSION: These findings imply that increased renal pelvic pressure can contribute to renal parenchymal injury in chronic pelvic upper urinary tract obstruction. Antimuscarinic medications such as tolterodine and trospium chloride exert renoprotective effects, probably by prevention of pelvic pressure increases. labels: #Globins'
b'The sex steroid hormone 17\xce\xb2-estradiol (E2) upregulates the levels of neuroglobin (NGB), a new neuroprotectant globin, to elicit its neuroprotective effect against H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis. Several mechanisms could be proposed to justify the NGB involvement in E2 prevention of stress-induced apoptotic cell death. Here, we evaluate the ability of E2 to modulate the intracellular NGB localization and the NGB interaction with mitochondrial cytochrome c following the H(2)O(2)-induced toxicity. Present results demonstrate that NGB is expressed in the nuclei, mitochondria, and cytosol of human neuroblastoma SK-N-BE cells. E2, but not H(2)O(2) treatment of SK-N-BE cells, reallocates NGB mainly at the mitochondria and contemporarily reduces the number of apoptotic nuclei and the levels of cleaved caspase-3. Remarkably, the E2 treatment strongly increases NGB-cytochrome c association into mitochondria and reduces the levels of cytochrome c into the cytosol of SK-N-BE cells. Although both estrogen receptors (ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2) are expressed in the nucleus, mitochondria, and cytosol of SK-N-BE cells, this E2 effect specifically requires the mitochondrial ER\xce\xb2 activity. As a whole, these data demonstrate that the interception of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway into mitochondria (i.e., the prevention of cytochrome c release) is one of the pivotal mechanisms underlying E2-dependent NGB neuroprotection against H(2)O(2) toxicity. labels: #Globins'
b"BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a frequent form of senile dementia. Neuroglobin (Ngb) has a neuroprotective role and decreases A\xce\xb2 peptide levels. Ngb, promoting Akt phosphorylation, activates cell survival involving cyclic-nucleotide response element-binding protein (CREB). A new molecule (IBU-LA) was synthetized and administered to an AD rat model to counteract AD progression.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the IBU-LA-mediated induction of Ngb neuroprotective and antiapoptotic activities.METHODS: Brain morphology was analyzed through Bielschowsky staining, A\xce\xb2(1-40) and Ngb expression by immunohistochemistry. Akt, p-Akt, CREB and p-CREB expression was evaluated by Western blot, apoptosis through cytochrome C/Apaf 1 immunocomplex formation, and TUNEL analysis.RESULTS: Bielschowsky staining and A\xce\xb2(1-40) expression show few nerve connections and A\xce\xb2(1-40) expression in an A\xce\xb2 sample, preserved neuronal cells and A\xce\xb2(1-40) expression lowering in an IBU sample, mostly in IBU-LA. The Ngb level decreases in A\xce\xb2 samples, compared to control and IBU-LA samples. p-Akt/Akt and p-CREB/CREB ratios reveal a reduction in A\xce\xb2 sample, going back to the basal level in control and IBU-LA samples. Cytochrome C/Apaf 1 co-immunoprecipitate occurs and TUNEL-positive nuclei percentage decreases in A\xce\xb2 sample. Probe test performance shows an increased spatial reference memory in the IBU-LA compared to the A\xce\xb2 sample; no significant differences were seen between the IBU-LA and IBU samples.CONCLUSION: This evidence reveals that IBU-LA administration has the capability to maintain a high Ngb level allowing Ngb to perform a neuroprotective and antiapoptotic role, representing a valid tool in the therapeutic strategy of AD progression. labels: #Globins"
b'Human genome sequencing has resulted in a great body of data, including a stunningly large number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with unknown phenotypic manifestations. Identification and comprehensive analysis of regulatory SNPs in human gene promoters will help quantify the effects of these SNPs on human health. Based on our experimental and computer-aided study of SNPs in TATA boxes and the use of literature data, we have derived an equation for TBP/TATA equilibrium binding in three successive steps: TATA-binding protein (TBP) sliding along DNA due to their nonspecific affinity for each other \xe2\x86\x94 recognition of the TATA box \xe2\x86\x94 stabilization of the TBP/TATA complex. Using this equation, we have analyzed TATA boxes containing SNPs associated with human diseases and made in silico predictions of changes in TBP/TATA affinity. An electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA)-based experimental study performed under the most standardized conditions demonstrates that the experimentally measured values are highly correlated with the predicted values: the coefficient of linear correlation, r, was 0.822 at a significance level of \xce\xb1<10\xe2\x81\xbb\xe2\x81\xb7 for equilibrium K(D) values, (-ln K(D)), and 0.785 at a significance level of \xce\xb1<10\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb3 for changes in equilibrium K(D) (\xce\xb4) due to SNPs in the TATA boxes (\xce\xb4= -ln[K(D,TATAMut)]-(-ln[K(D,TATAMut)])). It has been demonstrated that the SNPs associated with increased risk of human diseases such as \xce\xb1-, \xce\xb2- and \xce\xb4-thalassemia, myocardial infarction and thrombophlebitis, changes in immune response, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, lung cancer and hemophilia B Leyden cause 2-4-fold changes in TBP/TATA affinity in most cases. The results obtained strongly suggest that the TBP/TATA equilibrium binding equation derived can be used for analysis of TATA-box sequences and identification of SNPs with a potential of being functionally important. labels: #Globins'
b'Multimeric globins (e.g., hemoglobin) are considered to be the prototypes of allosteric enzymes, whereas monomeric globins (e.g., myoglobin; Mb) usually are assumed to be non-allosteric. However, the modulation of the functional properties of monomeric globins by non-covalent (or allosteric) and covalent modifications casts doubts on this general assumption. Here, we report examples referable to these two extreme mechanisms modulating the reactivity of three mammalian monomeric globins. Sperm whale Mb, which acts as a reserve supply of O2 and facilitates the O2 flux within a myocyte, displays the allosteric modulation of the O2 affinity on lactate, an obligatory product of glycolysis under anaerobic conditions, thus facilitating O2 diffusion to the mitochondria in supporting oxidative phosphorylation. Human neuroglobin (NGB), which appears to protect neurons from hypoxia in vitro and in vivo, undergoes hypoxia-dependent phosphorylation (i.e., covalent modulation) affecting the coordination equilibrium of the heme-Fe atom and, in turn, the heme-protein reactivity. This facilitates heme-Fe-ligand binding and enhances the rate of anaerobic nitrite reduction to form NO, thus contributing to cellular adaptation to hypoxia. The reactivity of human cytoglobin (CYGB), which has been postulated to protect cells against oxidative stress, depends on both non-covalent and covalent mechanisms. In fact, the heme reactivity of CYGB depends on the lipid, such as oleate, binding which stabilizes the penta-coordination geometry of the heme-Fe atom. Lastly, the reactivity of NGB and CYGB is modulated by the redox state of the intramolecular CysCD7/CysD5 and CysB2/CysE9 residue pairs, respectively, affecting the heme-Fe atom coordination state. In conclusion, the modulation of monomeric globins reactivity by non-covalent and covalent modifications appears a very widespread phenomenon, opening new perspectives in cell survival and protection. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin, a globin characterized by a bis-histidine ligation of the heme iron, has been identified in mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates, including fish, amphibians and reptiles. In human neuroglobin, the presence of an internal disulfide bond in the CD loop (CD7-D5) is found to modulate the ligand binding through a change in the heme pocket structure. Although the neuroglobin sequences mostly display conserved Cys at positions CD7, D5 and G18/19, a number of exceptions are known. In this study, neuroglobins from amphibian (Xenopus tropicalis) and fish (Chaenocephalus aceratus, Dissostichus mawsoni and Danio rerio) are investigated using electron paramagnetic resonance and optical absorption spectroscopy. All these neuroglobins differ from human neuroglobin in their Cys-positions. It is demonstrated that if disulfide bonds are formed in fish and amphibian neuroglobins, the reduction of these bonds does not result in alteration of the heme pocket in these globins. Furthermore, it is shown that mutagenesis of the Cys residues of X. tropicalis neuroglobin influences the protein structure. The amphibian neuroglobin is also found to be more resistant to H2O2-induced denaturation than the other neuroglobins under study, although all show an overall large stability in high concentrations of this oxidant. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b"Hell's gate globin I (HGbI), a heme-containing protein from the extremophile Methylacidiphilum infernorum, has fast oxygen-binding/slow release characteristics due to its distal residues Gln and Tyr. The combination of Gln/Tyr distal iron coordination, adaptation to extreme environmental conditions, and lack of a D helix suggests that ligand migration in HGbI differs from other previously studied globins. Locally enhanced molecular dynamics trajectories of oxygen migration indicate a large internal cavity. This may increase the tendency of oxygen to exit from portals other than the most direct exit from the space near the heme. Oxygen may reside transiently in shallow surface depressions around the exits. Such surface trapping may enhance both oxygen uptake by increasing contact time between molecules, and decrease release by increasing the probability of oxygen reentry from the vicinity of the portal. labels: #Globins"
b'B-cell lymphoma 11A (BCL11A) downregulation in human primary adult erythroid progenitors results in elevated expression of fetal \xce\xb3-globin. Recent reports showed that BCL11A expression is activated by KLF1, leading to \xce\xb3-globin repression. To study regulation of erythropoiesis and globin expression by KLF1 and BCL11A in an in vivo model, we used mice carrying a human \xce\xb2-globin locus transgene with combinations of Klf1 knockout, Bcl11a floxed, and EpoR(Cre) knockin alleles. We found a higher percentage of reticulocytes in adult Klf1(wt/ko) mice and a mild compensated anemia in Bcl11a(cko/cko) mice. These phenotypes were more pronounced in compound Klf1(wt/ko)::Bcl11a(cko/cko) mice. Analysis of Klf1(wt/ko), Bcl11a(cko/cko), and Klf1(wt/ko)::Bcl11a(cko/cko) mutant embryos demonstrated increased expression of mouse embryonic globins during fetal development. Expression of human \xce\xb3-globin remained high in Bcl11a(cko/cko) embryos during fetal development, and this was further augmented in Klf1(wt/ko)::Bcl11a(cko/cko) embryos. After birth, expression of human \xce\xb3-globin and mouse embryonic globins decreased in Bcl11a(cko/cko) and Klf1(wt/ko)::Bcl11a(cko/cko) mice, but the levels remained much higher than those observed in control animals. Collectively, our data support an important role for the KLF1-BCL11A axis in erythroid maturation and developmental regulation of globin expression. labels: #Globins'
b'The (hemo-)globins are among the best-investigated proteins in biomedical sciences. These small heme-proteins play an important role in oxygen supply, but may also have other functions. In addition to well known hemoglobin and myoglobin, six other vertebrate globin types have been identified in recent years: neuroglobin, cytoglobin, globin E, globin X, globin Y, and androglobin. Analyses of the genome of the "living fossil" Latimeria chalumnae show that the coelacanth is the only known vertebrate that includes all eight globin types. Thus, Latimeria can also be considered as a "globin fossil". Analyses of gene synteny and phylogenetic reconstructions allow us to trace the evolution and the functional changes of the vertebrate globin family. Neuroglobin and globin X diverged from the other globin types before the separation of Protostomia and Deuterostomia. The cytoglobins, which are unlikely to be involved in O2 supply, form the earliest globin branch within the jawed vertebrates (Gnathostomata), but do not group with the agnathan hemoglobins, as it has been proposed before. There is strong evidence from phylogenetic reconstructions and gene synteny that the eye-specific globin E and muscle-specific myoglobin constitute a common clade, suggesting a similar role in intracellular O2 supply. Latimeria possesses two \xce\xb1- and two \xce\xb2-hemoglobin chains, of which one \xce\xb1-chain emerged prior to the divergence of Actinopterygii and Sarcopterygii, but has been retained only in the coelacanth. Notably, the embryonic hemoglobin \xce\xb1-chains of Gnathostomata derive from a common ancestor, while the embryonic \xce\xb2-chains - with the exception of a more complex pattern in the coelacanth and amphibians - display a clade-specific evolution. Globin Y is associated with the hemoglobin gene cluster, but its phylogenetic position is not resolved. Our data show an early divergence of distinct globin types in the vertebrate evolution before the emergence of tetrapods. The subsequent loss of globins in certain taxa may be associated with changes in the oxygen-dependent metabolism. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: To observe the effect of electroacupuncture (EA) preconditioning on cerebral ischemia and the role of cerebral neuroglobin (NgB) in EA-induced brain protection in focal cerebral ischemia and reperfusion injury (CI/RI) rats.METHODS: Male SD rats were randomly assigned to sham control, CI/RI 6 h, CI/RI 24 h and CI/RI 72 h groups (n = 6) for observing changes of NgB at different time-points. Additional SD rats were randomly assigned to sham, model, and EA preconditioning (EA-PC) groups (n = 16) for observing changes of cerebral NgB positive cell counts in the ischemic penumbra region 24 h after reperfusion. EA pre-conditioning was applied to "Baihui" (GV 20) for 30 min, once daily for 5 days before CI/RI. CI/RI model was established by occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery and reperfusion for 6 h, 24 h and 72 h respectively. The neurological behavior scores (NBS) of all the rats were evaluated according to Garcia\'s methods. The cerebral infarct volume was determined by 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining. The number of cerebral NgB positive cells was detected by immunofluorescent staining.RESULTS: No infarct loci were found in the sham group. The cerebral infarction volume percentage was significantly higher in the model group than in the EA-PC group (P<0.01), while the NBS was significantly lower in the model group than in the EA-PC group (P<0.01). The number of cerebral NgB positive cells in the ischemic penumbra was up-regulated 6 h after CI/RI injury, peaked at 24 h and continued at 72 h. Compared with the sham group, the number of cerebral NgB positive cells of the model group was increased significantly, whereas that of the EA-PC group up-regulated further obviously in comparison with the model group (P<0.01).CONCLUSION: EA pretreatment has a significant neuroprotective effect on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion, which is closely related to its effect in up-regulating NgB protein expression. labels: #Globins'
b'This work discloses two bona fide gates through which the CO ligand can leave the distal cavity of carboxy human cytoglobin, reaching the solvent. The investigation was based on molecular dynamics, aided by a minimal randomly-oriented force applied to the ligand. The shortest pathway progresses toward the main gate, H81-R84, in the open state, with the H81 imidazole moiety turned toward the solvent. A longer pathway develops toward the diametrically opposed W31-W151 gate. In between, CO may be entrapped into binding cavities, either along the path toward the gates, or in a cul-de-sac, from which CO may even be incapable to escape. This behavior contrasts with carboxy myoglobin, where the corresponding H64 gate, when opened, is the sole used by CO to get to the solvent. These observations, which could hold also for other small ligands of biological interest, such as O(2), NO, and NO(3)(-), provide an answer to a neglected aspect of the mysterious six-coordinated globins. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Changes in the intestinal and colonic proteome in patients with necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) may help to characterize the disease pathology and identify new biomarkers and treatment targets for NEC.METHODS: Using gel-based proteomics, proteins in NEC-affected intestinal and colonic sections were compared with those in adjacent, near-normal tissue sections within the same patients. Western blot and immunohistochemistry were applied to crossvalidate proteomic data and histological location of some selected proteins.RESULTS: Thirty proteins were identified with differential expression between necrotic and vital small-intestine sections and 23 proteins were identified for colon sections. Five proteins were similarly affected in the small intestine and colon: histamine receptors (HRs), actins, globins, immunoglobulin, and antitrypsin. Two heat shock proteins (HSPs) were affected in the small intestine. Furthermore, proteins involved in antioxidation, angiogenesis, cytoskeleton formation, and metabolism were affected. Finally, secretory proteins such as antitrypsin, fatty-acid binding protein 5, and haptoglobin differed between NEC-affected and vital tissues.CONCLUSION: NEC progression affects different pathways in the small intestine and colon. HSPs may play an important role, especially in the small intestine. The identified secretory proteins should be investigated as possible circulating markers of NEC progression in different gut regions. labels: #Globins'
b'AIMS: The carotid body (CB) represents the prime site for detecting and responding to hypoxia. Since the role of heroin in respiratory depression with consequent hypoxia is known, the authors were able to investigate morphological and molecular modifications occurring in the CB of heroin addicted subjects compared to subjects who died because of trauma.METHODS AND RESULTS: CB sampled from six 27 year old subjects, slides were treated with Mallory Trichrome staining or used for immunohistochemical analysis to detect Neuroglobin (NGB), Hypoxia Inducible Factor-1 (HIF-1\xce\xb1), Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF), Inducible Nitric Oxide Synthase (i-NOS), Bax and cleaved Caspase-3 proteins. Mallory Trichrome staining shows an increase in the connective tissue in heroin subjects compared to controls and a parallel reduction in parenchymal area. Immunohistochemical analyses in heroin subjects found a decrease in NGB and an increase in HIF-1\xce\xb1 and VEGF compared to controls; i-NOS expression was not statistically significant. Bax and cleaved caspase-3 were positive only in the heroin subjects.CONCLUSIONS: These results could confirm the typical hypoxic condition occurring in heroin addicts. Since NGB may function as a reactive oxygen or nitrogen species scavenger and as apoptotic cell death protector, the decrease in its expression may suggest a key role of this globin in human CB impairment due to heroin addiction. labels: #Globins'
b'To investigate the protective effect of polyethylene glycol (PEG) modified recombinant cytoglobin (PEG-rCygb) on acute liver damage in mice. The acute liver injury model of KM mice was induced by CCl4 and then treated with PEG-rCygb, The liver and blood samples were collected for biochemical and histopathological analysis. The results showed that PEG-rCygb reduced the liver mass index and decreased significantly the levels of alanine amiotransferase (AST) and aspartate transaminase (ALT) in mouse serum. In liver tissues, the content of malondialdehyde (MDA) was decreased, whereas the content of glutathione (GSH) was increased in PEG-rCygb treated group. PEG-rCygb also elevated the activities of total super oxidedismutase (T-SOD) and catalase (CAT) in liver tissues. HE staining of liver tissue slices revealed that PEG-rCygb relieved fatty degeneration of liver, decreased inflammatory factors and reduced liver cell injury. Further in vitro experiments indicated that the protective effects of PEG-rCygb on hepatic stellate cell (HSC) against H2O2 were enhanced compared with that of rCygb. All results indicated that the PEG-rCygb promoted oxygen free radical scavenging ability and prevented acute liver injury in KM mice induced by CCl4. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) was recently discovered in the human genome and localized in different tissues. It was suggested to play tissue-specific protective roles, spanning from scavenging of reactive oxygen species in neurons to supplying oxygen to enzymes in fibroblasts. To shed light on the functioning of such versatile machinery, we have studied the processes supporting transport of gaseous heme ligands in Cygb. Carbon monoxide rebinding shows a complex kinetic pattern with several distinct reaction intermediates, reflecting rebinding from temporary docking sites, second order recombination, and formation (and dissociation) of a bis-histidyl heme hexacoordinated reaction intermediate. Ligand exit to the solvent occurs through distinct pathways, some of which exploit temporary docking sites. The remarkable change in energetic barriers, linked to heme bis-histidyl hexacoordination by HisE7, may be responsible for active regulation of the flux of reactants and products to and from the reaction site on the distal side of the heme. A substantial change in both protein dynamics and inner cavities is observed upon transition from the CO-liganded to the pentacoordinated and bis-histidyl hexacoordinated species, which could be exploited as a signalling state. These findings are consistent with the expected versatility of the molecular activity of this protein. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Cytoglobin (Cygb) is the newest globin family and is upregulated during hypoxia to maintain the oxygen status. Herein, we investigated Cygb expression in both acute and chronic gastric mucosal injuries.METHODS: Acute gastric mucosal injuries in rats were produced by oral administration of indomethacin, followed by sacrifice at 1, 3, 6, 24, and 48 h. Gastric ulcer was produced by acetic acid, followed by sacrifice on days 3, 7, 11, 18, and 25. Each protein expression of Cygb and hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1\xce\xb1 was evaluated by western blotting. We measured vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) mRNA by RT-PCR and examined localization of Cygb by immunofluorescence.RESULTS: In indomethacin-induced injury, Cygb protein was significantly increased at 24 h. In ulcerated tissues, HIF-1\xce\xb1 protein was significantly increased on days 7 and 11 (1.83 \xc2\xb1 0.11 and 2.12 \xc2\xb1 0.19 folds, respectively, p<0.05 and 0.01), which corresponded to the early healing phase. In contrast, Cygb protein was significantly increased on days 11 and 18 (1.87 \xc2\xb1 0.13 and 1.60 \xc2\xb1 0.06 folds, respectively, p<0.05), which demonstrated late phase. Though these proteins peaked on day 11, VEGF mRNA was gradually increased from day 11 to 18. Cygb was expressed in fibroblasts and myofibroblasts in both acute and chronic models. Cygb and HIF-1\xce\xb1 were abundantly colocalized at the ulcer margin before angiogenesis development. However, faint localization was observed with angiogenesis.CONCLUSIONS: Cygb may be involved in the healing process of gastric mucosal injuries in the late phase without angiogenesis. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobins, previously thought to be restricted to vertebrate neurons, were detected in the brain of a photosymbiotic acoel, Symsagittifera roscoffensis, and in neurosensory cells of the jellyfish Clytia hemisphaerica. For the neuroglobin of S. roscoffensis, a member of a lineage that originated either at the base of the bilateria or of the deuterostome clade, we report the ligand binding properties, crystal structure at 2.3 \xc3\x85, and brain immunocytochemical pattern. We also describe in situ hybridizations of two neuroglobins specifically expressed in differentiating nematocytes (neurosensory cells) and in statocytes (ciliated mechanosensory cells) of C. hemisphaerica, a member of the early branching animal phylum cnidaria. In silico searches using these neuroglobins as queries revealed the presence of previously unidentified neuroglobin-like sequences in most metazoan lineages. Because neural systems are almost ubiquitous in metazoa, the constitutive expression of neuroglobin-like proteins strongly supports the notion of an intimate association of neuroglobins with the evolution of animal neural systems and hints at the preservation of a vitally important function. Neuroglobins were probably recruited in the first protoneurons in early metazoans from globin precursors. Neuroglobins were identified in choanoflagellates, sponges, and placozoans and were conserved during nervous system evolution. Because the origin of neuroglobins predates the other metazoan globins, it is likely that neuroglobin gene duplication followed by co-option and subfunctionalization led to the emergence of globin families in protostomes and deuterostomes (i.e. convergent evolution). labels: #Globins'
b"Aggregation is a social behavior that varies between and within species, providing a model to study the genetic basis of behavioral diversity. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, aggregation is regulated by environmental context and by two neuromodulatory pathways, one dependent on the neuropeptide receptor NPR-1 and one dependent on the TGF-\xce\xb2 family protein DAF-7. To gain further insight into the genetic regulation of aggregation, we characterize natural variation underlying behavioral differences between two wild-type C. elegans strains, N2 and CB4856. Using quantitative genetic techniques, including a survey of chromosome substitution strains and QTL analysis of recombinant inbred lines, we identify three new QTLs affecting aggregation in addition to the two known N2 mutations in npr-1 and glb-5. Fine-mapping with near-isogenic lines localized one QTL, accounting for 5%-8% of the behavioral variance between N2 and CB4856, 3' to the transcript of the GABA neurotransmitter receptor gene exp-1. Quantitative complementation tests demonstrated that this QTL affects exp-1, identifying exp-1 and GABA signaling as new regulators of aggregation. exp-1 interacts genetically with the daf-7 TGF-\xce\xb2 pathway, which integrates food availability and population density, and exp-1 mutations affect the level of daf-7 expression. Our results add to growing evidence that genetic variation affecting neurotransmitter receptor genes is a source of natural behavioral variation. labels: #Globins"
b'Nonsymbiotic hemoglobins (nsHbs) form a widely distributed class of plant proteins, which function remains unknown. Despite the fact that class 1 plant nonsymbiotic hemoglobins are hexacoordinate (6c) heme proteins (hxHbs), their hexacoordination equilibrium constants are much lower than in hxHbs from animals or bacteria. In addition, they are characterized by having very high oxygen affinities and low oxygen dissociation rate constants. Rice hemoglobin 1 (rHb1) is a class 1 nonsymbiotic hemoglobin. It crystallizes as a fully associated homodimer with both subunits in 6c state, but showing slightly different conformations, thus leading to an asymmetric crystallographic homodimer. The residues that constitute the dimeric interface are conserved among all nsHbs, suggesting that the quaternary structure could be relevant to explain the chemical behavior and biological function of this family of proteins. In this work, we analyze the molecular basis that determine the hexacoordination equilibrium in rHb1. Our results indicate that dynamical features of the quaternary structure significantly affect the hexacoordination process. Specifically, we observe that the pentacoordinate state is stabilized in the dimer with respect to the isolated monomers. Moreover, the dimer behaves asymmetrically, in a negative cooperative scheme. The results presented in this work are fully consistent with our previous hypothesis about the key role played by the nature of the CD region in determining the coordination state of globins. labels: #Globins'
b"Chironomus Meigen (Diptera, Chironomidae) larvae are usually the largest sediment-burrowing chironomids, and as such often constitute a major part of the freshwater infaunal biomass. However, use of this genus in ecological, environmental and paleoecological studies is hampered by the fact that Chironomus larvae are difficult to identify to species because the larvae of many species are morphologically similar. We used a combination of morphological, cytological and genetic techniques to distinguish Chironomus larvae collected from 31 water bodies located in eastern Canada, producing 17 distinguishable groupings. These groups of larvae were ultimately identified as belonging to 14 known species (C. anthracinus, C. bifurcatus, C. cucini, C. decorus-group sp. 2, C. dilutus, C. entis, C. frommeri, C. harpi, C. maturus, C. nr. atroviridis (sp. 2i), C. ochreatus, C. plumosus, C. staegeri and C. 'tigris') and three other species that remain unidentified (C. sp. NAI-III). No single approach served to delimit and identify larvae of all 17 Chironomus species that we collected. Although we expected that morphological criteria alone would be insufficient, our results suggest that DNA barcoding, using either the mitochondrial cox1 or the nuclear gb2\xce\xb2 gene, was also inadequate for separating some Chironomus species. Thus we suggest that multiple approaches will often be needed to correctly identify Chironomus larvae to species. labels: #Globins"
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb), a protein located in the mammal's brain, is involved in oxygen transport and free radical scavenging inside the neurons. Ngb colocalizes with choline acetyltransferase in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and in the pontine tegmental nucleus, both involved in the sleep-wake cycle regulation. Some studies have shown that free radicals accumulated during prolonged wakefulness are removed during sleep. Therefore, Ngb could act as a regulator of free radicals generated during prolonged wakefulness in the brain. The aim of this study was to determine whether prolonged wakefulness affects Ngb immunoreactivity because of increases in the oxidative stress induced by continuous neuronal activity. For this purpose, male adult Wistar rats were implanted with electrodes for sleep recordings and were divided into control and sleep-deprived groups. Sleep deprivation was carried out for 24 h by gentle handling of the animals. Sleep-wake activity was determined during the deprivation period or 24\xe2\x80\x89h of control conditions. Subsequently, both groups of animals were killed and their brains were obtained and processed for Ngb immunohistochemical analysis and detection of lipid peroxidation. Our data found no evidence of increased oxidative stress in the brains of sleep-deprived animals compared with the controls. The number of Ngb-positive cells was decreased in the sleep-deprived animals in all analyzed areas of the brain compared with the control group. Our results suggest that Ngb could be involved in sleep regulation, independent of its role in the control of oxidative stress. labels: #Globins"
b'Methanosarcina acetivorans is a strictly anaerobic non-motile methane-producing Archaea expressing protoglobin (Pgb) which might either facilitate O(2) detoxification or act as a CO sensor/supplier in methanogenesis. Unusually, M. acetivorans Pgb (MaPgb) binds preferentially O(2) rather than CO and displays anticooperativity in ligand binding. Here, kinetics and/or thermodynamics of ferric and ferrous MaPgb (MaPgb(III) and MaPgb(II), respectively) nitrosylation are reported. Data were obtained between pH 7.2 and 9.5, at 22.0 \xc2\xb0C. Addition of NO to MaPgb(III) leads to the transient formation of MaPgb(III)-NO in equilibrium with MaPgb(II)-NO(+). In turn, MaPgb(II)-NO(+) is converted to MaPgb(II) by OH(-)-based catalysis. Then, MaPgb(II) binds NO very rapidly leading to MaPgb(II)-NO. The rate-limiting step for reductive nitrosylation of MaPgb(III) is represented by the OH(-)-mediated reduction of MaPgb(II)-NO(+) to MaPgb(II). Present results highlight the potential role of MaPgb in scavenging of reactive nitrogen and oxygen species. labels: #Globins'
b'Globins occur in all kingdoms of life where they fulfill a wide variety of functions. In the past they used to be primarily characterized as oxygen transport/storage proteins, but since the discovery of new members of the globin family like neuroglobin and cytoglobin, more diverse and complex functions have been assigned to this heterogeneous family. Here we propose a function for a membrane-bound globin of C. elegans, GLB-26. This globin was predicted to be myristoylated at its N-terminus, a post-translational modification only recently described in the globin family. In vivo, this globin is found in the membrane of the head mesodermal cell and in the tail stomato-intestinal and anal depressor muscle cells. Since GLB-26 is almost directly oxidized when exposed to oxygen, we postulate a possible function as electron transfer protein. Phenotypical studies show that GLB-26 takes part in regulating the length of the defecation cycle in C. elegans under oxidative stress conditions. labels: #Globins'
b'We report the functional analysis of an artificial hexacoordinate oxygen transport protein, HP7, which operates via a mechanism similar to that of human neuroglobin and cytoglobin: the destabilization of one of two heme-ligating histidine residues. In the case of HP7, this is the result of the coupling of histidine side chain ligation with the burial of three charged glutamate residues on the same helix. Here we compare gaseous ligand binding, including rates, affinities, and oxyferrous state lifetimes, of both heme binding sites in HP7. We find that despite the identical sequence of helices in both binding sites, there are differences in oxygen affinity and oxyferrous state lifetime that may be the result of differences in the freedom of motion imposed by the candelabra fold on the two sites of the protein. We further examine the effect of mutational removal of the buried glutamates on function. Heme iron in the ferrous state of this mutant is rapidly oxidized when exposed to oxygen. Compared to that of HP7, the distal histidine affinity is increased by a 22-fold decrease in the histidine ligand off rate. Electron paramagnetic resonance comparison of these ferric hemoproteins demonstrates that the mutation increases the level of disorder at the heme binding site. Nuclear magnetic resonance-detected deuterium exchange demonstrates that the mutation greatly increases the degree of penetration of water into the protein core. The inability of the mutant protein to bind oxygen may be due to an increased level of water penetration, the large decrease in binding rate caused by the increase in distal histidine affinity, or a combination of the two factors. Together, these data underline the importance of the control of protein dynamics in the design of functional artificial proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'In this paper, a novel 3D graphical representation of DNA sequence based on codons is proposed. Since there is not loss of information due to overlapping and containing loops, this representation will be useful for comparison of different DNA sequences. This 3D curve will be convenient for DNA mutations comparison specially. In continues we give a numerical characterization of DNA sequences based on the new 3D curve. This characterization facilitates quantitative comparisons of similarities/dissimilarities analysis of DNA sequences based on codons. labels: #Globins'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) of the anterior hypothalamus by resonance Raman spectroscopy (514.5 nm) to determine if it is possible to enhance the Raman scattering of hemoproteins in fresh brain tissue slices. The resonance effect was compared  with near-infrared Raman spectra. Two groups of male Sprague Dawley rats were studied, one control group on a normal diet and one group on a low-iron diet to evoke iron deficiency. Each group consisted of four rats, 38-41 days old. The diets lasted for 11, 12, and 15 days. The MPN regions  of brain tissue slices were analyzed by monitoring raw and pre-processed mean data, by cluster analysis, and by deriving difference spectra from pre-processed mean spectra. Cluster analysis of the resonance Raman spectra could identify different hemoprotein groups, namely, hemoglobin (Hb)  and neuroglobin (Ngb). Spectra from randomly distributed spots revealed high Hb content, whereas Ngb was evenly distributed in the MPN. The different spectra showed a decrease of the Ngb and lipid content for the animals on the low-iron diet. The Ngb decrease was approximately 20%. The data  show that resonance Raman spectroscopy is well suited to study hemoproteins in fresh brain tissue. labels: #Globins'
b'The Antarctic icefish Chaenocephalus aceratus lacks the globins common to most vertebrates, hemoglobin and myoglobin, but has retained neuroglobin in the brain. This conserved globin has been cloned, over-expressed and purified. To highlight similarities and differences, the structural features of the neuroglobin of this colourless-blooded fish were compared with those of the well characterised human neuroglobin as well as with the neuroglobin from the retina of the red blooded, hemoglobin and myoglobin-containing, closely related Antarctic notothenioid Dissostichus mawsoni. A detailed structural and functional analysis of the two Antarctic fish neuroglobins was carried out by UV-visible and Resonance Raman spectroscopies, molecular dynamics simulations and laser-flash photolysis. Similar to the human protein, Antarctic fish neuroglobins can reversibly bind oxygen and CO in the Fe(2+) form, and show six-coordination by distal His in the absence of exogenous ligands. A very large and structured internal cavity, with discrete docking sites, was identified in the modelled three-dimensional structures of the Antarctic neuroglobins. Estimate of the free-energy barriers from laser-flash photolysis and Implicit Ligand Sampling showed that the cavities are accessible from the solvent in both proteins.Comparison of structural and functional properties suggests that the two Antarctic fish neuroglobins most likely preserved and possibly improved the function recently proposed for human neuroglobin in ligand multichemistry. Despite subtle differences, the adaptation of Antarctic fish neuroglobins does not seem to parallel the dramatic adaptation of the oxygen carrying globins, hemoglobin and myoglobin, in the same organisms. labels: #Globins'
b'Heme synthesis partially occurs in the mitochondrial matrix; thus there is a high probability that enzymes and intermediates important in the production of heme will be exposed to metabolic by-products including reactive oxygen species. In addition, the need for ferrous iron for heme production, Fe/S coordination, and other processes occurring in the mitochondrial matrix suggests that aberrant fluxes of reactive oxygen species in this compartment might perturb normal iron homeostasis. Manganese superoxide dismutase (Sod2) is an antioxidant enzyme that governs steady-state levels of the superoxide in the mitochondrial matrix. Using hematopoietic stem cell-specific conditional Sod2 knockout mice we observed increased superoxide concentrations in red cell progeny, which caused significant pathologies including impaired erythrocytes and decreased ferrochelatase activity. Animals lacking Sod2 expression in erythroid precursors also displayed extramedullary hematopoiesis and systemic iron redistribution. Additionally, the increase in superoxide flux in erythroid precursors caused abnormal gene regulation of hematopoietic transcription factors, globins, and iron-response genes. Moreover, the erythroid precursors also displayed evidence of global changes in histone posttranslational modifications, a likely cause of at least some of the aberrant gene expression noted. From a therapeutic translational perspective, mitochondrially targeted superoxide-scavenging antioxidants partially rescued the observed phenotype. Taken together, our findings illuminate the superoxide sensitivity of normal iron homeostasis in erythrocyte precursors and suggest a probable link between mitochondrial redox metabolism and epigenetic control of nuclear gene regulation during mammalian erythropoiesis. labels: #Globins'
b'Phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinases (PIPKs) are  enzymes that participate in diverse intracellular signaling pathways. They are  classified into 3 functionally distinct subfamilies - PIPKI (\xce\xb1, \xce\xb2, \xce\xb3), PIPKII  (\xce\xb1, \xce\xb2, \xce\xb3), and PIPKIII - located in various subcellular compartments. Recently,  the PIPKII\xce\xb1 and \xce\xb2-globin genes were found to be overexpressed in reticulocytes  from 2 siblings with hemoglobin H disease, suggesting a possible relationship  between PIPKIIa and the production of globins. The main aim of this study was  to determine the expression profiles of PIPK genes in healthy individuals  during in vitro erythropoiesis using quantitative real-time polymerase  chain reaction and to compare these profiles with profiles of globin genes. Our  results showed that expression of all PIPKs increases as the cells  differentiate, coinciding with the expression profiles of globins. Analysis of  the effects of globins on PIPK genes revealed that they varied significantly between  the globins, the most noticeable being the effect of \xce\xb1-globin on PIPKII\xce\xb1 (P<0.0001) and \xce\xb3-globin on PIPKII\xce\xb3 (P<0.0001). The relationship between  the expression of PIPKs and globin genes was statistically significant,  particularly between PIPKII\xce\xb1 and \xce\xb1-globin (P = 0.0002) and PIPKII\xce\xb3 and \xce\xb2-globin  (P<0.0001). Linear correlation analysis revealed a strong relationship between  PIPKII\xce\xb1 and \xce\xb1-globin genes. This study is the first to establish the expression  profiles of PIPK genes during in vitro erythropoiesis in healthy  individuals and suggests a parallel between the expression of PIPK and globin  genes, reinforcing the hypothesis that they may be related. labels: #Globins'
b'The \xce\xb2-thalassemia syndromes reflect deficient or absent \xce\xb2-globin synthesis usually owing to a mutation in the \xce\xb2-globin locus. The relative excess of \xce\xb1-globin results in the formation of insoluble aggregates leading to ineffective erythropoiesis and shortened red cell survival. A relatively high capacity for fetal hemoglobin synthesis is a major genetic modifier of disease severity, with polymorphisms in other genes also having a significant role. Iron overload secondary to enhanced absorption and red cell transfusions causes an increase in liver iron and in various other tissues, leading to endocrine and cardiac dysfunction. Modern chelation regimens are effective in removing iron and preserving or restoring organ function. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb), so named after its initial discovery in brain neurones, has received great attention as a result of its neuroprotective effects both in vitro and in vivo. Recently, we demonstrated that, in neurones, Ngb is a 17\xce\xb2-oestradiol (E(2) ) inducible protein that is pivotal for hormone-induced anti-apoptotic effects against H(2) O(2)  toxicity. The involvement of Ngb in other brain cell populations, as well as in other neuroprotective effects of E(2) , is completely unknown at present. We demonstrate Ngb immunoreactivity in reactive astrocytes located in the proximity of a penetrating cortical injury in vivo and the involvement of Ngb in the E(2) -mediated anti-inflammatory effect in primary cortical astrocytes. Upon binding to oestrogen receptor (ER)\xce\xb2, E(2)  enhances Ngb levels in a dose-dependent manner. Although with a lesser degree than E(2) , the pro-inflammatory stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) also induces the increase of Ngb protein levels via nuclear factor-(NF)\xce\xbaB signal(s). Moreover, a negative cross-talk between ER subtypes and NF\xce\xbaB signal(s) has been demonstrated. In particular, ER\xce\xb1-activated signals prevent the NF\xce\xbaB-mediated Ngb increase, whereas LPS impairs the ER\xce\xb2-induced up-regulation of Ngb. Therefore, the co-expression of both ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 is pivotal for mediating E(2) -induced Ngb expression in the presence of NF\xce\xbaB-activated signals. Interestingly, Ngb silencing prevents the effect of E(2)  on the expression of inflammatory markers (i.e. interleukin 6 and interferon \xce\xb3-inducible protein 10). Ngb can be regarded as a key mediator of the different protective effects of E(2)  in the brain, including protection against oxidative stress and the control of inflammation, both of which are at the root of several neurodegenerative diseases. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) has been demonstrated to be a novel neuroprotective protein that protects against hypoxia/ischemia and oxidative stress-induced injury in the nervous system. However, the regulation mechanisms of Ngb gene expression under both normal resting and stress conditions have not been fully elucidated. The cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) is a key transcription factor that regulates a variety of pro-survival genes, but its role in regulating the neuroprotective gene Ngb has not been studied. In this study we investigated the transcriptional regulation of mouse Ngb gene by CREB in mouse neuroblastoma cell line N2a. Our results showed that CREB knockdown decreased Ngb gene expression, and overexpression of the wild-type CREB, but not the mutant CREB, significantly increased Ngb gene expression in N2a cells. Moreover, a cAMP response element (CRE) site located at -854 in the promoter region of mouse Ngb gene was found to be responsible for both basal and CREB-induced Ngb promoter activity. Using chromatin immunopreciptation (ChIP) assays, we found that CREB could bind to the Ngb promoter region spanning from -1016 to -793 that harbors the CRE site. Taken together, our results suggested that transcription factor CREB participates in the transcriptional regulation of mouse Ngb gene. labels: #Globins'
b'Recent evidence suggests that limb ischemic preconditioning (LIP) protects neurons against cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury. However, the mechanisms of LIP are not well understood. Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered globin that affords protection against hypoxic/ischemic brain injury. This study was performed to investigate the role of Ngb in the neuroprotection of LIP against brain ischemia and the involvements of mitochondria in the process. The rat global brain ischemic model was used, and the CA1 hippocampus was selected as the observational target. Ngb expression was investigated by RT-PCR and Western blot. Neuropathological evaluation was performed by thionin staining. Mitochondrial membrane potential (\xce\x94\xcf\x88m), Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity, and ultrastructure were examined by flow cytometry, spectrophotometry, and transmission electron microscopy, respectively. We also used Ngb antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (AS-ODNs) and Ngb inducer hemin to inhibit or mimic the effect of LIP. We found that LIP significantly up-regulated Ngb expression and protected neurons against ischemia. Furthermore, LIP effectively improved deterioration in the \xce\x94\xcf\x88m, mitochondrial Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity, and ultrastructure induced by cerebral ischemia. These effects of LIP were inhibited partly by Ngb AS-ODNs and mimicked by hemin. It could be concluded that up-regulation of Ngb expression played an important role in the neuroprotection induced by LIP, and the Ngb-mediated neuroprotection of LIP was, at least partly, associated with mitochondria. labels: #Globins'
b'The different stunning methods for Atlantic salmon can still be improved with regard to animal welfare. Salmon exposed to carbon monoxide expressed no aversive reactions towards CO as such. CO exposed fish showed an earlier onset of rigour mortis and a faster decrease in muscle pH due to depletion of oxygen during the treatment. Exposure to CO did increase the level of cortisol compared to undisturbed control fish, but the increase was less than in the water only control group. Neuroglobin, a CO binding globin, was found in salmon brain and Saccus vasculosus, a richly vascularized sac connected to the fish brain. Binding of CO to neuroglobin during sedation might possibly improve animal welfare. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin belongs to the family of hexacoordinate hemoglobins and has been implicated in the protection of neuronal tissue under hypoxic and ischemic conditions. Here we present transient absorption and photoacoustic calorimetry studies of CO photodissociation and bimolecular rebinding to neuroglobin focusing on the ligand migration process and the role of distal pocket residues (His64 and Val68) and two Cys residues (Cys55 and Cys120). Our results indicate that His64 has a minor impact on the migration of CO between the distal heme pocket and protein exterior, whereas the Val68 side chain regulates the transition of the photodissociated ligand between the distal pocket and internal hydrophobic cavities, which is evident from the increased geminate quantum yield in this mutated protein (\xce\xa6(gem) = 0.32 for WT and His64Gln, and \xce\xa6(gem) = 0.85 for Val68Phe). The interface between helix G and the A-B loop provides an escape pathway for the photodissociated ligand, which is evident from a decrease in the reaction enthalpy for the transition between the CO-bound hNgb and five-coordinate hNgb in the Cys120Ser mutant (\xce\x94H = -3 \xc2\xb1 4 kcal mol(-1)) compared to that of the WT protein (\xce\x94H = 20 \xc2\xb1 4 kcal mol(-1)). The extensive electrostatic/hydrogen binding network that includes heme propionate groups, Lys67, His64, and Tyr44 not only restricts the heme binding but also modulates the energetics of binding of CO to the five-coordinate hNgb as substitution of His64 with Gln leads to an endothermic association of CO with the five-coordinate hNgb (\xce\x94H = 6 \xc2\xb1 3 kcal mol(-1)). labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin and cytoglobin are new members of the heme-globin family. Both globins are primarily expressed in neurons of the brain and retina. Neuroglobin and cytoglobin have been suggested as novel therapeutic targets in various neurodegenerative diseases based on their oxygen binding and cell protecting properties. However, findings in Neuroglobin-deficient mice question the endogenous neuroprotective properties. The expression pattern of neuroglobin and cytoglobin in the rodent brain is also in contradiction to a major role of neuronal protection. In a recent study, neuroglobin was ubiquitously expressed and up-regulated following stroke in the human brain. The present study aimed at confirming our previous observations in rodents using two post-mortem human brains. The anatomical localization of neuroglobin and cytoglobin in the human brain is much like what has been described for the rodent brain. Neuroglobin is highly expressed in the hypothalamus, amygdale and in the pontine tegmental nuclei, but not in the hippocampus. Cytoglobin is highly expressed in the habenula, hypothalamus, thalamus, hippocampus and the pontine tegmental nuclei. We only detected a low expression of neuroglobin and cytoglobin in the cerebral cortex, while no expression in the cerebellar cortex was detectable. We provide a neuroanatomical indication for a different role of neuroglobin and cytoglobin in the human brain. labels: #Globins'
b'Peripheral whole blood is relatively easily obtained for monitoring gene expression for biomarker discovery using transcriptomic platforms such as genome-wide microarrays. However, whole blood provides challenges caused by sensitivity for ex\xc2\xa0vivo incubation and overrepresentation of globin mRNAs. We compared the performance of 2 commercial whole blood preservation methods, TEMPUS (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA) and PAXgene (PreAnalytiX, Qiagen BD, Valencia, CA), using 2 RNA amplification protocols and high-density microarrays. Performance of commercial globin mRNA reduction protocol also was studied. Human peripheral blood samples collected with TEMPUS and PAXgene Blood RNA tubes were amplified with the RiboAmp OA 1 Round RNA Amplification Kit (Arcturus; Applied Biosystems) and the Affymetrix (Santa Clara, CA) small sample protocol. Affymetrix globin reduction protocol was applied for total RNA samples. Samples amplified with RiboAmp were hybridized on Illumina Sentrix HumanRef-8 Expression BeadChips (Illumina Inc, San Diego, CA) and subjected to statistical analyses. RiboAmp mRNA amplification did not notably amplify globin mRNA that is overrepresented in RNA isolated by both TEMPUS and PAXgene preservation. Enzymatic depletion of globin transcript reduced the quality of total RNA and is thus not recommendable. Microarray analysis showed acceptable correlation within and between the RNA preservation methods, but altogether 443 transcripts were differentially expressed between RNA samples preserved in TEMPUS and PAXgene tubes. We demonstrated that the 2 tested blood RNA-preservation methods combined with RiboAmp mRNA amplification may be used for microarray experiments without the need for a prior globin RNA reduction. However, because genes involved in immune cell functions and gene regulatory pathways were differentially expressed as a result of the technical bias between the preservation methods, they should not be used in the same analytic setting. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a globin present in the brain and retina of mammals. This hexacoordinated hemoprotein binds small diatomic molecules, albeit with lower affinity compared with other globins. Another distinctive feature of most mammalian Ngb is their ability to form an internal disulfide bridge that increases ligand affinity. As often seen for prosthetic heme b containing proteins, human Ngb exhibits heme heterogeneity with two alternative heme orientations within the heme pocket. To date, no details are available on the impact of heme orientation on the binding properties of human Ngb and its interplay with the cysteine oxidation state. In this work, we used (1)H NMR spectroscopy to probe the cyanide binding properties of different Ngb species in solution, including wild-type Ngb and the single (C120S) and triple (C46G/C55S/C120S) mutants. We demonstrate that in the disulfide-containing wild-type protein cyanide ligation is fivefold faster for one of the two heme orientations (the A isomer) compared with the other isomer, which is attributed to the lower stability of the distal His64-iron bond and reduced steric hindrance at the bottom of the cavity for heme sliding in the A conformer. We also attribute the slower cyanide reactivity in the absence of a disulfide bridge to the tighter histidine-iron bond. More generally, enhanced internal mobility in the CD loop bearing the disulfide bridge hinders access of the ligand to heme iron by stabilizing the histidine-iron bond. The functional impact of heme disorder and cysteine oxidation state on the properties of the Ngb ligand is discussed. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a hexacoordinated globin expressed mainly in the central and peripheral nervous system of vertebrates. Although several hypotheses have been put forward regarding the role of neuroglobin, its definite function remains uncertain. Ngb appears to have a neuro-protective role enhancing cell viability under hypoxia and other types of oxidative stress. Ngb is phylogenetically ancient and has a substitution rate nearly four times lower than that of other vertebrate globins, e.g. hemoglobin. Despite its high sequence conservation among vertebrates Ngb seems to be elusive in invertebrates.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We determined candidate orthologs in invertebrates and identified a globin of the placozoan Trichoplax adhaerens that is most likely orthologous to vertebrate Ngb and confirmed the orthologous relationship of the polymeric globin of the sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus to Ngb. The putative orthologous globin genes are located next to genes orthologous to vertebrate POMT2 similarly to localization of vertebrate Ngb. The shared syntenic position of the globins from Trichoplax, the sea urchin and of vertebrate Ngb strongly suggests that they are orthologous. A search for conserved transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) in the promoter regions of the Ngb genes of different vertebrates via phylogenetic footprinting revealed several TFBSs, which may contribute to the specific expression of Ngb, whereas a comparative analysis with myoglobin revealed several common TFBSs, suggestive of regulatory mechanisms common to globin genes.SIGNIFICANCE: Identification of the placozoan and echinoderm genes orthologous to vertebrate neuroglobin strongly supports the hypothesis of the early evolutionary origin of this globin, as it shows that neuroglobin was already present in the placozoan-bilaterian last common ancestor. Computational determination of the transcription factor binding sites repertoire provides on the one hand a set of transcriptional factors that are responsible for the specific expression of the Ngb genes and on the other hand a set of factors potentially controlling expression of a couple of different globin genes. labels: #Globins'
b'Transcriptional corepressor ETO2 is a component of a protein complex containing master regulators of hematopoiesis, including GATA-1, SCL/TAL1, LMO2, and LDB1. To elucidate the role of ETO2 during erythroid differentiation, including the effects of ETO2 on GATA-1 targets, we performed gene expression profiling using K562 cells overexpressed with ETO2. The analysis demonstrated that 667 and 598 genes were upregulated and downregulated (more than twofold), respectively, in ETO2-overexpressing cells. ETO2-repressed genes included those encoding prototypical erythroid proteins. To test what percentages of ETO2-repressed genes could be direct target genes of GATA-1 in K562 cells, we merged the microarray results with ChIP-seq profile (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa05,749), demonstrating that 23.1% of ETO2-repressed genes contained significant GATA-1 in their loci. However, there was no significant enrichment of PU.1 target genes among ETO2-repressed genes. Gene ontology analysis among ETO2-repressed genes revealed significant enrichment of genes related to "oxygen transporter," corresponding to globin genes. Quantitative chromatin immunoprecipitation and ETO2 knockdown analyses confirmed that ETO2 directly regulates globin genes in K562 cells. Next, we evaluated the role of ETO2 in human primary erythroblasts, derived from cord blood CD34-positive cells. In an ex\xc2\xa0vivo model of erythroid differentiation from CD34-positive cells, ETO2 protein level peaked at day 2-4 and almost diminished at the later stage of differentiation. Furthermore, short hairpin RNA-mediated knockdown and retroviral vector-mediated overexpression of ETO2 in primary erythroblasts suggested that ETO2 significantly represses HBB, HBA, and ALAS2 expression. In summary, ETO2 regulates GATA-1 target genes critical for erythroid differentiation, and the decrease of ETO2 levels during erythroid differentiation would contribute to the activation of these targets. labels: #Globins'
b'Chromatin remodeling is essential for controlling the expression of genes during development. The histone-modifying enzyme G9a/KMT1C can act both as a coactivator and a corepressor of transcription. Here, we show that the dual function of G9a as a coactivator vs. a corepressor entails its association within two distinct protein complexes, one containing the coactivator Mediator and one containing the corepressor Jarid1a/KDM5A. Functionally, G9a is important in stabilizing the Mediator complex for gene activation, whereas its repressive function entails a coordinate action with the histone H3 lysine 4 (H3K4) demethylase Jarid1a for the maintenance of gene repression. The essential nature of cross-talk between the histone methyltransferase G9a and the demethylase Jarid1a is demonstrated on the embryonic E(y)-globin gene, where the concurrent introduction of repressive histone marks (dimethylated H3K9 and dimethylated H3K27) and removal of activating histone mark (trimethylated H3K4) is required for maintenance of gene silencing. Taken together with our previous demonstration of cross-talk between UTX and MLL2 to mediate activation of the adult \xce\xb2(maj)-globin gene, these data suggest a model where "active" and "repressive" cross-talk between histone-modifying enzymes coexist on the same multigene locus and play a crucial role in the precise control of developmentally regulated gene expression. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Local recurrence in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) despite clear surgical margins may indicate the presence of residual, sub-microscopic disease. Molecular assessment of surgical margins may provide a greater prognostic sensitivity compared to histopathology. We aimed to determine whether promoter methylation in deep and mucosal resection margins can predict recurrence in OSCC.METHODS: Forty-eight consecutive OSCC cases were recruited and a 5\xc2\xa0mm(3) tumor sample plus 5 deep and 5 mucosal margin samples were snap frozen. Clinical, pathological, adjuvant therapy, and outcome data were recorded. Tumors were informative if>5\xc2\xa0% promoter methylation was found for \xe2\x89\xa51 of 4 genes using qMSP. Margins were declared molecularly positive if>1\xc2\xa0% promoter methylation was found in any margin.RESULTS: Thirty (63\xc2\xa0%) of 48 cases were methylation informative. Mucosal margin samples were largely positive for methylation (26 of 30, 87\xc2\xa0%), indicating the presence of field cancerization. Methylation at \xe2\x89\xa51 gene promoters in \xe2\x89\xa51 deep margin correlated with the presence of close/involved mucosal margins (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.027) and increased pT status (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.027) but not the status of deep margins, recurrence, or survival.CONCLUSIONS: The current gene panel did not add prognostic information to histopathological reporting of resection margins. Future efforts should concentrate on improving gene selection, informativity, and assay performance in the patient group with intermediate indications for adjuvant therapy. labels: #Globins'
b'Hypoxia inducible factor 1(HIF-1\xce\xb1) is the regulator of oxygen homeostasis in tissue correlated with neuroglobin (NGB) a member of the family of globins in vertebrates. The present study investigates, the expression and the location of NGB, HIF-1\xce\xb1 in human carotid bodies, sampled at autopsy from children (mean age: 2 year \xc2\xb1), young (mean age: 27.5) and 4 old subjects (mean age: 73.5). The percentage of NGB positive area was higher in the old subjects (4.4 \xc2\xb12.8%), as compared with the young ones (2.4 \xc2\xb11.8%) and children (1.0 \xc2\xb11.8%). Positive HIF-1\xce\xb1 nuclei were detected in young and old subjects (1.0 \xc2\xb10.14% vs 3.0 \xc2\xb10.28%, respectively), whereas CB tissues from children did not show any HIF-1\xce\xb1 reaction. The increase of NGB and HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression suggests a possible role of the two oxygen sensors in the aging processes. Even though the physiological role of NGB is not well understood, it could be suggested that is act as a respiratory protein connected with HIF. labels: #Globins'
b'PURPOSE: Different synthetic and natural biomaterials have been used in bone tissue regeneration. However, several limitations are associated with the use of synthetic as well as allogenous or xenogenous natural materials. This study evaluated, in an in vitro model, the behavior of rat osteoblastic cells cultured on a human globin scaffold.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rat osteoblastic cells were isolated from the calvaria of 21-day-old fetal Sprague-Dawley rats. They were then grown in the presence of globin. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to study the expression of cyclin D1, integrin \xce\x921, Msx2, Dlx5, Runx2, and osteocalcin on days 1, 5, and 9. Moreover, alkaline phosphatase activity was measured on days 1, 3, 5, and 7. Alizarin red staining was performed on day 9 to observe calcium deposition.RESULTS: Cells were able to adhere, proliferate, and differentiate on globin scaffolds. Moreover, RT-PCR showed that globin may stimulate some key genes of osteoblastic differentiation (Runx2, osteocalcin, Dlx5). Globin had an inhibitory effect on alkaline phosphatase activity. Calcium deposits were seen after 9 days of culture.CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that purified human globin might be a suitable scaffold for bone tissue regeneration. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) exists only in small amounts in salmon brain. In order to study the protein in more detail salmon neuroglobin (sNgb) was cloned, heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli and purified. The protein had red color and showed the characteristic peaks at 411nm (metNgb), 415nm (carboxyNgb) and 424nm (deoxyNgb). Western analysis showed that sNgb reacted weakly against a rabbit anti human neuroglobin (hNgb) and strongly to a sNgb specific antibody. Our 3D-homology model of the sNgb indicated modifications adjacent to and in the O(2)/CO binding site. This may correlate to differences in substrate affinities for the sNgb compared to the hNgb. Also sNgb contained shorter helixes and longer interhelical loops typical for psychrophilic proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a member of the globin superfamily expressed in vertebrate brain and retina. The protein is thought to be involved in neuronal protection from hypoxia or oxidative stress and could represent a key element of Alzheimer disease pathogenesis. Our aim was to determine whether neuroglobin could be directly associated with mitochondrial metabolism and integrity. We identified three different forms of neuroglobin in the retina, varying in their apparent molecular masses; all forms are abundant in mitochondrial fractions. This indicates that a significant fraction of the protein localizes within the organelle either in the matrix or in the matrix side of the inner membrane. Since neuroglobin was especially abundant in the ganglion cell layer, we transduced retinal ganglion cells with an anti-neuroglobin short hairpin RNA using in vivo electroporation. Neuroglobin knockdown leads to reduced activities of respiratory chain complexes I and III, degeneration of retinal ganglion cells, and impairment of visual function. The deleterious effect on cell survival was confirmed in primary retinal ganglion cells subjected to inhibition of neuroglobin expression. Hence, neuroglobin should be considered as a novel mitochondrial protein involved in respiratory chain function which is essential for retinal ganglion cell integrity. labels: #Globins'
b'Tibetan chicken (Gallus gallus) is a specific chicken breed with strong ability to resist hypoxia, especially during embryonic stage. Though this breed has lived in Tibet plateau for thousands of years, the adaptive mechanism in response to hypoxia is still unknown. In order to obtain a better understanding of the mechanism of hypoxic adaptability in high altitude, we analyzed the mRNA expression pattern of globins in the present study. The fertilized eggs from Tibetan chicken and dwarf recessive white chicken breeds were incubated under normoxic (21% O2) and hypoxic (13% O2) conditions, equivalent to the altitude of 3600m. We observed that Tibetan chicken embryos had higher hatchability (48%) in hypoxia than their lowland controls (7.8%). Northern blot showed that globin mRNA expression in Tibetan chicken embryos differed greatly from lowland controls under hypoxia. The expressions of four dominant globin mRNAs, named \xce\xb1(A), \xce\xb1(D), \xce\xb2(A) and \xce\xb2(H), were significantly induced under hypoxia. Tibetan chicken embryos had lower globin mRNA level in red cells than that of lowland controls at day 19 (P<0.05). Based on real-time PCR the same result was confirmed. Furthermore, we observed accumulation of globins induced by hypoxia in red cells by performing the separation of globin analysis, showing higher level of globins in red cells of Tibetan chicken embryos than that of lowland chicken embryos. Overall, our results provide new evidence that flexible regulation of globins at the level of transcription and translation may play a role in allowing the Tibetan chicken embryo to resist hypoxia. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: To study the role of neuroglobin (Ngb) in the pathologic process of contusion and laceration of brain in children.METHODS: The proteins in the brain tissue were extracted by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in 3 children undergoing brain ventricular neoplasms resection (normal brain tissue) and in 8 children with contusion and laceration of brain. The image analysis was done using the PDQuest 7.0 software. The differential protein spots were detected and analyzed with Applied Biosystems Voyager System 4307 MALDI-TOF Mass Spectrometer and bioinformatical skills. Ngb expression in the brain tissue was measured using immunohistochemisty. Ngb expression in plasma was measured using ELISA in 15 children with contusion and laceration of brain and 10 healthy children.RESULTS: Expression maps of the brain tissue were established by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in children with contusion and laceration of brain and healthy children. Six differential protein spots were found and 5 of them were identified by mass spectrum. Immunohistochemisty assay showed that Ngb expression in the brain tissue in children with contusion and laceration of brain was significantly higher than in normal controls (P<0.05). ELISA results showed that Ngb expression in the plasma increased significantly 6, 12, 18, 24 and 48 hours after trauma in children with contusion and laceration of brain compared with healthy children (P<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: Ngb may play an important role in the pathologic process of contusion and laceration of brain in children. labels: #Globins'
b'We have studied the binding of carbon monoxide (CO) in mutants of Cyt c having its methionine at position 80 replaced by alanine, aspartate, and arginine, so that the sixth coordination is available for ligand binding. We have employed Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) photolysis difference spectroscopy to examine interactions of the heme-bound and photolyzed CO (and also nitric oxide, NO) in the small heme pocket created by the mutations. By using FTIR temperature derivative spectroscopy (TDS) and nanosecond flash photolysis, the enthalpy barrier distributions for CO rebinding were determined. In flash photolysis experiments, the majority of ligands rebind to the heme iron on picosecond time scales so that only the high-barrier tail of the distributions is visible on the nanosecond scale. By continuous wave excitation prior to TDS characterization of the barriers, however, each Cyt c molecule is photoexcited multiple times and complete photodissociation can be achieved, which likely arises from a rotation of the CO within the heme pocket so that the oxygen faces the heme iron. Apparently, reorientation prior to rebinding constitutes an additional and significant contribution to the rebinding barrier. Our experiments reveal that the compact, rigid structure of Cyt c offers no alternative binding sites for photodissociated ligands in the protein matrix. A comparison of ligand binding in these Cyt c mutants and hemoglobins underscores the importance of internal ligand docking sites and ligand migration routes for conveying a ligand binding function to heme proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'3D nanostructured transparent indium tin oxide (ITO) electrodes prepared by glancing angle deposition (GLAD) were used for the spectroelectrochemical characterization of cytochrome c (Cyt c) and neuroglobin (Nb). These small hemoproteins, involved as electron-transfer partners in the prevention of apoptosis, are oppositely charged at physiological pH and can each be adsorbed within the ITO network under different pH conditions. The resulting modified electrodes were investigated by UV-visible absorption spectroscopy coupled with cyclic voltammetry. By using nondenaturating adsorption conditions, we demonstrate that both proteins are capable of direct electron transfer to the conductive ITO surface, sharing apparent standard potentials similar to those reported in solution. Preservation of the 3D protein structure upon adsorption was confirmed by resonance Raman (rR) spectroscopy. Analysis of the derivative cyclic voltabsorptograms (DCVA) monitored either in the Soret or the Q bands at scan rates up to 1 V s(-1) allowed us to investigate direct interfacial electron transfer kinetics. From the DCVA shape and scan rate dependences, we conclude that the interaction of Cyt c with the ITO surface is more specific than Nb, suggesting an oriented adsorption of Cyt c and a random adsorption of Nb on the ITO surface. At the same time, Cyt c appears more sensitive to the experimental adsorption conditions, and complete denaturation of Cyt c may occur as evidenced from cross-correlation of rR spectroscopy and spectroelectrochemistry. labels: #Globins'
b'Although the specific functions of sleep have not been completely elucidated, the literature has suggested that sleep is essential for proper homeostasis. Sleep loss is associated with changes in behavioral, neurochemical, cellular, and metabolic function as well as impaired immune response. Using high-resolution microarrays we evaluated the gene expression profiles of healthy male volunteers who underwent 60 h of prolonged wakefulness (PW) followed by 12 h of sleep recovery (SR). Peripheral whole blood was collected at 8 am in the morning before the initiation of PW (Baseline), after the second night of PW, and one night after SR. We identified over 500 genes that were differentially expressed. Notably, these genes were related to DNA damage and repair and stress response, as well as diverse immune system responses, such as natural killer pathways including killer cell lectin-like receptors family, as well as granzymes and T-cell receptors, which play important roles in host defense. These results support the idea that sleep loss can lead to alterations in molecular processes that result in perturbation of cellular immunity, induction of inflammatory responses, and homeostatic imbalance. Moreover, expression of multiple genes was downregulated following PW and upregulated after SR compared with PW, suggesting an attempt of the body to re-establish internal homeostasis. In silico validation of alterations in the expression of CETN3, DNAJC, and CEACAM genes confirmed previous findings related to the molecular effects of sleep deprivation. Thus, the present findings confirm that the effects of sleep loss are not restricted to the brain and can occur intensely in peripheral tissues. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a recently discovered cytoplasmic heme-binding globin. Although multiple hemeproteins have been reported to function as nitrite reductases in mammalian cells, it is unknown whether Cygb can also reduce nitrite to nitric oxide (NO). The mechanism, magnitude, and quantitative importance of Cygb-mediated nitrite reduction in tissues have not been reported. To investigate this pathway and its quantitative importance, EPR spectroscopy, spectrophotometric measurements, and chemiluminescence NO analyzer studies were performed. Under anaerobic conditions, mixing nitrite with ferrous-Cygb triggered NO formation that was trapped and detected using EPR spin trapping. Spectrophotometric studies revealed that nitrite binding to ferrous-Cygb is followed by formation of ferric-Cygb and NO. The kinetics and magnitude of Cygb-mediated NO formation were characterized. It was observed that Cygb-mediated NO generation increased linearly with the increase of nitrite concentration under anaerobic conditions. This Cygb-mediated NO production greatly increased with acidosis and near-anoxia as occur in ischemic conditions. With the addition of nitrite, soluble guanylyl cyclase activation was significantly higher in normal smooth muscle cells compared with Cygb knocked down cells with Cygb accounting for \xe2\x88\xbc40% of the activation in control cells and \xe2\x88\xbc60% in cells subjected to hypoxia for 48 h. Overall, these studies show that Cygb-mediated nitrite reduction can play an important role in NO generation and soluble guanylyl cyclase activation under hypoxic conditions, with this process regulated by pH, oxygen tension, nitrite concentration, and the redox state of the cells. labels: #Globins'
b'Arsenic (As) in drinking water is a toxicant causing several health problems including nervous system disturbance. Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a tissue globin in nervous system playing protective role against oxidative stress in many injuries. This study was to investigate how long arsenite exposure (sodium arsenite 7.5 mg/kg/day) could induce oxidative stress in blood and brain of rats and to determine whether Ngb expression in rat brain changed due to oxidative stress. Results showed that superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) level in serum and brain homogenates and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in red blood cells (RBCs) did not change in the rats exposed to arsenite for 8 weeks. In the rats exposed to arsenite for 16 weeks, SOD activity decreased (serum: P<0.05; brain homogenates: P<0.01) and MDA level increased (P<0.01) in serum and brain homogenates; ROS production increased (P<0.01) in RBC. When oxidative stress occurred, Ngb mRNA expression did not change in whole brain, cerebral cortex, midbrain, and hippocampus; however, Ngb mRNA expression increased significantly (P<0.05) in cerebellum compared to the control group. This study suggests that arsenite exposure for 16 weeks can lead to oxidative stress of blood and brain of rats. Ngb may play a protective role in cerebellum when oxidative stress occurs due to arsenite exposure. labels: #Globins'
b'Electron paramagnetic resonance experiments reveal a significant difference between the principal g values (and hence ligand-field parameters) of the ferric cyanide-ligated form of different variants of the protoglobin of Methanosarcina acetivorans (MaPgb) and of horse heart myoglobin (hhMb). The largest principal g value of the ferric cyanide-ligated MaPgb variants is found to be significantly lower than for any of the other globins reported so far. This is at least partially caused by the strong heme distortions as proven by the determination of the hyperfine interaction of the heme nitrogens and mesoprotons. Furthermore, the experiments confirm recent theoretical predictions [Forti, F.; Boechi, L., Bikiel, D., Mart\xc3\xad, M.A.; Nardini, M.; Bolognesi, M.; Viappiani, C.; Estrin, D.; Luque, F. J. J. Phys. Chem. B 2011, 115, 13771-13780] that Phe(G8)145 plays a crucial role in the ligand modulation in MaPgb. Finally, the influence of the N-terminal 20 amino-acid chain on the heme pocket in these protoglobins is also proven. labels: #Globins'
b'Although many physiological adaptations of diving mammals have been reported, little is known about how their brains sustain the high demands for metabolic energy and thus O(2) when submerged. A recent study revealed in the deep-diving hooded seal (Cystophora cristata) a unique shift of the oxidative energy metabolism and neuroglobin, a respiratory protein that is involved in neuronal hypoxia tolerance, from neurons to astrocytes. Here we have investigated neuroglobin in another pinniped species, the harp seal (Pagophilus groenlandicus), and in two cetaceans, the harbor porpoise (Phocoena phocoena) and the minke whale (Balaenoptera acutorostrata). Neuroglobin sequences, expression levels and patterns were compared with those of terrestrial relatives, the ferret (Mustela putorius furo) and the cattle (Bos taurus), respectively. Neuroglobin sequences of whales and seals only differ in two or three amino acids from those of cattle and ferret, and are unlikely to confer functional differences, e.g. in O(2) affinity. Neuroglobin is expressed in the astrocytes also of P. groenlandicus, suggesting that the shift of neuroglobin and oxidative metabolism is a common adaptation in the brains of deep-diving phocid seals. In the cetacean brain neuroglobin resides in neurons, like in terrestrial mammals. However, neuroglobin mRNA expression levels were 4-15 times higher in the brains of harbor porpoises and minke whales than in terrestrial mammals or in seals. Thus neuroglobin appears to play a specific role in diving mammals, but seals and whales have evolved divergent strategies to cope with cerebral hypoxia. The specific function of neuroglobin that conveys hypoxia tolerance may either relate to oxygen supply or protection from reactive oxygen species. The different strategies in seals and whales resulted from a divergent evolution and an independent adaptation to diving. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: The activation of hepatic stellate cells plays a central role in the development of liver fibrosis during chronic liver trauma. The aim of the present study was to identify a compound that inhibits the activation process of stellate cells.METHODS: Rat primary cultured stellate cells and a human stellate cell line (LX-2) were used. The effects of arundic acid on the expression of \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin, collagen 1\xce\xb11, and cytoglobin were evaluated.RESULTS: Arundic acid (300 \xce\xbcM) inhibited the activation of primary rat stellate cells, as determined by morphological transformation and \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin expression, after both prophylactic and therapeutic treatment. The level of \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin mRNA showed a dose-dependent decrease in response to arundic acid, and 50 \xce\xbcM arundic acid exhibited the maximum inhibition of collagen 1\xce\xb11 mRNA expression. In contrast, arundic acid triggered an unexpected increase in mRNA and protein levels of cytoglobin, the fourth globin in mammals expressed exclusively in hepatic stellate cells. The effect of arundic acid on the level of \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin mRNA was abrogated in HSCs treated with cytoglobin siRNA. Arundic acid decreased the expression of collagen 1\xce\xb11 mRNA in LX-2 cells.CONCLUSION: Arundic acid affects the activation process of hepatic stellate cells via the unexpected induction of cytoglobin. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb), a neuronal specific oxygen binding heme-globin, reported to be expressed at high levels in most layers of the murine retina. Ngb's function is presently unknown, but based on its high expression level and oxygen binding capabilities Ngb was proposed to function as an oxygen reservoir facilitating oxygen metabolism in highly active neurons or to function as a neuroprotectant. In the present study, we re-examined the expression pattern of Ngb in the retina using a highly validated antibody. Furthermore, intactness of retino-hypothalamic projections and the retinal expression level of Melanopsin and Tyrosine Hydroxylase were investigated in Ngb-null mice. Ngb-immunoreactivity was found in a few neurons of the ganglion cell and inner nuclear layers co-expressing Melanopsin and Tyrosine Hydroxylase, respectively. Ngb deficiency neither affected the level of Melanopsin and Tyrosine Hydroxylase proteins nor the intactness of PACAP-positive retinohypothalamic projections in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Based on the present results, it seems unlikely that Ngb could have a major role in retinal oxygen homeostasis and neuronal survival under normal conditions. The present study suggests that a number of previously published reports have relied on antibodies with dubious specificity. labels: #Globins"
b'The microaerophilic pathogen Campylobacter jejuni possesses inducible systems for resisting NO. Two globins--Cgb (a single-domain globin) and Ctb (a truncated globin)--are up-regulated in response to NO via the positively acting transcription factor NssR. Our aims were to determine whether these oxygen-binding globins also function in severely oxygen-limited environments, as in the host. At growth-limiting oxygen transfer rates, bacteria were more S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO) sensitive, irrespective of the presence of Cgb, Ctb, or NssR. Pregrowth of cells with GSNO enhanced GSNO resistance, even in nssR and cgb mutants, but transcriptomic profiling of oxygen-limited, NO-exposed cells failed to reveal the NssR regulon. Nevertheless, globin expression in an Escherichia coli mutant lacking the NO-detoxifying flavohemoglobin Hmp showed that Cgb and Ctb consume NO aerobically or anoxically and offer some protection to respiratory inhibition by NO. The constitutively expressed nitrite reductase NrfA does not provide resistance under oxygen-limited conditions. We, therefore, hypothesize that, although Cgb and NrfA can detoxify NO, even anoxically, they are neither up-regulated nor functional under physiologically relevant oxygen-limited conditions and, second, responses to NO do not stem from trancriptional regulation. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin is a hypoxia-inducible O(2)-binding protein with neuroprotective effects in cell and animal models of stroke and Alzheimer's disease. The mechanism underlying neuroglobin's cytoprotective action is unknown, although several possibilities have been proposed, including anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic effects. We used affinity purification-mass spectrometry methods to identify neuroglobin-interacting proteins in normoxic and hypoxic murine neuronal (HN33) cell lysates, and to compare these interactions with those of a structurally and functionally related protein, myoglobin. We report that the protein interactomes of neuroglobin and myoglobin overlap substantially and are modified by hypoxia. In addition, neuroglobin-interacting proteins include partners consistent with both anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic functions, as well as with a relationship to several neurodegenerative diseases. labels: #Globins"
b'Mammalian neuroglobin (Ngb) protects neuronal cells under conditions of oxidative stress. The mechanism underlying this function is only partly understood. Here, we report that human Ngb exists in lipid rafts only during oxidative stress and that lipid rafts are crucial for neuroprotection by Ngb. The ferrous oxygen-bound form of Ngb, which exists under normoxia, is converted to the ferric bis-His conformation during oxidative stress, inducing large tertiary structural changes. We clarified that ferric bis-His Ngb, but not ferrous ligand-bound Ngb, specifically binds to flotillin-1, a lipid raft microdomain-associated protein, as well as to \xce\xb1-subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins (G\xce\xb1(i/o)). Moreover, we found that human ferric bis-His Ngb acts as a guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor for G\xce\xb1(i/o) that has been modified by oxidative stress. In addition, our data shows that Ngb inhibits the decrease in cAMP concentration that occurs under oxidative stress, leading to protection against cell death. Furthermore, by using a mutated Ngb protein that cannot form the bis-His conformation, we demonstrate that the oxidative stress-induced structural changes of human Ngb are essential for its neuroprotective activity. labels: #Globins'
b'INTRODUCTION: Thalassemia and iron deficiency may both result in hypochromic microcytic anemia. Hematological algorithms that differentiate the two are mainly established in adult selected diagnostic groups. We aimed at creating an algorithm applicable in the presence of children, hemoglobin variants, and iron deficiency.METHODS: Our study material constituted blood samples referred during 1\xc2\xa0year for routine diagnostics of hemoglobinopathy. We included 443 samples, of which 37% were from children 3\xc2\xa0months or older. We found \xce\xb2-thalassemia trait (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0100), \xce\xb1-thalassemia (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa075), combined \xce\xb1-/\xce\xb2-thalassemia (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa014), hemoglobin variants (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa042), and no-hemoglobinopathy (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0207), of whom 107 had a ferritin at or below 20\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/L. We included reticulocyte hemoglobin equivalent, ferritin, and erythrocyte count in our algorithm.RESULTS: Our algorithm differentiated \xce\xb2-thalassemia trait from no-hemoglobinopathy with a sensitivity of 99% at 83% specificity. It performed better than other published algorithms when applied to all patient samples, while equally or moderately better in the 63% adult samples. Our algorithm also detected the clinically significant \xce\xb1-thalassemias, and most of the combined \xce\xb1-/\xce\xb2-thalassemias and thalassemic hemoglobin variants.CONCLUSION: Our algorithm efficiently differentiated thalassemia and thalassemic hemoglobin variants from iron deficiency in children and adults. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin, a new member of the mammalian heme-globin family has been shown to bind oxygen and to have cell protective properties in vitro. Cytoglobin is specifically expressed in a subpopulation of brain neurons. Based on hypoxia-induced up regulation and proposed scavenging of reactive oxygen species Cytoglobin was suggested as a candidate for pharmaceutical stroke treatment. Since production of reactive oxygen species is a hallmark of ischemia, we hypothesized that Cytoglobin expression would be increased and that Cytoglobin expressing neurons would be spared after ischemic injury. Twenty male C57BL/6J mice were used in the experimental design. Ten were sham operated and ten were given permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAo). All animals were euthanized after 24h. From each group, three animals were used for histology and seven for QRT-PCR and western blotting. Immunohistochemical examination of the ischemic penumbra revealed neither changes in Cytoglobin immunoreactivity nor any changes in expression in the necrotic infarct area. The lack of expression change was confirmed by western blotting and QRT-PCR showing no significant difference between sham and pMCAo operated mice. This suggests that Cytoglobin is likely not important for global neuronal protection following ischemia and the role of Cytoglobin in relation to endogenous neuroprotection remains unresolved. labels: #Globins'
b"BACKGROUND: Transcriptomic studies in clinical research are essential tools for deciphering the functional elements of the genome and unraveling underlying disease mechanisms. Various technologies have been developed to deduce and quantify the transcriptome including hybridization and sequencing-based approaches. Recently, high density exon microarrays have been successfully employed for detecting differentially expressed genes and alternative splicing events for biomarker discovery and disease diagnostics. The field of transcriptomics is currently being revolutionized by high throughput DNA sequencing methodologies to map, characterize, and quantify the transcriptome.METHODS: In an effort to understand the merits and limitations of each of these tools, we undertook a study of the transcriptome in sickle cell disease, a monogenic disease comparing the Affymetrix Human Exon 1.0 ST microarray (Exon array) and Illumina's deep sequencing technology (RNA-seq) on whole blood clinical specimens.RESULTS: Analysis indicated a strong concordance (R = 0.64) between Exon array and RNA-seq data at both gene level and exon level transcript expression. The magnitude of differential expression was found to be generally higher in RNA-seq than in the Exon microarrays. We also demonstrate for the first time the ability of RNA-seq technology to discover novel transcript variants and differential expression in previously unannotated genomic regions in sickle cell disease. In addition to detecting expression level changes, RNA-seq technology was also able to identify sequence variation in the expressed transcripts.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that microarrays remain useful and accurate for transcriptomic analysis of clinical samples with low input requirements, while RNA-seq technology complements and extends microarray measurements for novel discoveries. labels: #Globins"
b'Increasing evidence points to endoglin (Eng), an accessory receptor for the transforming growth factor-\xce\xb2 superfamily commonly associated with the endothelial lineage, as an important regulator of the hematopoietic lineage. We have shown that lack of Eng results in reduced numbers of primitive erythroid colonies as well as downregulation of key hematopoietic genes. To determine the effect of Eng overexpression in hematopoietic development, we generated a doxycycline-inducible embryonic stem cell line. Our results demonstrate that induction of Eng during embryoid body differentiation leads to a significant increase in the frequency of hematopoietic progenitors, in particular, the erythroid lineage, which correlated with upregulation of Scl, Gata1, Runx1, and embryonic globin. Interestingly, activation of the hematopoietic program happened at the expense of endothelial and cardiac cells, as differentiation into these mesoderm lineages was compromised. Eng-induced enhanced erythroid activity was accompanied by high levels of Smad1 phosphorylation. This effect was attenuated by addition of a bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling inhibitor to these cultures. Among the BMPs, BMP4 is well known for its role in hematopoietic specification from mesoderm by promoting expression of several hematopoietic genes, including Scl. Because Scl is considered the master regulator of the hematopoietic program, we investigated whether Scl would be capable of rescuing the defective hematopoietic phenotype observed in Eng(-/-) embryonic stem cells. Scl expression in Eng-deficient embryonic stem cells resulted in increased erythroid colony-forming activity and upregulation of Gata1 and Gata2, positioning Eng upstream of Scl. Taken together, these findings support the premise that Eng modulates the hematopoietic transcriptional network, most likely through regulation of BMP4 signaling. labels: #Globins'
b'Proteins of the (hemo-)globin superfamily have been identified in many different animals but also occur in plants, fungi, and bacteria. Globins are renowned for their ability to store and to transport oxygen, but additional globin functions such as sensing, signaling, and detoxification have been proposed. Recently, we found that the zebrafish globin X protein is myristoylated and palmitoylated at its N-terminus. The addition of fatty acids results in an association with the cellular membranes, suggesting a previously unrecognized globin function. In this study, we show that N-terminal acylation likely occurs in globin proteins from a broad range of phyla. An N-terminal myristoylation site was identified in 90 nonredundant globins from Chlorophyta, Heterokontophyta, Cnidaria, Mollusca, Arthropoda, Nematoda, Echinodermata, Hemichordata, and Chordata (including Cephalochordata), of which 66 proteins carry an additional palmitoylation site. Bayesian phylogenetic analyses identified five major globin families, which may mirror the ancient globin diversity of the Metazoa. Globin X-like proteins form two related clades, which diverged before the radiation of the Eumetazoa. Vertebrate hemoglobin (Hb), myoglobin, cytoglobin, globin E, and globin Y form a strongly supported common clade, which is the sister group of a clade consisting of invertebrate Hbs and relatives. The N-terminally acylated globins do not form a single monophyletic group but are distributed to four distinct clades. This pattern may be either explained by multiple introduction of an N-terminal acylation site into distinct globin lineages or by the origin of animal respiratory globins from a membrane-bound ancestor. Similarly, respiratory globins were not monophyletic. This suggests that respiratory globins might have emerged independently several times and that the early metazoan globins might have been associated with a membrane and carried out a function that was related to lipid protection or signaling. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence has demonstrated that over-expression of Neuroglobin (Ngb) is neuroprotective against hypoxic/ischemic brain injuries. In this study we tested the neuroprotective effects of Ngb over-expression against traumatic brain injury (TBI) in mice.RESULTS: Both Ngb over-expression transgenic (Ngb-Tg) and wild-type (WT) control mice were subjected to TBI induced by a controlled cortical impact (CCI) device. TBI significantly increased Ngb expression in the brains of both WT and Ngb-Tg mice, but Ngb-Tg mice had significantly higher Ngb protein levels at the pre-injury baseline and post-TBI. Production of oxidative tissue damage biomarker 3NT in the brain was significantly reduced in Ngb-Tg mice compared to WT controls at 6 hours after TBI. The traumatic brain lesion volume was significantly reduced in Ngb Tg mice compared to WT mice at 3 weeks after TBI; however, there were no significant differences in the recovery of sensorimotor and spatial memory functional deficits between Ngb-Tg and WT control mice for up to 3 weeks after TBI.CONCLUSION: Ngb over-expression reduced traumatic lesion volume, which might partially be achieved by decreasing oxidative stress. labels: #Globins'
b'This study was performed to investigate the hypothesis that the erythroid micro-environment plays a role in regulation of globin gene expression during adult erythroid differentiation. Adult baboon bone marrow and human cord blood CD34+ progenitors were grown in methylcellulose, liquid media, and in co-culture with stromal cell lines derived from different developmental stages in identical media supporting erythroid differentiation to examine the effect of the micro-environment on globin gene expression. Adult progenitors express high levels of \xce\xb3-globin in liquid and methylcellulose media but low, physiological levels in stromal cell co-cultures. In contrast, \xce\xb3-globin expression remained high in cord blood progenitors in stromal cell line co-cultures. Differences in \xce\xb3-globin gene expression between adult progenitors in stromal cell line co-cultures and liquid media required cell-cell contact and were associated with differences in rate of differentiation and \xce\xb3-globin promoter DNA methylation. We conclude that \xce\xb3-globin expression in adult-derived erythroid cells can be influenced by the micro-environment, suggesting new potential targets for HbF induction. labels: #Globins'
b'PURPOSE: The impact of different severities of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) on cognition has not well been documented. Neuroglobin, a recently discovered vertebrate protein, shows a neuroprotective function to modulate hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. This study investigated the cognitive function of patients with varying OSA severities and intended to explore the relationship between levels of neuroglobin in serum and cognitive deficits of OSA.METHODS: Sixty Chinese adults aged 18-59 years old were enrolled and categorized into four groups based on apnea-hypopnea index (AHI): primary snoring (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x897), mild (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8913), moderate (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8920), and severe (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8920) OSA groups. Computer-based neurocognitive tests (including calculation, memory, and attention) and Epworth sleepiness scale were administered before polysomnographic monitoring, and blood sample was taken the next morning. Concentrations of serum neuroglobin were measured using ELISA.RESULTS: No significant difference was observed in cognitive function regardless of OSA severities, but patients with moderate and severe OSA presented significantly more sleepiness than patients with primary snoring and mild OSA. Memory significantly correlated with time spent with oxygen saturation below 90 % during nighttime (T\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x8990 %), as well as oxygen desaturation index, AHI, or NREM sleep. Calculation correlated significantly with sleepiness and respiratory arousal index. Levels of neuroglobin in serum of patients with varying OSA severities were significant elevated than that of patients with primary snoring. No relationship was found between the neurobehavioral ability index of neurocognitive tests and serum neuroglobin concentrations after controlling for gender, age, and BMI, whereas the unique association between levels of neuroglobin in serum and the scores of auditory digit span test was noted.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that different neurocognitive domains might specifically correlate to either sleepiness or hypoxemia. Changes of concentrations of neuroglobin in serum may possibly be used as an indicator to monitor the brain damage of OSA. Further investigations are needed to explore the relationship between regulation of neuroglobin in serum and severity of brain damage in OSA. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate rat neuroglobin (rNGB) expression level after traumatic brain injury (TBI) and further study its neuroprotective effects in TBI when it was overexpressed in adenoviral vector.METHODS: The Wistar rats (280-320  g) were divided into control, 12 and 36 hours after TBI groups (n = 3) and their TBI model was established. Subsequently, NGB expression level was examined by Western blot and immunohistochemical. Beyond that, adenoviral vectors pAdEasy-rNGB-GFP and pAdEasy-GFP  were constructed and transfected into the rat brain respectively (pAdEasy-GFP was control), and the neuroprotective effects were examined by immunohistochemical.RESULTS: Immunohistochemical and Western blot results demonstrated that NGB expression level was increased at 12  and 36 hours after TBI injury compare with control. Meanwhile, the pAdEasy-rNGB-GFP transfected rats suffered less necrosis and apoptosis compare to control.CONCLUSIONS: NGB was upregulated in TBI and overexpressed rNGB had a significant neuroprotection in TBI. However,  the mechanism remained unknown. This study suggested that rNGB overexpression may be a new strategy for treating of TBI. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a new member of the globin family and a novel endogenous neuroprotective molecule, but its neuroprotective mechanisms remain largely undefined. Previous studies suggest Ngb is both physically and functionally related to mitochondria, however without direct evidence. Our recent discovery has shown that Ngb can physically interact with a number of mitochondrial proteins. In this study we aimed to define the physical interaction between Ngb and mitochondria by determining whether there is a mitochondrial distribution of Ngb under both physiological-resting and pathological oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) conditions. Western blot for the first time revealed a small portion of Ngb was physically localized in mitochondria, and the relative mitochondrial Ngb level was significantly increased after OGD in primary-cultured mouse cortical neurons, indicating a translocation of Ngb into mitochondria. Complementary approaches including confocal imaging and immuno-electron microscopy confirmed Ngb distribution in mitochondria under both basal-resting condition and OGD. Inhibitors of mitochondria permeability transition pore (mPTP) and Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel (VDAC) blocked OGD-induced increase of mitochondrial Ngb level, demonstrating a possible role of mPTP in Ngb's mitochondrial translocation. We further found that Ngb overexpression-conferred neuroprotection was correlated with increased mitochondrial Ngb level, suggesting the mitochondria distribution of Ngb is clearly associated with and may contribute to Ngb's neuroprotection. labels: #Globins"
b'We have generated the Lys67Glu mutant form of neuroglobin. Experimental spectral studies are consistent with a six coordinate heme in which the distal histidine bond is stretched compared to the wild type protein. Carbon monoxide binding to the ferrous form of the mutant follows a hyperbolic concentration dependence limiting at the histidine dissociation rate of 0.7 s(-1). Further analysis indicates a significantly lowered histidine binding constant. Oxygen binding kinetic studies confirm the higher heme ligand dissociation level and indicate a p50 value for oxygen binding<1 mmHg. The ferrous form of the protein yields an oxygenated intermediate on reaction with oxygen. The rate of oxidation, by oxygen, follows a complex concentration dependence, consistent with the presence of two distinct oxidation mechanisms. A quantitative model for the two oxidation processes has been developed, which is consistent with a lowered distal histidine binding constant in the mutant form of the protein. These data suggest that the protein structure surrounding the heme site in neuroglobin limits access to external ligands and provides an energy barrier to the structural changes following ligand binding in this protein. However, the mutation does not appear to affect reactivity with cytochrome c and the anti-apoptotic activity of the mutant in human cells of neuronal origin is increased as compared to the wild type protein. labels: #Globins'
b'Carbonic anhydrase 1 (Car1), an early specific marker of the erythroid differentiation, has been used to distinguish fetal and adult erythroid cells since its production closely follows the \xce\xb3- to \xce\xb2-globin transition, but the molecular mechanism underlying transcriptional regulation of Car1 is unclear. Here, we show that Car1 mRNA decreases significantly when erythroid differentiation is induced in MEL cells. The Ldb1 protein complex including GATA1/SCL/LMO2 binds to the Car1 promoter in uninduced cells and reduced enrichment of the complex during differentiation correlates with loss of Car1 expression. Knockdown of Ldb1 results in a reduction of Ser2 phosphorylated RNA Pol II and Cdk9 at the Car1 promoter region, suggesting that Ldb1 is required for recruitment of Pol II as well as the transcription regulator P-TEFb to enhance elongation of Car1 transcripts. Taken together, these data show that Ldb1 forms a regulatory complex to maintain Car1 expression in erythroid cells. labels: #Globins'
b'Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and neuroglobin (Ngb) participate in neuronal responses to hypoxia and ischemia, but the relationship between their effects, if any, is unknown. To address this issue, we measured Ngb levels in VEGF-treated mouse cerebrocortical cultures and VEGF levels in cerebrocortical cultures from Ngb-overexpressing transgenic mice. VEGF stimulated Ngb expression in a VEGFR2/Flk1 receptor-dependent manner, whereas Ngb overexpression suppressed expression of VEGF. These findings provide further insight into hypoxia-stimulated neuronal signaling pathways. labels: #Globins'
b'The endogenous vasodilator nitric oxide (NO) is metabolized in tissues in an O(2)-dependent manner. This regulates NO levels in the vascular wall; however, the underlying molecular basis of this O(2)-dependent NO consumption remains unclear. While cytoglobin (Cygb) was discovered a decade ago, its physiological function remains uncertain. Cygb is expressed in the vascular wall and can consume NO in an O(2)-dependent manner. Therefore, we characterize the process of the O(2)-dependent consumption of NO by Cygb in the presence of the cellular reductants and reducing systems ascorbate (Asc) and cytochrome P(450) reductase (CPR), measure rate constants of Cygb reduction by Asc and CPR, and propose a reaction mechanism and derive a related kinetic model for this O(2)-dependent NO consumption involving Cygb(Fe(3+)) as the main intermediate reduced back to ferrous Cygb by cellular reductants. This kinetic model expresses the relationship between the rate of O(2)-dependent consumption of NO by Cygb and rate constants of the molecular reactions involved. The predicted rate of O(2)-dependent consumption of NO by Cygb is consistent with experimental results supporting the validity of the kinetic model. Simulations based on this kinetic model suggest that the high efficiency of Cygb in regulating the NO consumption rate is due to the rapid reduction of Cygb by cellular reductants, which greatly increases the rate of consumption of NO at higher O(2) concentrations, and binding of NO to Cygb, which reduces the rate of consumption of NO at lower O(2) concentrations. Thus, the coexistence of Cygb with efficient reductants in tissues allows Cygb to function as an O(2)-dependent regulator of NO decay. labels: #Globins'
b'Among endogenous adaptive systems to hypoxia, neuroglobin, a recently discovered heme protein, was suggested as a novel oxygen-dependent neuroprotectant. We aimed to characterize i) maturational age-related regulation of neuroglobin in the developing mouse brain under normoxic and hypoxic conditions, and ii) the role of hypoxia-inducible transcription factors (HIFs) as possible mediators of O(2)-dependent regulation of neuroglobin in vitro and in vivo. During early stages of postnatal brain maturation (P0-P14) neuroglobin mRNA levels significantly increased in developing mouse forebrains. By immunohistochemical analysis we confirmed expression of neuroglobin protein in the cytoplasm of developing neurons but not glial cells under normoxic conditions. Exposure of the immature brains (P0, P7) to acute (8% O(2), 6h) and chronic systemic hypoxia (10% O(2), 7 days) led to differential activation of neuroglobin varying with maturational stage (P0, P7) and severity of hypoxia. This observation may indicate that neuroglobin is involved in adaptive responses of immature neurons to acute hypoxia during an early stage of mouse brain maturation (P0). In response to activation of the HIF system by prolyl-4-hydroxylase inhibitor (FG-4497), neuroglobin mRNA expression was significantly up-regulated in primary mouse cortical neurons (DIV6) exposed to normoxia and hypoxia (1% O(2)) compared to non-treated controls. In conclusion, present results strongly indicate that cerebral regulation of neuroglobin is related to maturational stage and that hypoxia-induced neuroglobin up-regulation is modified by the HIF system. labels: #Globins'
b'For definitive diagnosis of thalassemia carriers and patients, as well as for prenatal diagnosis, genotype analysis is of fundamental importance. We report a dry-reagent, lateral flow dipstick test that enables visual genotyping (detection by naked eye) of 15 mutations common in Mediterranean populations in the beta-globin gene (HBB). The method comprises 3 simple steps: (i) PCR amplification of a single 1896 bp segment of the beta globin gene flanking all 15 mutations; (ii) a multiplex (10-plex and/or 30-plex) primer extension reaction of the unpurified amplification product using allele-specific primers. Biotin is incorporated in the extended product; (iii) a dry-reagent multi-allele (10-plex) dipstick assay for visual detection of the primer extension reaction products within minutes. The total time required for PCR, primer extension reaction and the dipstick assay is ~2 h. The method was evaluated by genotyping 45 DNA samples of known genotypes and 54 blind samples. The results were fully concordant with reference methods. The method is simple, rapid, and cost-effective. Detection by the dipstick assay does not require specialized instrumentation or highly qualified personnel. The proposed method could be a particularly useful tool in laboratories with limited resources and a basis for point-of-care diagnostics especially in combination with PCR amplification from whole blood. labels: #Globins'
b"Globin gene switching is a complex, highly regulated process allowing expression of distinct globin genes at specific developmental stages. Here, for the first time, we have characterized all of the zebrafish globins based on the completed genomic sequence. Two distinct chromosomal loci, termed major (chromosome 3) and minor (chromosome 12), harbor the globin genes containing \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 pairs in a 5'-3' to 3'-5' orientation. Both these loci share synteny with the mammalian \xce\xb1-globin locus. Zebrafish globin expression was assayed during development and demonstrated two globin switches, similar to human development. A conserved regulatory element, the locus control region (LCR), was revealed by analyzing DNase I hypersensitive sites, H3K4 trimethylation marks and GATA1 binding sites. Surprisingly, the position of these sites with relation to the globin genes is evolutionarily conserved, despite a lack of overall sequence conservation. Motifs within the zebrafish LCR include CACCC, GATA, and NFE2 sites, suggesting functional interactions with known transcription factors but not the same LCR architecture. Functional homology to the mammalian \xce\xb1-LCR MCS-R2 region was confirmed by robust and specific reporter expression in erythrocytes of transgenic zebrafish. Our studies provide a comprehensive characterization of the zebrafish globin loci and clarify the regulation of globin switching. labels: #Globins"
b'In this study, the role of the globin moiety in the structure of this pigment has been evaluated, using myoglobin and hemin as model systems. After the synthesis of the cured pigment from the compounds used in this study, the absorption spectra, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), and electrospray ionization (ESI)/MS spectroscopy were used to evaluate the chemical structure. Results indicated that the UV/visible, IR absorption, and mass spectroscopy of the cured pigment produced from myoglobin and its counterpart without the globin moiety, hemin, are different. Whereas myoglobin produced mononitrosylheme, hemin converted to dinitrosylheme, but probably the second nitric oxide group attached to the propionate side chain of the heme ring. It seems that the globin moiety protected heme ring against the second nitric oxide group. labels: #Globins'
b'The aim of the present research was to investigate the regulation of gene expression in ovine blood leukocytes during ACTH-induced cortisol release and the effect of dietary administration of botanicals to counteract the evoked response in polymorphonucleate cells (PMNCs). Thirty-six homogeneous Sarda sheep (age, 18\xc2\xb14.1 mo; BW, 38.7\xc2\xb11.3 kg) were allotted to six groups of six sheep each. One group was used as a negative control (Saline) and five groups were treated, every 12 h for 48 h, with 0.5 mL of ACTH agonist (250 \xce\xbcg/mL of tetracosactrin). Before ACTH treatment, four of the five ACTH-treated groups were separated and fed for 22 d with a basal diet supplemented with extracts from Echinacea angustifolia roots (PO+ACTH), Echinacea angustifolia flowers (EA+ACTH), Andrographis paniculata (AP+ACTH), and the bark of Larix decidua milled (LB+ACTH). Control groups (Saline and ACTH) were fed with the same basal diet without botanicals. Total RNA was extracted from blood samples collected before (T0) and after 3 h (T3) and 51 h (T51) from the first ACTH injection, and transcriptome analysis was performed using a custom oligoarray, designed from 12,194 Ovis aries UniGenes on a CombiMatrix platform. At T3, treatment with ACTH caused down-regulation of transcripts (P<0.001) involved in "response to stress" (GADD45A, GADD45B, WRNIP1, and XRCC6) and in "innate immune response" (MAPK3 and NFkBIB). At T51, treatment with ACTH caused down-regulation (P<0.001) of genes involved in "immune response" (IFNG and IL2) and up-regulation (P<0.001) of NF-\xce\xbaB1 and TP53. Each botanical produced a different (P<0.001) molecular signature for these genes at T3 and T51. The most active botanical in modulating transcriptome modifications in PMNCs after ACTH-induced cortisol release was Larix decidua Mill bark followed by Polinacea roots. These botanicals can be viewed as promising feed supplements in ruminants to cope with conditions associated with increased concentrations of plasma cortisol. labels: #Globins'
b'Heme-regulated eIF2\xce\xb1 kinase (Hri) is necessary for balanced synthesis of heme and globin. In addition, Hri deficiency exacerbates the phenotypic severity of \xce\xb2-thalassemia intermedia in mice. Activation of Hri during heme deficiency and in \xce\xb2-thalassemia increases eIF2\xce\xb1 phosphorylation and inhibits globin translation. Under endoplasmic reticulum stress and nutrient starvation, eIF2\xce\xb1 phosphorylation also induces the Atf4 signaling pathway to mitigate stress. Although the function of Hri in regulating globin translation is well established, its role in Atf4 signaling in erythroid precursors is not known. Here, we report the role of the Hri-activated Atf4 signaling pathway in reducing oxidative stress and in promoting erythroid differentiation during erythropoiesis. On acute oxidative stress, Hri(-/-) erythroblasts suffered from increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and apoptosis. During chronic iron deficiency in vivo, Hri is necessary both to reduce oxidative stress and to promote erythroid differentiation. Hri(-/-) mice developed ineffective erythropoiesis during iron deficiency with inhibition of differentiation at the basophilic erythroblast stage. This inhibition is recapitulated during ex vivo differentiation of Hri(-/-) fetal liver erythroid progenitors. Importantly, the Hri-eIF2\xce\xb1P-Atf4 pathway was activated and required for erythroid differentiation. We further demonstrate the potential of modulating Hri-eIF2\xce\xb1P-Atf4 signaling with chemical compounds as pharmaceutical therapies for \xce\xb2-thalassemia. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb), a neuron-specific oxygen-binding globin with an unknown function, has been proposed to play a key role in neuronal survival. We have previously shown Ngb to be highly expressed in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The present study addresses the effect of Ngb deficiency on circadian behavior. Ngb-deficient and wild-type (wt) mice were placed in running wheels and their activity rhythms, endogenous period and response to light stimuli were investigated. The effect of Ngb deficiency on the expression of Period1 (Per1) and the immediate early gene Fos was determined after light stimulation at night and the neurochemical phenotype of Ngb expressing neurons in wt mice was characterized. Loss of Ngb function had no effect on overall circadian entrainment, but resulted in a significantly larger phase delay of circadian rhythm upon light stimulation at early night. A light-induced increase in Per1, but not Fos, gene expression was observed in Ngb-deficient mice. Ngb expressing neurons which co-stored Gastrin Releasing Peptide (GRP) and were innervated from the eye and the geniculo-hypothalamic tract expressed FOS after light stimulation. No PER1 expression was observed in Ngb-positive neurons. The present study demonstrates for the first time that the genetic elimination of Ngb does not affect core clock function but evokes an increased behavioural response to light concomitant with increased Per1 gene expression in the SCN at early night. labels: #Globins'
b'In this paper, the preliminary study on antioxidant, enhancement of antioxidant enzymes activity, reducing the content of oxygen free radicals, delaying skin aging of the recombination cytoglobin (rCygb) purified by our lab were investigated through human keratinocyte cell line (HaCAT) H2O2 oxidative stress model, mouse skin aging model caused by continuous subcutaneous injection D-gal, rat acute liver injury model induced by CCl4 and rat skin wound healing model. The results showed that rCygb improved the activities of total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase (CAT), reduced the activities of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) as well as decreased the content of malondialdehyde (MDA). Skin biopsy showed that rCygb promoted angiogenesis, increased expression of collagen and improved the anti-inflammatory ability. All results displayed that rCygb improved the oxygen free radical scavenging ability, delayed skin aging and promoted wound healing. labels: #Globins'
b'Polychaetes are often used in toxicological studies to understand mechanisms of resistance and for biomarker detection, however, we know of only a few genetic pathways involved in resistance. We found the marine polychaete Ophelina sp.1 (Opheliidae) in sediment containing high copper levels and investigated this phenomenon by measuring metal accumulation in the worms and changes in gene and protein expression. We sequenced the transcriptome of Ophelina sp.1 from both the impacted and reference sediments using 454-sequencing and analysed their proteomes using differential in gel electrophoresis (DIGE). We used the sequenced transcriptome to guide protein identification. Transcripts coding for the copper chaperone, Atox1, were up-regulated in the worms inhabiting the high copper sediment. In addition, genes coding for respiratory proteins, detoxification proteins and cytoskeletal proteins were significantly altered in metal-exposed worms; many of these changes were also detected in the proteome. This dual approach has provided a better understanding of heavy metal resistance in polychaetes and we now have a wider range of suitable indicator genes and proteins for future biomarker development. labels: #Globins'
b'Protoglobin from Methanosarcina acetivorans (MaPgb) is a dimeric globin with peculiar structural properties such as a completely buried haem and two orthogonal tunnels connecting the distal cavity to the solvent. CO binding to and dissociation from MaPgb occur through a biphasic kinetics. We show that the heterogenous kinetics arises from binding to (and dissociation from) two tertiary conformations in ligation-dependent equilibrium. Ligation favours the species with high binding rate (and low dissociation rate). The equilibrium is shifted towards the species with low binding (and high dissociation) rates for the unliganded molecules. A quantitative model is proposed to describe the observed carbonylation kinetics. labels: #Globins'
b'Oxygen sensing in hypoxic neurons has been classically attributed to cytochrome c oxidase and prolyl-4-hydroxylases and involves stabilization of transcription factors, hypoxia-inducible factor-1\xce\xb1 (Hif-1\xce\xb1) and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) that mediate survival responses. On the contrary, release of cytochrome c into the cytosol during hypoxic stress triggers apoptosis in neuronal cells. We, here advocate that the redox state of neuroglobin (Ngb) could regulate both Hif-1\xce\xb1 and Nrf2 stabilization and cytochrome c release during hypoxia. The hippocampal regions showing higher expression of Ngb were less susceptible to global hypoxia-mediated neurodegeneration. During normoxia, Ngb maintained cytochrome c in the reduced state and prevented its release from mitochondria by using cellular antioxidants. Greater turnover of oxidized cytochrome c and increased utilization of cellular antioxidants during acute hypoxia altered cellular redox status and stabilized Hif-1\xce\xb1 and Nrf2 through Ngb-mediated mechanism. Chronic hypoxia, however, resulted in oxidation and degradation of Ngb, accumulation of ferric ions and release of cytochrome c that triggered apoptosis. Administration of N-acetyl-cysteine during hypoxic conditions improved neuronal survival by preventing Ngb oxidation and degradation. Taken together, these results establish a role for Ngb in regulating both the survival and apoptotic mechanisms associated with hypoxia. labels: #Globins'
b'Overwhelming evidence indicates that a high level of expression of the protein neuroglobin protects neurons in vitro, in animal models, and in humans, against cell death associated with hypoxic and amyloid insult. We have previously showed that neuroglobin protects neuronal cells from the mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis induced by the BH3 mimetic, by preventing cytochrome c-triggered activation of caspase 9. Here, using cell and molecular biology approaches, we generated a particular neuroglobin mutant, Lys67Glu, overexpression of which confers a significant protection from the BH3 mimetic (TW-37)-induced apoptosis in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. The cumulative inhibition of caspase 9 activation is significantly enhanced in Lys67Glu neuroglobin-expressing cells, as compared to wild-type neuroglobin expressing cells. A multiparameter flow cytometry analysis of TW-37-treated cells revealed that inhibition of caspase 9 activity by Lys67Glu neuroglobin is associated with the preservation of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (\xce\x94\xcf\x88(M) ), as well as a decreased rate of cytochrome crelease from the mitochondria. labels: #Globins'
b'AIMS: The adequacy of lung cancer diagnosis with sputum cytology depends on duration of sputum sampling. The aim of this methodological study was to determine whether the hypermethylation detection rate of RASSF1A, adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) and cytoglobin (CYGB) is influenced by the duration of sputum collection.METHODS: Prospective sputum samples were collected from 53 lung cancer patients and 47 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients as controls. Subjects collected spontaneous sputum at home during nine consecutive days in three canisters I, II and III (ie, days 1-3, days 4-6, days 7-9, respectively). Quantitative methylation-specific PCR was performed to assess gene promoter methylation status of RASSF1A, APC and CYGB.RESULTS: Analysis of each canister separately showed hypermethylation of RASSF1A, APC and/or CYGB in samples I, II and III, in 43%, 40% and 47% of cases, respectively. In control samples, these numbers were 4%, 2% and 4%, respectively. Cumulative analysis for days 1-6 and days 1-9 revealed an increase in sensitivity to 53% and 64%, and specificity of 94% and 91%, respectively.CONCLUSION: Sputum collected over multiple successive days results in a gain in sensitivity for the detection of lung cancer, at the expense of a small loss in specificity. Condensed abstract Assessment of hypermethylation sensitivity of biomarkers in sputum collected over a prolonged period for the detection of lung cancer resulted in a promising gain in sensitivity, at the expense of a small loss in specificity. labels: #Globins'
b"OBJECTIVE: To investigate mutation spectrums of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-haemoglobin genes in thalassemia patients and carriers in Yunnan province, and to establish procedures on prenatal gene diagnosis.METHODS: Totally 10 033 counseling couples and pregnant women, and 22 cases of children with moderate or severe thalassemia were recruited from 5 parts of Yunnan Province, middle, western, eastern, southern and northern areas, during July 2009 to July 2011. Medical records, including results of haemoglobin electrophoresis, blood routine examination, and gene diagnosis of subjects were collected and saved in an database in Excel software by the Key Laboratory for Birth Defects and Genetic Diseases. Using multiple gap-PCR and PCR-reversed dot blotting kits, DNA samples collected from 1077 cases of haematological positive thalassemia patients and carriers were tested to determine common mutations of the \xce\xb1- or \xce\xb2-haemoglobin genes. The codon regions of haemoglobin genes were sequenced by the Sanger sequencing in cases that the mutation tests were negative. Mutation spectrums of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-haemoglobin genes were concluded. Prenatal gene diagnosis was offered to fetuses who had risk of thalassemia major.RESULTS: (1) In 1077 cases of haemological screen positive subjects, deletions and mutations of \xce\xb1-haemoglobin gene were tested in 119 subjects among 347 cases suspected as \xce\xb1-thalassemia patients and carriers. Five kinds of deletions and mutations on \xce\xb1-haemoglobin gene were found. In 104 subjects, four kinds of common deletions and mutations on\xce\xb1-haemoglobin gene were determined: --(SEA), -\xce\xb1(3.7), \xce\xb1(CS)\xce\xb1, -\xce\xb1(4.2). Other 14 subjects were double heterozygotes with haemoglobin H disease and severe \xce\xb1-thalassemia phenotypes. A rare mutation of insertion and deletion in \xce\xb12 haemoglobin gene intron, \xce\xb1(301-24_301-23 indel), was found in one carrier subject. (2) In 1077 cases of haemological screen positive subjects, deletions and mutations of \xce\xb2-haemoglobin gene were tested in 297 subjects among 730 cases suspected as \xce\xb2-thalassemia patients and carriers. Sixteen kinds of \xce\xb2-haemoglobin gene mutations were found, including 7 cases of rare abnormal haemoglobinopathy patients with \xce\xb2-haemoglobin gene mutations. In one case with \xce\xb2(+) phenotype patient, the Codon 5(-CT) mutation at \xce\xb2-haemoglobin gene was found (firstly reported in China). (3) Three fetuses with high risks of \xce\xb1-thalassemia were accepted for prenatal diagnosis. One case of Hb Bart's hydrops syndrome fetus with the genotype --(SEA)/--(SEA), and one case of mild \xce\xb1-thalassemia fetus with the genotype \xce\xb1(CS)\xce\xb1/\xce\xb1\xce\xb1 were found. Another one fetus was found with normal \xce\xb1-haemoglobin. In 6 fetuses accepted for prenatal diagnosis due to high risks of \xce\xb2-thalassemia, one case of \xce\xb2-thalassemia major with the genotype CD(17)(A\xe2\x86\x92T)/-28(A\xe2\x86\x92G) was found, 3 fetuses were heterozygote carriers, and 2 fetuses had normal genotypes without mutations found in their parents. Medical terminations for 2 fetuses with severe thalassemia were made according to the choice of pregnant women. Other 7 pregnancies continued to term. Anemia or growth retardation was not found in the 7 infants when following up after given-birth 6 to 12 months.CONCLUSIONS: The mutation spectrums of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-haemoglobin genes of thalassemia patients and carriers in Yunnan province are special, in which \xce\xb2-haemoglobin gene exits more polymorphism in the mutation spectrum. Carrier screening in pregnant women, and offering prenatal gene diagnosis to the high risk pregnancies should be an efficient strategy to prevent thalassemia major. labels: #Globins"
b"X-ray atomic structure of recombinant Hell's gate globin I (HGbI) from Methylacidophilum infernorum was calculated from the X-ray diffraction data of two different types of crystals: obtained by classical hanging drop and by LB nanotemplate method under the same crystallization conditions. After the accurate comparison of crystallographic parameters and electron density maps of two structures they appears to be quite similar, while the quality of the crystals grown by LB nanotemplate method was higher then of those grown by classical method. Indeed, the resolution of the LB crystal structure was 1.65 \xc3\x85, while classical crystals showed only 3.2 \xc3\x85 resolution. Moreover, the reproducibility of this result in the case of LB crystals was much better-nine crystals from 10 gave the same structural results, while only two of 10 classical crystals were appropriate for the X-ray structure resolution. labels: #Globins"
b'BACKGROUND: All globins belong to one of three families: the F (flavohemoglobin) and S (sensor) families that exhibit the canonical 3/3 \xce\xb1-helical fold, and the T (truncated 3/3 fold) globins characterized by a shortened 2/2 \xce\xb1-helical fold. All eukaryote 3/3 hemoglobins are related to the bacterial single domain F globins. It is known that Fungi contain flavohemoglobins and single domain S globins. Our aims are to provide a census of fungal globins and to examine their relationships to bacterial globins.RESULTS: Examination of 165 genomes revealed that globins are present in>90% of Ascomycota and ~60% of Basidiomycota genomes. The S globins occur in Blastocladiomycota and Chytridiomycota in addition to the phyla that have FHbs. Unexpectedly, group 1 T globins were found in one Blastocladiomycota and one Chytridiomycota genome. Phylogenetic analyses were carried out on the fungal globins, alone and aligned with representative bacterial globins. The Saccharomycetes and Sordariomycetes with two FHbs form two widely divergent clusters separated by the remaining fungal sequences. One of the Saccharomycete groups represents a new subfamily of FHbs, comprising a previously unknown N-terminal and a FHb missing the C-terminal moiety of its reductase domain. The two Saccharomycete groups also form two clusters in the presence of bacterial FHbs; the surrounding bacterial sequences are dominated by Proteobacteria and Bacilli (Firmicutes). The remaining fungal FHbs cluster with Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria. The Sgbs cluster separately from their bacterial counterparts, except for the intercalation of two Planctomycetes and a Proteobacterium between the Fungi incertae sedis and the Blastocladiomycota and Chytridiomycota.CONCLUSION: Our results are compatible with a model of globin evolution put forward earlier, which proposed that eukaryote F, S and T globins originated via horizontal gene transfer of their bacterial counterparts to the eukaryote ancestor, resulting from the endosymbiotic events responsible for the origin of mitochondria and chloroplasts. labels: #Globins'
b'We hypothesize that the various, previously reported, reactivities of neuroglobin with redox partners and oxygen provide for the establishment of a redox cycle within cells, such as neurons and retinal rod cells. Using native cell lysates, from cultured human cells of neuronal origin, we have estimated the rate of reduction of the oxidized form of neuroglobin in vivo. Furthermore we provide evidence that the cytosol of these cells contains factors (presumably enzymes) capable of employing either glutathione or NADH as re-reductants of ferric neuroglobin. Taken in conjunction with previous rate data, for the various redox reactions of neuroglobin, this information allows us to set up a computer model to estimate the steady state cellular level of the antiapoptotic ferrous form of neuroglobin. This model indicates that the steady state level of antiapoptotic neuroglobin is very sensitive to the cellular oxygen tension and moderately sensitive to the redox status of the cell. Further analysis indicates that such a system would be capable of significant modification, on the seconds time scale, following hypoxic transition, as is likely in stroke. We hypothesize that this mechanism might provide a moderately rapid mechanism for adjusting the antiapoptotic status of a cell, whilst the reaction of neuroglobin with mitochondrial cytochrome c provides a very rapid, but limited, capacity to intervene in the apoptotic pathway. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin is an intracellular globin of unknown function that is expressed mostly in cells of a myofibroblast lineage. Possible functions of cytoglobin include buffering of intracellular oxygen and detoxification of reactive oxygen species. Previous work in our laboratory has demonstrated that cytoglobin affords protection from oxidant-induced DNA damage when over expressed in vitro, but the importance of this in more physiologically relevant models of disease is unknown. Cytoglobin is a candidate for the tylosis with oesophageal cancer gene, and its expression is strongly down-regulated in non-cancerous oesophageal biopsies from patients with TOC compared with normal biopsies. Therefore, oesophageal cells provide an ideal experimental model to test our hypothesis that downregulation of cytoglobin expression sensitises cells to the damaging effects of reactive oxygen species, particularly oxidative DNA damage, and that this could potentially contribute to the TOC phenotype. In the current study, we tested this hypothesis by manipulating cytoglobin expression in both normal and oesophageal cancer cell lines, which have normal physiological and no expression of cytoglobin respectively. Our results show that, in agreement with previous findings, over expression of cytoglobin in cancer cell lines afforded protection from chemically-induced oxidative stress but this was only observed at non-physiological concentrations of cytoglobin. In addition, down regulation of cytoglobin in normal oesophageal cells had no effect on their sensitivity to oxidative stress as assessed by a number of end points. We therefore conclude that normal physiological concentrations of cytoglobin do not offer cytoprotection from reactive oxygen species, at least in the current experimental model. labels: #Globins'
b'It has been proposed that the frequent loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of an             entire chromosome 17 contig in epithelial ovarian cancers (EOC) is the consequence             of the inactivation of multiple tumour suppressor genes on this chromosome. We             report the characterization of a 453 Kb 17q25 locus shown previously to exhibit             a high frequency of LOH in EOC samples. LOH analysis further defined the minimal             region of deletion to a 65 Kb interval flanked by D17S2239 and D17S2244, which             contains RHBDF2, CYGB and PRCD as tumour suppressor gene candidates. Tissue specific             expression excluded PRCD as a candidate. RHBDF2 was expressed at low levels in             the majority of benign and low malignant potential (LMP) tumours, and in a subset             of malignant ovarian tumour samples, as compared with primary cultures of normal             ovarian surface epithelial cell (NOSE) samples. CYGB was expressed at low levels             in the majority of LMP and malignant samples compared with benign and NOSE samples.             In contrast to CYGB expression, RHBDF2 was expressed at low or undetectable levels             in EOC cell lines exhibiting tumourigenic characteristics and up-regulated in             a genetically modified EOC cell line rendered non-tumourigenic. DNA sequence analysis             identified variants but no apparent deleterious mutations in either gene. Methylation-specific             PCR analysis suggested that promoter methylation of CYGB but not RHBDF2 occurred             in 6 of 31 malignant samples. The results combined suggest that RHBDF2 and CYGB             may play distinctive roles in ovarian cancer and could be added to the growing             roster of chromosome 17 genes implicated in this disease. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a hypoxia-inducible protein with cytoprotective effects in animal models of stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and related disorders, but the molecular mechanisms involved in its induction are unknown. We tested the hypothesis that hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) regulates Ngb levels, using shRNA-mediated knockdown and lentiviral vector-mediated overexpression of the HIF-1\xce\xb1 subunit, in cultured neural (HN33) cells. HIF-1\xce\xb1 knockdown decreased and HIF-1\xce\xb1 overexpression increased Ngb levels, consistent with a connection between HIF-1 and Ngb induction. These findings may have implications for understanding the hypoxia-response repertoire of neural cells and devising therapeutic strategies for neurologic disorders. labels: #Globins"
b'Based on previous studies on bis-acetamides that act as hybrid polar compounds to induce leukemia cell differentiation, an attempt was made to bioisosterically replace the amide moiety with the lipophilic non-classical bioisostere tetrazole. A pyrrole group was also included in the molecule in order to retain the hydrogen bond donor capability. Thus, by linking the two polar ring systems with a highly lipophilic methylene chain compounds 2-4 were synthesized and assessed for their anti-proliferative activity in combination with their ability to induce murine erythroleukemia (MEL) cell differentiation. Furthermore, an initial investigation of the structure-activity relation points for the active compound 3 was undertaken by synthesizing compound 5 (a p-xylene analog) and compound 8 (a methylamidopyrrolyl analog). All compounds caused a dose-dependent inhibition of MEL cell growth but to a different extent. Compound 3 (1,6-bis[5-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-2H-tetrazol-2-yl]hexane) promoted erythroid differentiation in a fifty-fold lower concentration than hexamethylenebisacetamide (HMBA). Though induction of differentiation was to a lesser extent than HMBA, it caused accumulation of 80% Hb-producing cells as compared to that produced by HMBA, leading to differentiation-depended cell growth inhibition equal to that of HMBA after 96\xc2\xa0h in culture. Compound 3 represents a potent inducer of hemoglobin gene activation in leukemic cells. labels: #Globins'
b'In the Metazoa, globin proteins display an underlying unity in tertiary structure that belies an extraordinary diversity in primary structures, biochemical properties, and physiological functions. Phylogenetic reconstructions can reveal which of these functions represent novel, lineage-specific innovations, and which represent ancestral functions that are shared with homologous globin proteins in other eukaryotes and even prokaryotes. To date, our understanding of globin diversity in deuterostomes has been hindered by a dearth of genomic sequence data from the Ambulacraria (echinoderms + hemichordates), the sister group of chordates, and the phylum Xenacoelomorpha, which includes xenoturbellids, acoelomorphs, and nemertodermatids. Here, we report the results of a phylogenetic and comparative genomic analysis of the globin gene repertoire of deuterostomes. We first characterized the globin genes of the acorn worm, Saccoglossus kowalevskii, a representative of the phylum Hemichordata. We then integrated genomic sequence data from the acorn worm into a comprehensive analysis of conserved synteny and phylogenetic relationships among globin genes from representatives of the eight lineages that comprise the superphylum Deuterostomia. The primary aims were 1) to unravel the evolutionary history of the globin gene superfamily in deuterostomes and 2) to use the estimated phylogeny to gain insights into the functional evolution of deuterostome globins. Results of our analyses indicate that the deuterostome common ancestor possessed a repertoire of at least four distinct globin paralogs and that different subsets of these ancestral genes have been retained in each of the descendant organismal lineages. In each major deuterostome group, a different subset of ancestral precursor genes underwent lineage-specific expansions of functional diversity through repeated rounds of gene duplication and divergence. By integrating results of the phylogenetic analysis with available functional data, we discovered that circulating oxygen-transport hemoglobins evolved independently in several deuterostome lineages and that intracellular nerve globins evolved independently in chordates and acoelomorph worms. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVES: (1) To investigate the effects of globin mRNA depletion in detecting differential gene expression in peripheral blood and (2) to investigate changes in peripheral blood gene expression in atopic asthmatic individuals undergoing allergen inhalation challenge.METHODS: Asthmatic subjects (20-60 years of age, with stable, mild allergic asthma, n = 9) underwent allergen inhalation challenges. All had an early asthmatic response of \xe2\x89\xa520% fall in forced expiratory volume in 1 second. Blood was collected immediately prior to and 2 hours after allergen challenge using PAXgene tubes (n = 4) and EDTA tubes (n = 5). Aliquots of the PAXgene blood samples were subjected to globin reduction (PAX-GR). Transcriptome analysis was performed using Affymetrix GeneChip(\xc2\xae) Human Gene 1.0 ST arrays. Data were preprocessed using factor analysis for robust microarray summarization and analyzed using linear models for microarrays. Pathway analyses were performed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis.RESULTS: Globin reduction uncovered probe sets of lower abundance. However, it significantly reduced the ability to detect differentially expressed genes (DEGs) when compared to non-globin-reduced PAXgene samples (PAX-NGR). Combined transcriptional analysis of four PAX-NGR and five EDTA sample pairs identified 1595 DEGs associated with allergen inhalation challenge (false discovery rate \xe2\x89\xa4 5%), with the top-ranked network of perturbed biological functions consisting of inflammatory response, cellular movement, and immune cell trafficking.CONCLUSIONS: While we have demonstrated a diminished ability to detect DEGs after globin reduction, we have nevertheless identified significant changes in the peripheral blood transcriptome of people with mild asthma 2 hours after allergen inhalation challenge. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Transcriptome analysis is of great interest in clinical research, where significant differences between individuals can be translated into biomarkers of disease. Although next generation sequencing provides robust, comparable and highly informative expression profiling data, with several million of tags per blood sample, reticulocyte globin transcripts can constitute up to 76% of total mRNA compromising the detection of low abundant transcripts. We have removed globin transcripts from 6 human whole blood RNA samples with a human globin reduction kit and compared them with the same non-reduced samples using deep Serial Analysis of Gene Expression.RESULTS: Globin tags comprised 52-76% of total tags in our samples. Out of 21,633 genes only 87 genes were detected at significantly lower levels in the globin reduced samples. In contrast, 11,338 genes were detected at significantly higher levels in the globin reduced samples. Removing globin transcripts allowed us to also identify 2112 genes that could not be detected in the non-globin reduced samples, with roles in cell surface receptor signal transduction, G-protein coupled receptor protein signalling pathways and neurological processes.CONCLUSIONS: The reduction of globin transcripts in whole blood samples constitutes a reproducible and reliable method that can enrich data obtained from next generation sequencing-based expression profiling. labels: #Globins'
b'Ngb (neuroglobin) has been identified as a novel endogenous neuroprotectant. However, little is known about the regulatory mechanisms of Ngb expression, especially under conditions of hypoxia. In the present study, we located the core proximal promoter of the mouse Ngb gene to a 554\xc2\xa0bp segment, which harbours putative conserved NF-\xce\xbaB (nuclear factor \xce\xbaB)- and Egr1 (early growth-response factor 1) -binding sites. Overexpression and knockdown of transcription factors p65, p50, Egr1 or Sp1 (specificity protein 1) increased and decreased Ngb expression respectively. Experimental assessments with transfections of mutational Ngb gene promoter constructs, as well as EMSA (electrophoretic mobility-shift assay) and ChIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation) assays, demonstrated that NF-\xce\xbaB family members (p65, p50 and cRel), Egr1 and Sp1 bound in vitro and in vivo to the proximal promoter region of the Ngb gene. Moreover, a \xce\xbaB3 site was found as a pivotal cis-element responsible for hypoxia-induced Ngb promoter activity. NF-\xce\xbaB (p65) and Sp1 were also responsible for hypoxia-induced up-regulation of Ngb expression. Although there are no conserved HREs (hypoxia-response elements) in the promoter of the mouse Ngb gene, the results of the present study suggest that HIF-1\xce\xb1 (hypoxia-inducible factor-1\xce\xb1) is also involved in hypoxia-induced Ngb up-regulation. In conclusion, we have identified that NF-\xce\xbaB, Egr1 and Sp1 played important roles in the regulation of basal Ngb expression via specific interactions with the mouse Ngb promoter. NF-\xce\xbaB, Sp1 and HIF-1\xce\xb1 contributed to the up-regulation of mouse Ngb gene expression under hypoxic conditions. labels: #Globins'
b'Fetal  hemoglobin (Hb F) is characteristic of the fetal development period. However,  in some genetic conditions, such as hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin  (HPFH) and delta-beta thalassemia (\xce\xb4\xce\xb2-thalassemia), Hb F continues to be produced in  adulthood. We evaluated the frequency of two mutations of HPFH, HPFH-1 and  HPFH-2 African, and two mutations in \xce\xb4\xce\xb2-thalassemia, Sicilian and Spanish, in a Brazilian  population. Peripheral blood samples were collected from adults from hospitals  and blood centers in southeast and northeast Brazil. These individuals were  healthy and without complaints of anemia, but had increased Hb F. Samples were  submitted to electrophoretic and chromatographic analyses to quantify Hb F  values and, subsequently, to molecular analyses to verify the mutations. In the  molecular analysis, 16 of the 60 samples showed a heterozygous profile for the  HPFH mutations, two for HPFH-1 and 14 for HPFH-2. In the same sample set, three  were heterozygous for Spanish \xce\xb4\xce\xb2-thalassemia  and none were heterozygous for Sicilian \xce\xb4\xce\xb2- thalassemia. The Hb F values in the HPFH-2  heterozygotes differed from those previously reported for this mutation. In  this group, the HPFH mutations were more frequent than the \xce\xb4\xce\xb2-thalassemia  mutations. The finding of these mutations in this Brazilian population reflects  the mixing process that occurred during its formation. labels: #Globins'
b'PURPOSE: Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a vertebrate globin that is predominantly expressed in the retina and brain. To explore the role of Ngb in retinal neuroprotection during ischemia reperfusion (IR), the authors examined the effect of Ngb overexpression in the retina in vivo by using Ngb-transgenic (Ngb-Tg) mice.METHODS: Retinal IR was induced in Ngb overexpressing Ngb-Tg mice and wild type (WT) mice by cannulating the anterior chamber and transiently elevating the IOP for 60 minutes. After Day 7 of reperfusion, the authors evaluated Ngb mRNA and protein expression in nonischemic control as well as ischemic mice and its effect on retinal histology, mitochondrial oxidative stress, and apoptosis, using morphometry and immunohistochemistry, quantitative PCR analysis and Western blot techniques.RESULTS: Ngb-Tg mice without ischemia overexpress Ngb mRNA 11.3-fold (SE \xc2\xb1 0.457, P<0.05) higher than WT control mice, and this overexpression of Ngb protein was localized to the mitochondria of the ganglion cells, outer and inner plexiform layers, and photoreceptor inner segments. This overexpression of Ngb is associated with decreased mitochondrial DNA damage in Ngb-Tg mice with IR in comparison with WT. Ngb-Tg mice with IR also revealed significant preservation of retinal thickness, significantly less activated caspase 3 protein expression, and apoptosis in comparison with WT mice.CONCLUSIONS: Neuroglobin overexpression plays a neuroprotective role against retinal ischemia reperfusion injury due to decreasing of mitochondrial oxidative stress-mediated apoptosis. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Neuroglobin (Ngb), a neuron-specific globin that binds oxygen in vitro, has been proposed to play a key role in neuronal survival following hypoxic and ischemic insults in the brain. Here we address whether Ngb is required for neuronal survival following acute and prolonged hypoxia in mice genetically Ngb-deficient (Ngb-null). Further, to evaluate whether the lack of Ngb has an effect on hypoxia-dependent gene regulation, we performed a transcriptome-wide analysis of differential gene expression using Affymetrix Mouse Gene 1.0 ST arrays. Differential expression was estimated by a novel data analysis approach, which applies non-parametric statistical inference directly to probe level measurements.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Ngb-null mice were born in expected ratios and were normal in overt appearance, home-cage behavior, reproduction and longevity. Ngb deficiency had no effect on the number of neurons, which stained positive for surrogate markers of endogenous Ngb-expressing neurons in the wild-type (wt) and Ngb-null mice after 48 hours hypoxia. However, an exacerbated hypoxia-dependent increase in the expression of c-FOS protein, an immediate early transcription factor reflecting neuronal activation, and increased expression of Hif1A mRNA were observed in Ngb-null mice. Large-scale gene expression analysis identified differential expression of the glycolytic pathway genes after acute hypoxia in Ngb-null mice, but not in the wts. Extensive hypoxia-dependent regulation of chromatin remodeling, mRNA processing and energy metabolism pathways was apparent in both genotypes.SIGNIFICANCE: According to these results, it appears unlikely that the loss of Ngb affects neuronal viability during hypoxia in vivo. Instead, Ngb-deficiency appears to enhance the hypoxia-dependent response of Hif1A and c-FOS protein while also altering the transcriptional regulation of the glycolytic pathway. Bioinformatic analysis of differential gene expression yielded novel predictions suggesting that chromatin remodeling and mRNA metabolism are among the key regulatory mechanisms when adapting to prolonged hypoxia. labels: #Globins'
b'AIMS: We investigated the effects of globin digest (GD) and its active ingredient Trp-Thr-Gln-Arg (WTQR) on galactosamine/lipopolysaccharide (GalN/LPS)-induced liver injury in imprinting control region (ICR) mice.MAIN METHODS: The effects of WTQR and GD on the liver injury were examined by measuring the survival rate, serum aminotransferase activities, hepatic components, antioxidant enzyme activities, histopathological analysis, serum levels and hepatic gene expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-\xce\xb1), macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), and nitric oxide (NO) or inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB) p65 content in GalN/LPS-treated ICR mice. RAW264 mouse macrophages were used to confirm the anti-inflammatory effects of WTQR and GD on the macrophages.KEY FINDINGS: WTQR and GD increased the survival rate, suppressed the serum aminotransferase activities, serum levels and hepatic gene expression of TNF-\xce\xb1, MIP-2, and NO or iNOS, and nuclear NF-\xce\xbaB p65 content in GalN/LPS-treated mice; decreased the oxidized glutathione content, increased the superoxide dismutase activity, and decreased the histopathological grade values of the hepatocyte necrosis and lobular inflammation in GalN/LPS-injured liver; and suppressed the release levels and gene expression of TNF-\xce\xb1, MIP-2, and NO or iNOS, and nuclear NF-\xce\xbaB p65 content in LPS-stimulated RAW264 macrophages. WTQR and GD may improve the antioxidant defense system and inflammatory status in GalN/LPS-injured liver.SIGNIFICANCE: These findings indicate that WTQR and GD have hepatoprotective effects on GalN/LPS-induced liver injury in ICR mice. labels: #Globins'
b'Comparative genomic studies have led to the recent identification of several novel globin types in the Metazoa. They have revealed a surprising evolutionary diversity of functions beyond the familiar O(2) supply roles of hemoglobin and myoglobin. Here we report the discovery of a hitherto unrecognized family of proteins with a unique modular architecture, possessing an N-terminal calpain-like domain, an internal, circular permuted globin domain, and an IQ calmodulin-binding motif. Putative orthologs are present in the genomes of many metazoan taxa, including vertebrates. The calpain-like region is homologous to the catalytic domain II of the large subunit of human calpain-7. The globin domain satisfies the criteria of a myoglobin-like fold but is rearranged and split into two parts. The recombinantly expressed human globin domain exhibits an absorption spectrum characteristic of hexacoordination of the heme iron atom. Molecular evolutionary analyses indicate that this chimeric globin family is phylogenetically ancient and originated in the common ancestor to animals and choanoflagellates. In humans and mice, the gene is predominantly expressed in testis tissue, and we propose the name "androglobin" (Adgb). Expression is associated with postmeiotic stages of spermatogenesis and is insensitive to experimental hypoxia. Evidence exists for increased gene expression in fertile compared with infertile males. labels: #Globins'
b"STUDY DESIGN: We introduced a lentiviral vector containing the neuroglobin (Ngb) gene into the injured spinal cords to evaluate the therapeutic potential of Ngb in a rabbit model of spinal cord injury (SCI).OBJECTIVES: It is not clear whether Ngb has the neuroprotective role to SCI. The purpose of this study was to investigate the possible protective effects of the Ngb overexpression on traumatic SCI in rabbits.SETTING: Department of Orthopedic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, People's Republic of China.METHODS: A lentiviral vector containing Ngb gene was constructed and injected at the SCI sites 24 h after SCI. The rabbits' motor functions were evaluated by the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan rating scale. Quantitative real-time PCRs, western blots, malondialdehyde (MDA) tests and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP end labeling assays were also performed.RESULTS: The Ngb expression in the LV-Ngb group increased significantly at days 7, 14 and 21. A more significant functional improvement was observed in the LV-Ngb group compared with the improvements in all other groups at days 14 and 21. The traumatic SCI seemed to lead to an increase in the levels of MDA and in the number of the apoptotic cells, which could be prevented by the LV-Ngb treatment.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that the Ngb overexpression may have potential therapeutic benefits for both reducing secondary damages and improving the outcomes after traumatic SCI. labels: #Globins"
b'The aim of this study was to reveal the protection role and the related mechanism of cytoglobin on the oxidation induced hepatic stellate cell damage. We applied siRNA to interfere the endogenous cytoglobin gene, used recombinant cytoglobin protein to treat the completely activated human hepatic stellate cell line LX-2 and the incompletely activated primary rat hepatic stellate cells, or over-expressed cytoglobin protein in LX-2 cells. We used two different oxidative-stress related models, the hydrogen peroxide model and the iron-overload model in our experiments and investigated the proliferation status and the intracellular superoxide level of the cells. The results showed that endogenous cytoglobin exerted significant protective effects on hydrogen peroxide or iron-overload induced LX-2 cell damage, confirming that upregulation of cytoglobin was the protective response of activated hepatic stellate cells to oxidative stress. Recombinant cytoglobin protein could protect LX-2 cells from oxidation induced damage, and prevent primary rat hepatic stellate cells from excessive proliferation and injury. The cytoplasmic reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenging capacity of the recombinant cytoglobin protein was not as good as its capacity in scavenging ROS outside the cells, likely owing to the lack of active transporting mechanisms. Intracellular over-expression of cytoglobin protein could exert significant protective effect on LX-2 cells treated with hydrogen peroxide or iron-overload. Our results would accelerate the exploitation of new anti-fibrotic targets. labels: #Globins'
b'Plants often face hypoxic stress as a result of flooding and waterlogged soils. During these periods, they must continue ATP production and nitrogen metabolism if they are to survive. The normal pathway of reductive nitrogen assimilation in non-legumes, nitrate, and nitrite reductase can be inhibited during low oxygen conditions that are associated with the buildup of toxic metabolites such as nitrite and nitric oxide, so the plant must also have a means of detoxifying these molecules. Compared to animal hemoglobins, plant and cyanobacterial hemoglobins are adept at reducing nitrite to nitric oxide under anaerobic conditions. Here we test their abilities to reduce hydroxylamine, a proposed intermediate of nitrite reductase, under anaerobic conditions. We find that class 1 rice nonsymbiotic hemoglobin (rice nsHb1) and the hemoglobin from the cyanobacterium Synechocystis (SynHb) catalyze the reduction of hydroxylamine to ammonium at rates 100-2500 times faster than animal hemoglobins including myoglobin, neuroglobin, cytoglobin, and blood cell hemoglobin. These results support the hypothesis that plant and cyanobacterial hemoglobins contribute to anaerobic nitrogen metabolism in support of anaerobic respiration and survival during hypoxia. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a globin protein that is highly and specifically expressed in brain neurons. A large volume of evidence has proven that Ngb is a neuroprotective molecule against hypoxic/ischemic brain injury and other related neurological disorder; however, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Aiming to provide more clues in understanding the molecular mechanisms of Ngb's neuroprotection, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening to search for proteins that interact with Ngb. From a mouse brain cDNA library, we found totally 36 proteins that potentially interact with Ngb, and 10 of them were each identified in multiple positive clones. The shared sequences within these multiple clones are more likely to be Ngb-interacting domains. In primary cultured mouse cortical neurons, immuno-precipitation was performed to confirm the interactions of selected proteins with Ngb. The discovered Ngb-interacting proteins in this study include those involved in energy metabolism, mitochondria function, and signaling pathways for cell survival and proliferation. Our findings provide molecular targets for investigating protein interaction-based biological functions and neuroprotective mechanisms of Ngb. labels: #Globins"
b'As the Southern Ocean cooled to -1.8 \xc2\xb0C over the past 40 My, the teleostean clade Notothenioidei diversified and, under reduced selection pressure for an oxygen-transporting apparatus, became less reliant on hemoglobin and red blood cells. At the extreme of this trend, the crown group of Antarctic icefishes (Channichthyidae) lost both components of oxygen transport. Under the decreased selection scenario, we hypothesized that the Antarctic dragonfishes (Bathydraconidae, the red-blooded sister clade to the icefishes) evolved lower blood hemoglobin concentrations because their globin gene complexes (\xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin gene pairs linked by a regulatory intergene) transcribe globin mRNAs less effectively than those of basal notothenioids (e.g., the Nototheniidae [notothens]). To test our hypothesis, we 1) sequenced the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2-intergenes of the adult globin complexes of three notothen and eight dragonfish species and 2) measured globin transcript levels in representative species from each group. The typical nototheniid intergene was \xe2\x88\xbc3-4 kb in length. The bathydraconid intergenes resolved into three subclasses (long [3.8 kb], intermediate [3.0 kb], and short [1.5-2.3 kb]) that corresponded to the three subclades proposed for the taxon. Although they varied in length due to indels, the three notothen and eight dragonfish intergenes contained a conserved \xe2\x88\xbc90-nt element that we have previously shown to be required for globin gene transcription. Using the quantitative polymerase chain reaction, we found that globin mRNA levels in red cells from one notothen species and from one species of each dragonfish subclade were equivalent statistically. Thus, our results indicate that the bathydraconids have evolved adult globin loci whose regulatory intergenes tend to be shorter than those of the more basal nototheniids yet are equivalent in transcriptional efficacy. Their low blood hemoglobin concentrations are most likely due to reduction in hematocrit. labels: #Globins'
b"Hemoglobin of bony fish and higher vertebrates is a tetrameric protein constructed by 2 \xce\xb1- and 2 \xce\xb2-globins, which are expressed in a developmental stage-specific manner. The genomic organization of genes for embryonic and adult \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin varies from species to species. In fish, it is known that there is a unique genomic organization of globin genes, that is, \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes are arranged in a bi-directional and head-to-head orientation with respect to transcription start sites. In medaka, we have demonstrated that 14 globin genes are located in 2 different clusters, and 5 pairs of the \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes were found to be organized in a head-to-head orientation. The developmental expression patterns of the 11 globin genes were classified into 4 types. To clarify how their developmental stage-specific expressions are regulated, we produced 4 types of GFP- or RFP-transgenic medaka. Such transgenic medaka revealed that each of the 1-1.7 kbp 5' upstream sequences from respective globin genes possesses the ability to regulate the developmental stage-specific globin gene expression. In particular, the intervals between head-to-head \xce\xb13 and \xce\xb23, and \xce\xb14 and \xce\xb24 genes controlled the synchronized expression of the globin genes located at both sides of the intervals, which is significant to understand the mechanism by which equal amounts of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globins are expressed in erythroid cells. We also demonstrated that the head-to-head intervals can control the expression of the globin genes located at both sides. These findings are significant to understand the mechanism by which \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globins are equally expressed in erythroid cells. labels: #Globins"
b'BACKGROUND: Proliferative inflammatory atrophy (PIA) has been proposed as a potential precursor for prostate cancer. The precise molecular abnormalities in prostatic atrophy compared to high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (HGPIN) and carcinoma have not been fully defined.METHODS: We utilized laser capture microdissection and microarray analysis to characterize cells of PIA, HGPIN, invasive prostatic carcinoma, and non-atrophic benign prostatic epithelium (NABE). Cytoglobin was selected for immunohistochemistry (IHC) validation. IHC stains were evaluated for proportion of positive glands, and intensity of cytoglobin staining. An immunoreactive score (IR score) was determined as the product of the percentage of positive staining and intensity.RESULTS: Microarray analysis revealed probe sets that separated the microdissected cell types. Several genes showed overlapping expression patterns between PIA and PIN, and HGPIN and invasive carcinoma. Cytoglobin protein expression was detected in 57/93 (61%) of NABE and BPH cases, 92/93 atrophy (99%), 3/34 (9%) of PIN, and 23/61 carcinoma (37%) samples. The highest IHC scores were calculated for atrophy foci. A subset (33%) of atrophy cases showed the same low-cytoglobin expression level as PIN and carcinoma.CONCLUSIONS: Prostatic epithelium can be stratified into normal, atrophic, PIN, and invasive carcinoma categories based on differential genetic signatures. Cytoglobin, a protein that can be induced in response to oxidative stress, was elevated in most atrophy foci, suggesting hypoxic, and/or oxidative damage. The lower level of cytoglobin seen in neoplastic cells and 33% of atrophy foci may indicate a shared susceptibility to oxidative damage for this subset of atrophy cases and prostatic neoplasia. labels: #Globins'
b'Activation of erythropoietin receptor allows erythroblasts to generate erythrocytes. In a search for genes that are up-regulated during this differentiation process, we have identified ISG15 as being induced during late erythroid differentiation. ISG15 belongs to the ubiquitin-like protein family and is covalently linked to target proteins by the enzymes of the ISGylation machinery. Using both in vivo and in vitro differentiating erythroblasts, we show that expression of ISG15 as well as the ISGylation process related enzymes Ube1L, UbcM8 and Herc6 are induced during erythroid differentiation. Loss of ISG15 in mice results in decreased number of BFU-E/CFU-E in bone marrow, concomitant with an increased number of these cells in the spleen of these animals. ISG15(-/-) bone marrow and spleen-derived erythroblasts show a less differentiated phenotype both in vivo and in vitro, and over-expression of ISG15 in erythroblasts is found to facilitate erythroid differentiation. Furthermore, we have shown that important players of erythroid development, such as STAT5, Globin, PLC \xce\xb3 and ERK2 are ISGylated in erythroid cells. This establishes a new role for ISG15, besides its well-characterized anti-viral functions, during erythroid differentiation. labels: #Globins'
b'Study on the phenotypic expression of hemoglobin (Hb) A(2) and Hb E in Hb E disorders has been difficult due to the co-separation of Hb A(2) and Hb E in most Hb analysis assays. Because these two Hbs are separated on capillary electrophoresis, we studied phenotypic expression of Hbs A(2), E and F in various Hb E disorders using this system. This was done on 362 subjects with several Hb E disorders including heterozygous Hb E, homozygous Hb E, \xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E, \xce\xb4\xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E, and Hb Lepore/Hb E and those of these disorders with several forms of \xce\xb1-thalassemia. Normal controls showed Hb A(2) of 2.7 \xc2\xb1 0.3%. Heterozygous Hb E and homozygous Hb E had elevated Hb A(2) i.e. 3.8 \xc2\xb1 0.3% and 4.8 \xc2\xb1 0.5%, respectively. Further elevations were observed for \xce\xb2(0)-thalassemia/Hb E (6.1 \xc2\xb1 1.9%) and \xce\xb2(+)-thalassemia/Hb E (7.1 \xc2\xb1 1.2%). Interestingly, no elevation of Hb A(2) was found in the \xce\xb4\xce\xb2-thalassemia/Hb E, and Hb Lepore/Hb E (2.3 \xc2\xb1 0.3%) but higher Hb F levels were noted which could be useful diagnostic markers. The levels of Hb E were variable. Co-inheritance of these Hb E disorders with \xce\xb1-thalassemia were associated with lower outputs of Hb E and Hb F but the levels of Hb A(2) were not altered. Different phenotypic expression of Hb A(2), Hb E and Hb F could help in differential diagnosis of these Hb E related disorders commonly encountered in the regions where access to molecular techniques is limited. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (NGB) is a characterized heme globin that is widely expressed in the vertebrate central and peripheral nervous system as well as retina and endocrine tissues. However, to date, it is not determined whether functional NGB is expressed in cells of glia origin. In this study, we aimed to explore the detailed expression of NGB in a rat astrocytoma cell line (C6) and human astrocytoma cell line (U251) by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunofluorescence, and Western blotting, and to detect the expression of NGB in human astrocytoma tissues by an immunohistochemical method. We found that NGB was present in a rat astrocytoma cell line (C6), human astrocytoma cell line (U251), and human astrocytoma tissues. The expression and potential roles of NGB in astrocytomas may provide insight into the mechanisms of tumor cells to adapt and survive in hypoxic microenvironments and also represent a novel therapeutic approach to astrocytomas. labels: #Globins'
b'The vertebrate globin gene repertoire consists of seven members that differ in terms of structure, function and phyletic distribution. While hemoglobin, myoglobin, cytoglobin, and neuroglobin are present in almost all gnathostomes examined so far, other globin genes, like globin X, are much more restricted in their phyletic distribution. Till today, globin X has only been found in teleost fish and Xenopus. Here, we report that globin X is also present in the genomes of the sea lamprey, ghost shark and reptiles. Moreover, the identification of orthologs of globin X in crustacean, insects, platyhelminthes, and hemichordates confirms its ancient origin. labels: #Globins'
b'Acute inhalation of combustion smoke causes neurological deficits in survivors. Inhaled smoke includes carbon monoxide, noxious gases, and a hypoxic environment, which disrupt oxygenation and generate free radicals. To replicate a smoke-inhalation scenario, we developed an experimental model of acute exposure to smoke for the awake mouse/rat and detected induction of biomarkers of oxidative stress. These include inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory complexes and formation of oxidative DNA damage in the brain. DNA damage is likely to contribute to neuronal dysfunction and progression of brain injury. In the search for strategies to attenuate the smoke-initiated brain injury, we produced a transgenic mouse overexpressing the neuronal globin protein neuroglobin. Neuroglobin was neuroprotective in diverse models of ischemic/hypoxic/toxic brain injuries. Here, we report lesser inhibition of respiratory complex I and reduced formation of smoke-induced DNA damage in neuroglobin transgenic compared to wild-type mouse brain. DNA damage was assessed using the standard comet assay, as well as a modified comet assay done in conjunction with an enzyme that excises oxidized guanines that form readily under conditions of oxidative stress. Both comet assays revealed that overexpressed neuroglobin attenuates the formation of oxidative DNA damage, in vivo, in the brain. These findings suggest that elevated neuroglobin exerts neuroprotection, in part, by decreasing the impact of acute smoke inhalation on the integrity of neuronal DNA. labels: #Globins'
b'Protoglobin is the first globin found in Archaea. Its biological role is still unknown, although this protein can bind O(2), CO, and NO reversibly in vitro. The X-ray structure of Methanosarcina acetivorans protoglobin (MaPgb) has shown that access of ligands to the heme, which is completely buried within the protein matrix, can be granted by two apolar tunnels, which are mainly defined by helices G and B (tunnel 1), and helices B and E (tunnel 2). Here we analyze the structural and dynamical behavior of MaPgb through molecular dynamics and computational techniques aimed at shedding light on distinctive features of ligand migration through the tunnels that may be linked to functionality. While tunnel 2 is found to be accessible to diatomic ligands in both deoxygenated and oxygenated forms of the protein, the accessibility of tunnel 1 is controlled through the synergistic effect of both the protein dimeric state and the presence of the heme-bound ligand. Thus, dimerization mainly affects the spatial arrangement of helix G, which influences the shape of tunnel 1. Ligand accessibility through this tunnel is regulated by Phe(145)G8, which can adopt open and closed conformations. Noteworthy, the ratio between open and closed states is modulated by protein dimerization and more strikingly by ligand binding. In particular, sensing of the ligand is mediated by Phe(93)E11, and the steric hindrance between Phe(93)E11 and the heme-bound ligand alters the structural and dynamical behavior of helices B and E, which facilitates opening of tunnel 1. This functional mechanism provides a basis to understand the finding that ligation favors fast rebinding from ligand binding kinetic to MaPgb. Finally, it also suggests that MaPgb might be physiologically involved in a ligand-controlled bimolecular chemical process. labels: #Globins'
b'We have previously shown that hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) triggers irreversible oxidation of amino acids exclusive to the \xce\xb2-chains of purified human hemoglobin (HbAo). However, it is not clear, whether \xce\xb1- or \xce\xb2-subunit Hb variants exhibit different oxidative resistance to H(2)O(2) when compared to their native HbAo. Hb Providence contains two \xce\xb2-subunit variants with single amino acid mutations at \xce\xb2Lys82\xe2\x86\x92Asp (\xce\xb2K82D) and at \xce\xb2Lys82\xe2\x86\x92Asn (\xce\xb2K82N) positions and binds oxygen at lower affinity than wild type HbA. We have separated Hb Providence into its 3 component fractions, and contrasted oxidative reactions of its \xce\xb2-mutant fractions with HbAo. Relative to HbAo, both \xce\xb2K82N and \xce\xb2K82D fractions showed similar autoxidation kinetics and similar initial oxidation reaction rates with H(2)O(2). However, a more profound pattern of changes was seen in HbAo than in the two Providence fractions. The structural changes in HbAo include a collapse of \xce\xb2-subunits, and \xce\xb1-\xce\xb1 dimer formation in the presence of excess H(2)O(2). Mass spectrometric and amino acid analysis revealed that \xce\xb2Cys93 and \xce\xb2Cys112 were oxidized in the HbAo fraction, consistent with oxidative pathways driven by a ferrylHb and its protein radical. These amino acids were oxidized at a lesser extent in \xce\xb2K82D fraction. While the 3 isolated components of Hb Providence exhibited similar ligand binding and oxidation reaction kinetics, the variant fractions were more effective in consuming H(2)O(2) and safely internalizing radicals through the ferric/ferryl pseudoperoxidase cycle. labels: #Globins'
b'In heme-based sensor proteins, ligand binding to heme in a sensor domain induces conformational changes that eventually lead to changes in enzymatic activity of an associated catalytic domain. The bacterial oxygen sensor FixL is the best-studied example of these proteins and displays marked differences in dynamic behavior with respect to model globin proteins. We report a mid-IR study of the configuration and ultrafast dynamics of CO in the distal heme pocket site of the sensor PAS domain FixLH, employing a recently developed method that provides a unique combination of high spectral resolution and range and high sensitivity. Anisotropy measurements indicate that CO rotates toward the heme plane upon dissociation, as is the case in globins. Remarkably, CO bound to the heme iron is tilted by ~30\xc2\xb0 with respect to the heme normal, which contrasts to the situation in myoglobin and in present FixLH-CO X-ray crystal structure models. This implies protein-environment-induced strain on the ligand, which is possibly at the origin of a very rapid docking-site population in a single conformation. Our observations likely explain the unusually low affinity of FixL for CO that is at the origin of the weak ligand discrimination between CO and O(2). Moreover, we observe orders of magnitude faster vibrational relaxation of dissociated CO in FixL than in globins, implying strong interactions of the ligand with the distal heme pocket environment. Finally, in the R220H FixLH mutant protein, where CO is H-bonded to a distal histidine, we demonstrate that the H-bond is maintained during photolysis. Comparison with extensively studied globin proteins unveils a surprisingly rich variety in both structural and dynamic properties of the interaction of a diatomic ligand with the ubiquitous b-type heme-proximal histidine system in different distal pockets. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (NGB), a newly discovered member of the globin superfamily, may regulate neuronal survival under hypoxia or oxidative stress. Although NGB is greatly expressed in retinal neurons, the biological functions of NGB in retinal diseases remain largely unknown. We investigated the role of NGB in an experimental model of glaucoma, a neurodegenerative disorder that usually involves elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP). Elevated IOP is thought to induce oxidative stress in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), thereby causing RGC death and, eventually, blindness. We found that NGB plays a critical role in increasing RGC resistance to ocular hypertension and glaucomatous damage. Elevation of IOP stimulated a transient up-regulation of endogenous NGB in RGCs. Constitutive overexpression of NGB in transgenic mice prevented RGC damage induced by glutamate cytotoxicity in vitro and/or by chronic IOP elevation in vivo. Moreover, overexpression of NGB attenuated ocular hypertension-induced superoxide production and the associated decrease in ATP levels in mice, suggesting that NGB acts as an endogenous neuroprotectant to reduce oxidative stress and improve mitochondrial function, thereby promoting RGC survival. Thus, NGB may modulate RGC susceptibility to glaucomatous neural damage. Manipulating the expression and bioactivity of NGB may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for glaucoma. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin protects neurons from hypoxia in vitro and in vivo; however, the underlying mechanisms for this effect remain poorly understood. Most of the neuroglobin is present in a hexacoordinate state with proximal and distal histidines in the heme pocket directly bound to the heme iron. At equilibrium, the concentration of the five-coordinate neuroglobin remains very low (0.1-5%). Recent studies have shown that post-translational redox regulation of neuroglobin surface thiol disulfide formation increases the open probability of the heme pocket and allows nitrite binding and reaction to form NO. We hypothesized that the equilibrium between the six- and five-coordinate states and secondary reactions with nitrite to form NO could be regulated by other hypoxia-dependent post-translational modification(s). Protein sequence models identified candidate sites for both 14-3-3 binding and phosphorylation. In both in vitro experiments and human SH-SY5Y neuronal cells exposed to hypoxia and glucose deprivation, we observed that 1) neuroglobin phosphorylation and protein-protein interactions with 14-3-3 increase during hypoxic and metabolic stress; 2) neuroglobin binding to 14-3-3 stabilizes and increases the half-life of phosphorylation; and 3) phosphorylation increases the open probability of the heme pocket, which increases ligand binding (CO and nitrite) and accelerates the rate of anaerobic nitrite reduction to form NO. These data reveal a series of hypoxia-dependent post-translational modifications to neuroglobin that regulate the six-to-five heme pocket equilibrium and heme access to ligands. Hypoxia-regulated reactions of nitrite and neuroglobin may contribute to the cellular adaptation to hypoxia. labels: #Globins'
b'It has been hypothesized that two successive rounds of whole-genome duplication (WGD) in the stem lineage of vertebrates provided genetic raw materials for the evolutionary innovation of many vertebrate-specific features. However, it has seldom been possible to trace such innovations to specific functional differences between paralogous gene products that derive from a WGD event. Here, we report genomic evidence for a direct link between WGD and key physiological innovations in the vertebrate oxygen transport system. Specifically, we demonstrate that key globin proteins that evolved specialized functions in different aspects of oxidative metabolism (hemoglobin, myoglobin, and cytoglobin) represent paralogous products of two WGD events in the vertebrate common ancestor. Analysis of conserved macrosynteny between the genomes of vertebrates and amphioxus (subphylum Cephalochordata) revealed that homologous chromosomal segments defined by myoglobin + globin-E, cytoglobin, and the \xce\xb1-globin gene cluster each descend from the same linkage group in the reconstructed proto-karyotype of the chordate common ancestor. The physiological division of labor between the oxygen transport function of hemoglobin and the oxygen storage function of myoglobin played a pivotal role in the evolution of aerobic energy metabolism, supporting the hypothesis that WGDs helped fuel key innovations in vertebrate evolution. labels: #Globins'
b'The proximal side of dehaloperoxidase-hemoglobin A (DHP A) from Amphitrite ornata has been modified via site-directed mutagenesis of methionine 86 into aspartate (M86D) to introduce an Asp-His-Fe triad charge relay. X-ray crystallographic structure determination of the metcyano forms of M86D [Protein Data Bank (PDB) entry  3MYN ] and M86E (PDB entry  3MYM ) mutants reveal the structural origins of a stable catalytic triad in DHP A. A decrease in the rate of H(2)O(2) activation as well as a lowered reduction potential versus that of the wild-type enzyme was observed in M86D. One possible explanation for the significantly lower activity is an increased affinity for the distal histidine in binding to the heme Fe to form a bis-histidine adduct. Resonance Raman spectroscopy demonstrates a pH-dependent ligation by the distal histidine in M86D, which is indicative of an increased trans effect. At pH 5.0, the heme Fe is five-coordinate, and this structure resembles the wild-type DHP A resting state. However, at pH 7.0, the distal histidine appears to form a six-coordinate ferric bis-histidine (hemichrome) adduct. These observations can be explained by the effect of the increased positive charge on the heme Fe on the formation of a six-coordinate low-spin adduct, which inhibits the ligation and activation of H(2)O(2) as required for peroxidase activity. The results suggest that the proximal charge relay in peroxidases regulate the redox potential of the heme Fe but that the trans effect is a carefully balanced property that can both activate H(2)O(2) and attract ligation by the distal histidine. To understand the balance of forces that modulate peroxidase reactivity, we studied three M86 mutants, M86A, M86D, and M86E, by spectroelectrochemistry and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy of (13)C- and (15)N-labeled cyanide adducts as probes of the redox potential and of the trans effect in the heme Fe, both of which can be correlated with the proximity of negative charge to the N(\xce\xb4) hydrogen of the proximal histidine, consistent with an Asp-His-Fe charge relay observed in heme peroxidases. labels: #Globins'
b'The family of vertebrate globins includes hemoglobin, myoglobin, and other O(2)-binding proteins of yet unclear functions. Among these, globin X is restricted to fish and amphibians. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) globin X is expressed at low levels in neurons of the central nervous system and appears to be associated with the sensory system. The protein harbors a unique N-terminal extension with putative N-myristoylation and S-palmitoylation sites, suggesting membrane-association. Intracellular localization and transport of globin X was studied in 3T3 cells employing green fluorescence protein fusion constructs. Both myristoylation and palmitoylation sites are required for correct targeting and membrane localization of globin X. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that a vertebrate globin has been identified as component of the cell membrane. Globin X has a hexacoordinate binding scheme and displays cooperative O(2) binding with a variable affinity (P(50)\xe2\x88\xbc1.3-12.5 torr), depending on buffer conditions. A respiratory function of globin X is unlikely, but analogous to some prokaryotic membrane-globins it may either protect the lipids in cell membrane from oxidation or may act as a redox-sensing or signaling protein. labels: #Globins'
b"Hell's Gate globin I (HGbI), a heme-containing protein structurally homologous to mammalian neuroglobins, has been identified from an acidophilic and thermophilic obligate methanotroph, Methylacidiphilum infernorum. HGbI has very high affinity for O(2) and shows barely detectable autoxidation in the pH range of 5.2-8.6 and temperature range of 25-50\xc2\xb0C. Examination of the heme pocket by X-ray crystallography and molecular dynamics showed that conformational movements of Tyr29(B10) and Gln50(E7), as well as structural flexibility of the GH loop and H-helix, may play a role in modulating its ligand binding behavior. Bacterial HGbI's unique resistance to the sort of extreme acidity that would extract heme from any other hemoglobin makes it an ideal candidate for comparative structure-function studies of the expanding globin superfamily. labels: #Globins"
b'Neuroglobin (NGB) is a recently discovered globin, which is widely expressed in vertebrates central and peripheral nervous systems. Previous studies have shown that NGB is important in protecting neurons from hypoxic/ischemic brain injuries. However, there are no reports on the neuroprotective effects of NGB after mechanical injury. Currently, we showed that the NGB expression level in neurons increased continuously from 2 h after injury, and reached a peak at 16 h (p<0.01), after which it decreased sharply. NGB that was overexpressed in mechanically injured B104 cells showed significant neuroprotective effects. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity decreased and cell survival rates increased (p<0.01, n=5). In the rat model of focal brain trauma, the NGB expression increased sharply at 1 h, after which it increased continuously until it reached a peak at 6 h, and then gradually decreased (p<0.01, n=5). Furthermore, moderate and severe injury resulted in significantly higher NGB levels than did mild injury (p<0.01, n=5). Our results indicate that NGB exerts significant neuroprotective effects after mechanical injury, and thus has important implications for the prognosis and cure of traumatic brain injury. labels: #Globins'
b'The purpose of the present work is to study the vacuum ultraviolet radiation action on the optical and chromatographic characteristics of human hemoglobin molecules and their components - haem and globin. Using the methods of spectrophotometry and thin layer chromatography (TLC), we have investigated into the structural changes of molecules of human hemoglobin, haem and globin, induced by the influence of vacuum UV light (gamma = 118-134 nm, dose - 1.2 kJ/m2). It has been shown that vacuum ultraviolet radiation induces an infringement of the higher types of the spatial organization ofglobin molecules, thus leading to the changes in the structural state of the albuminous globule. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Microarray-based gene expression analysis of peripheral whole blood is a common strategy in the development of clinically relevant biomarker panels for a variety of human diseases. However, the results of such an analysis are often plagued by decreased sensitivity and reliability due to the effects of relatively high levels of globin mRNA in whole blood. Globin reduction assays have been shown to overcome such effects, but they require large amounts of total RNA and may induce distinct gene expression profiles. The Illumina whole genome DASL assay can detect gene expression levels using partially degraded RNA samples and has the potential to detect rare transcripts present in highly heterogeneous whole blood samples without the need for globin reduction. We assessed the utility of the whole genome DASL assay in an analysis of peripheral whole blood gene expression profiles.RESULTS: We find that gene expression detection is significantly increased with the use of whole genome DASL compared to the standard IVT-based direct hybridization. Additionally, globin-probe negative whole genome DASL did not exhibit significant improvements over globin-probe positive whole genome DASL. Globin reduction further increases the detection sensitivity and reliability of both whole genome DASL and IVT-based direct hybridization with little effect on raw intensity correlations. Raw intensity correlations between total RNA and globin reduced RNA were 0.955 for IVT-based direct hybridization and 0.979 for whole genome DASL.CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the detection sensitivity of the whole genome DASL assay is higher than the IVT-based direct hybridization assay, with or without globin reduction, and should be considered in conjunction with globin reduction methods for future blood-based gene expression studies. labels: #Globins'
b'The molecular mechanisms underlying erythroid-specific gene regulation remain incompletely understood. Closely spaced binding sites for GATA, NF-E2/maf, and CACCC interacting transcription factors play functionally important roles in globin and other erythroid-specific gene expression. We and others recently identified the CACCC-binding transcription factor ZBP-89 as a novel GATA-1 and NF-E2/mafK interacting partner. Here, we examined the role of ZBP-89 in human globin gene regulation and erythroid maturation using a primary CD34(+) cell ex vivo differentiation system. We show that ZBP-89 protein levels rise dramatically during human erythroid differentiation and that ZBP-89 occupies key cis-regulatory elements within the globin and other erythroid gene loci. ZBP-89 binding correlates strongly with RNA Pol II occupancy, active histone marks, and high-level gene expression. ZBP-89 physically associates with the histone acetyltransferases p300 and Gcn5/Trrap, and occupies common sites with Gcn5 within the human globin loci. Lentiviral short hairpin RNAs knockdown of ZBP-89 results in reduced Gcn5 occupancy, decreased acetylated histone 3 levels, lower globin and erythroid-specific gene expression, and impaired erythroid maturation. Addition of the histone deacetylase inhibitor valproic acid partially reverses the reduced globin gene expression. These findings reveal an activating role for ZBP-89 in human globin gene regulation and erythroid differentiation. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin, generated using genetic engineering method, is a kind of recombinant human stellate cell activation-associated protein. We speculate that it could influence the development of hepatic fibrosis like Sellate cell activation-associated protein which was discovered by Kawada et al. Therefore, we investigated its anti-fibrosis effect on liver both in vivo and in vitro. During our research, we found that cytoglobin showed obvious effect compared with the control group on Thioacetamide-induced liver fibrosis in SD rats, including significantly decrease in aspartate aminotransferase, Hyaluronic acid, laminin and collagen I(Col I) levels in serum and hydroxyproline in livers, which are the important indices reflecting the degree of hepatic fibrosis. Meanwhile, the viability of rat hepatic stellate cell line T6 (HSC-T6) cells was inhibited by cytoglobin and the apoptosis induced by cytoglobin in HSC-T6 cells was detected by Annexin V/PI double staining. Activation of the caspase cascade including caspase-3 for the intrinsic pathways was demonstrated. The results also showed that the expression of Bcl-2 protein decreased whereas that of Bax protein increased, leading to an increase of the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio. Our results demonstrated that cytoglobin exhibited anti-fibrosis activity on livers in vivo and in vitro, involving apoptosis induction. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: Lens epithelium-derived growth factor p75 (LEDGF/p75) is a stress survival transcription co-activator and autoantigen that is overexpressed in tumors, including prostate cancer (PCa). This oncoprotein promotes resistance to cell death induced by oxidative stress and chemotherapy by mechanisms that remain unclear. To get insights into these mechanisms we identified candidate target stress genes of LEDGF/p75 using pathway-specific gene expression profiling in PCa cells.METHODS: A "Human oxidative stress and antioxidant defense" qPCR array was used to identify genes exhibiting significant expression changes in response to knockdown or overexpression of LEDGF/p75 in PC-3 cells. Validation of array results was performed by additional qPCR and immunoblotting.RESULTS: Cytoglobin (CYGB), Phosphoinositide-binding protein PIP3-E/IPCEF-1, superoxidase dismutase 3 (SOD3), thyroid peroxidase (TPO), and albumin (ALB) exhibited significant transcript down- and up-regulation in response to LEDGF/p75 knockdown and overexpression, respectively. CYGB gene was selected for further validation based on its emerging role as a stress oncoprotein in human malignancies. In light of previous reports indicating that LEDGF/p75 regulates peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), and that PRDXs exhibit differential expression in PCa, we also examined the relationship between these proteins in PCa cells. Our validation data revealed that changes in LEDGF/p75 transcript and protein expression in PCa cells closely paralleled those of CYGB, but not those of the PRDXs.CONCLUSIONS: Our study identifies CYGB and other genes as stress genes potentially regulated by LEDGF/p75 in PCa cells, and provides a rationale for investigating their role in PCa and in promoting resistance to chemotherapy- and oxidative stress-induced cell death. labels: #Globins'
b'To evaluate a potential insult in the cerebellum of pups exposed to maternal epileptic seizures during intrauterine life, female rats were subjected to pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Pups from different litters were sacrificed at 1, 3, 7 and 14 post-natal days (PN) and neuroglobin (Ngb) and gliosis were analyzed in the cerebellum by Western blotting (WB) and RT-PCR. (14)C-l-leucine-[(14)C-Leu] incorporation was used to analyze protein synthesis at PN1. Nitric Oxide (NO) and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels were also measured. Pups from naive mothers were used as controls. The mRNA level of Ngb was increased in experimental animals at PN1 ((**)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001) and PN3 ((**)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001), at PN7 ((***)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.0001) and at PN14 ((**)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001) compared to the respective controls. The protein level of Ngb increased significantly in the experimental pups at PN1 ((*)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) and at PN3 ((**)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001), when compared to the control pups at PN1 and PN3. At PN7 and PN14 no difference was found. The mRNA level of GFAP increased significantly about two times at PN3 ((*)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) and PN7 ((*)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) in the experimental pups when compared to the respective controls, but was unchanged in the other studied ages. Data showed that experimental pups at PN1 exhibited reduced (about 2 times, (*)p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05) total protein synthesis in the cerebellum when compared to control. No differences were found in the NO and TBARS levels. Our data support the hypothesis that an up-regulation of Ngb could be a compensatory mechanism in response to the hypoxic-ischemic insults caused by seizures in pups during intrauterine life. labels: #Globins'
b"To investigate the mechanisms of the therapeutic action and drug resistance to the nitrogen mustard melphalan, melphalan-induced DNA damage repair and chromatin structure were examined along the p53, N-ras and d-globin gene loci in cells carrying different repair activities. In nucleotide excision repair-deficient XP-A cells, similar levels of adducts were found in all fragments examined, indicating uniform distribution of DNA damage. In both, repair-proficient CS-B and XP-C cells, faster repair was observed in regions inside the transcribed N-ras and p53 genes, compared to regions on both sides outside of the genes, while no such difference was observed for the inactive d-globin gene. Moreover, very fast adduct repair on the transcribed strand of the active genes was seen immediately downstream of the transcription start site, together with a steeply decreasing gradient of repair efficiency along the gene towards the 3'-end. In all cells analyzed, the above variation in DNA repair efficiency was paralleled exactly by the variation in the degree of local chromatin condensation, more relaxed chromatin being associated with faster repair. Similar results were obtained using peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy volunteers, suggesting that the existence of a repair gradient along transcribed genes may be a universal phenomenon. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that the repair of melphalan adducts in the transcribed strand of active genes is subject to a strong polarity effect arising from variations in the chromatin structure. labels: #Globins"
b"Thalassaemia is characterized by the reduced or absent production of globins in the haemoglobin molecule leading to imbalanced \xce\xb1-globin/non \xce\xb1-globin chains. HbE, the result of a G to A mutation in codon 26 of the HBB (\xce\xb2-globin) gene, activates a cryptic 5' splice site in codon 25 leading to a reduction of correctly spliced \xce\xb2(E) -globin (HBB:c.79G>A) mRNA and consequently \xce\xb2(+) -thalassaemia. A wide range of clinical severities in both\xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-thalassaemia syndromes, from nearly asymptomatic to transfusion-dependent, has been observed. The correlation between clinical heterogeneity in various genotypes of thalassaemia and the levels of globin gene expression and \xce\xb2(E) -globin pre-mRNA splicing were examined using multiplex quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and allele-specific RT-qPCR. The \xce\xb1-globin/non \xce\xb1-globin mRNA ratio was demonstrated to be a good indicator for disease severity among different thalassaemia disorders. However, the \xce\xb1-globin/non \xce\xb1-globin mRNA ratio ranged widely in \xce\xb2-thalassaemia/HbE patients, with no significant difference between mild and severe phenotypes. Interestingly, the correctly to aberrantly spliced \xce\xb2(E) -globin mRNA ratio in 30% of mild \xce\xb2-thalassaemia/HbE patients was higher than that of the severe patients. The splicing process of \xce\xb2(E) -globin pre-mRNA differs among \xce\xb2-thalassaemia/HbE patients and serves as one of the modifying factors for disease severity. labels: #Globins"
b'The N-terminal valine adduct (HETE-Val) in globin is believed to behave as a long-lived biomarker after exposure to sulfur mustard (HD). Development of a highly sensitive method for monitoring HETE-Val, particularly at low HD exposure levels or for retrospective detection, would be a significant achievement. In this study, by improving the sample preparation method, a sensitive NCI-GC/MS method was established for the analysis of HETE-Val in globin after HD exposure. To optimize and investigate the sample preparation method, all the relevant HETE-Val chemicals were synthesized, purified, and characterized. By carrying out optimized solid phase extraction (SPE) cleanup followed by modified Edman degradation results in a low detection level and clean baseline. The minimum detectable exposure level of human blood (in vitro) to HD is 20 nmol/L (S/N>3). The interday and intraday precisions of the proposed method were found to be acceptable with less than a 15% relative standard deviation (RSD). A nearly linear dose-effect relationship was observed between HETE-Val and a HD exposure concentration range of 0.1-120 \xce\xbcmol/L. The percentage of HD that reacted with N-terminal valine in globin obtained from human blood (in vitro) was quantified using the proposed method. labels: #Globins'
b"We reported previously that Notch signaling is activated in human arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) and that intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in humans is accompanied by increased neurogenesis. The former phenomenon may be involved in AVM pathogenesis and the latter in the brain's response to ICH-induced injury. Here we describe increased expression of the hypoxia-inducible neuroprotective protein, neuroglobin (Ngb), in neurons surrounding unruptured AVMs and in the perihematomal region adjacent to ICH. In these disorders, as in other clinical settings, such as ischemic stroke, AVM- and ICH-induced overexpression of Ngb may be stimulated by ischemic hypoxia and may help to constrain brain injury. labels: #Globins"
b"The function of neuroglobin, a member of the vertebrate globin family, is still unknown. In human neuroglobin (NGB), the formation of a disulfide bridge between the CysCD7 and CysD5 is known to affect the heme environment and its ligand-binding kinetics. Here, we show by means of EPR that the PheB10 residue plays a key role in transmitting the structural information from the disulfide bridge to the heme-pocket region. While formation of a disulfide bridge in ferric wild-type NGB leads to a considerable change of its EPR parameters, only minor changes are observed in the case of ferric PheB10Leu NGB. Furthermore, wild-type NGB is found to be much more stable in the presence of H(2)O(2) than its PheB10Leu or its HisE7Leu mutants. While tyrosyl radicals are induced in HisE7Leu NGB by the addition of H(2)O(2), this is not the case for wild-type and PheB10Leu NGB. The results will be discussed in terms of the protein's putative functions. labels: #Globins"
b'If rates of postduplication gene retention are positively correlated with levels of functional constraint, then gene duplicates that have been retained in a restricted number of taxonomic lineages would be expected to exhibit relatively low levels of sequence conservation. Paradoxical patterns are presented by gene duplicates that have been retained in a small number of taxa but which are nonetheless subject to strong purifying selection relative to paralogous members of the same multigene family. This pattern suggests that such genes may have been co-opted for novel, lineage-specific functions. One possible example involves the enigmatic globin-E gene (GbE), which appears to be exclusively restricted to birds. Available data indicate that this gene is expressed exclusively in the avian eye, but its physiological function remains a mystery. In contrast to the highly restricted phyletic distribution of GbE, the overwhelming majority of jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) possess copies of the related cytoglobin (Cygb) and myoglobin (Mb) genes. The purpose of the present study was 1) to assess the phyletic distribution of the Cygb, Mb, and GbE genes among vertebrates, 2) to elucidate the duplicative origins and evolutionary histories of these three genes, and 3) to evaluate the relative levels of functional constraint of these genes based on comparative sequence analysis. To accomplish these objectives, we conducted a combined phylogenetic and comparative genomic analysis involving taxa that represent each of the major lineages of gnathostome vertebrates. Results of synteny comparisons and phylogenetic topology tests revealed that GbE is clearly not the product of a recent, bird-specific duplication event. Instead, GbE originated via duplication of a proto-Mb gene in the stem lineage of gnathostomes. Unlike the Mb gene, which has been retained in all major gnathostome lineages other than amphibians, the GbE gene has been retained only in the lineage leading to modern birds and has been independently lost in at least four major lineages: teleost fish, amphibians, mammals, and nonavian reptiles. Despite the restricted phyletic distribution of this gene, our results indicate that GbE is one of the most highly conserved globins in the avian genome. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a recently discovered vertebrate globin with molecular characteristics that are similar to myoglobin. To study the biological function of Cygb in vivo, we generated Cygb knockout mice and investigated their susceptibility to N,N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced tumorigenesis. Four-week-old male mice were administered DEN in drinking water at a dose of 25 ppm for 25 weeks or 0.05 ppm for 36 weeks. Cygb deficiency promoted the DEN-induced development of liver and lung tumors. All Cygb(+/-) and Cygb(-/-) mice treated with 25-ppm DEN exhibited liver tumors, compared with 44.4% of their wild-type counterparts. Lung tumors were present only in Cygb-deficient mice. More than 40% of Cygb(-/-) mice developed liver and lung tumors at the nontoxic dose of DEN (0.05 ppm), which did not induce tumors in wild-type mice. Cygb loss was associated with increased cancer cell proliferation, elevated extracellular signal-regulated kinase and Akt activation, overexpression of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, Tnf\xce\xb1, and Tgf\xce\xb23 mRNAs, and hepatic collagen accumulation. Cygb-deficient mice also exhibited increased nitrotyrosine formation and dysregulated expression of cancer-related genes (cyclin D2, p53, Pak1, Src, Cdkn2a, and Cebpa). These results suggest that Cygb deficiency induces susceptibility to cancer development in the liver and lungs of mice exposed to DEN. Thus, globins such as Cygb will shed new light on the biological features of organ carcinogenesis. labels: #Globins'
b'Caenorhabditis elegans globin GLB-26 (expressed from gene T22C1.2) has been studied in comparison with human neuroglobin (Ngb) and cytoglobin (Cygb) for its electron transfer properties. GLB-26 exhibits no reversible binding for O(2) and a relatively low CO affinity compared to myoglobin-like globins. These differences arise from its mechanism of gaseous ligand binding since the heme iron of GLB-26 is strongly hexacoordinated in the absence of external ligands; the replacement of this internal ligand, probably the E7 distal histidine, is required before binding of CO or O(2) as for Ngb and Cygb. Interestingly the ferrous bis-histidyl GLB-26 and Ngb, another strongly hexacoordinated globin, can transfer an electron to cytochrome c (Cyt-c) at a high bimolecular rate, comparable to those of inter-protein electron transfer in mitochondria. In addition, GLB-26 displays an unexpectedly rapid oxidation of the ferrous His-Fe-His complex without O(2) actually binding to the iron atom, since the heme is oxidized by O(2) faster than the time for distal histidine dissociation. These efficient mechanisms for electron transfer could indicate a family of hexacoordinated globin which are functionally different from that of pentacoordinated globins. labels: #Globins'
b'In order to update the molecular basis of \xce\xb2-thalassemia and describe hematological features among different mutations and the concurrent of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-thalassemias, 849 unrelated \xce\xb2-thalassemia heterozygotes recruited in northeast Thailand during a prevention and control program were studied. \xce\xb2- and \xce\xb1-thalassemia mutations were investigated using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based technologies and hematological parameters were recorded using standard methods. Seventeen different mutations including both \xce\xb2(0)- and \xce\xb2(+) -thalassemias were identified. Eight of these 17 \xce\xb2-thalassemia alleles accounted for 97.4%, others were found at lower frequencies (<1.0%). Of the 849 cases, 626 were investigated for common \xce\xb1-thalassemia mutations and 155 (24.8%) were found to be co-inherited with different forms of \xce\xb1-thalassemia. Comparison of the hematological parameters among different \xce\xb2-thalassemia mutations revealed an increasing trend of MCV and MCH in a group of heterozygous states for the 3.4kb deletion and the A-G substitution at nucleotide (NT) -28. Hb A(2) and Hb F levels in individuals with the 3.4kb deletion were significantly higher than those with other mutations. Interaction of each \xce\xb2-thalassemia mutation with \xce\xb1-thalassemia did not affect the diagnostic ranges of Hb A(2) and Hb F, though the significantly increased MCV and MCH was noted. These findings underline the heterogeneity of \xce\xb2-thalassemia and the importance of hematological and molecular analyses of both \xce\xb1-and \xce\xb2-thalassemias in the diagnosis and genetic counseling of the couples at-risk of having babies with severe thalassemia diseases in the region. labels: #Globins'
b"Globins are respiratory proteins involved in oxygen metabolism, which is a critical factor in tumor growth and progression. The status of neuroglobin and myoglobin is largely unknown in human malignancies, including lung cancer. The aim of this study was to explore mRNA expression profiles, potential regulatory mechanisms and clinicopathological associations of neuroglobin and myoglobin in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We screened 208 surgically resected NSCLC specimens and a panel of lung normal and cancer cell lines. The mRNA expression of neuroglobin, myoglobin and hypoxia markers (HIF1\xce\xb1 and VEGFa) was measured with qRTPCR, while neuroglobin promoter methylation was assessed with Pyrosequencing. Neuroglobin and myoglobin were upregulated in the tumor samples compared to normal tissue (p=1.3\xc3\x9710(-22) and p=1.9\xc3\x9710(-9), respectively). Neuroglobin was more frequently overexpressed in squamous cell carcinomas (SqCCL) than adenocarcinomas. Overexpression of myoglobin was more profound in adenocarcinomas, which correlated with poor survival (p=0.013). Neuroglobin promoter was hypermethylated in 30.8% of NSCLC cases, which correlated with neuroglobin mRNA downregulation. The epigenetic regulation of neuroglobin was confirmed by treating lung cell lines with 5'azadeoxycytidine and/or trichostatin A. Expression of both genes correlated with the expression of HIF1\xce\xb1 (neuroglobin: p=3.8\xc3\x9710(-5), myoglobin: p=1.1\xc3\x9710(-11)). Myoglobin expression was also associated to that of VEGFa (p=2.1\xc3\x9710(-7)). Hypoxia-dependent upregulation of both globins was validated in vitro. In summary, neuroglobin and myoglobin overexpression in NSCLC is associated with histological subtype, hypoxia and, in case of neuroglobin - epigenetic regulation. Myoglobin expression may have potential significance in the prognostication of lung adenocarcinomas. labels: #Globins"
b'Cytoglobin is a recently identified vertebrate globin whose functions include scavenging reactive oxygen and nitrosative species. In tumor cells, CYGB may function as a tumor suppressor gene. Here we show that knockdown of cytoglobin expression can sensitize human glioma cells to oxidative stress induced by chemical inhibitors of the electron transport chain and as well can increase cellular radiosensitivity. When treated with antimycin A, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, cytoglobin-deficient cells showed significantly higher H\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x82 levels, whereas H\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x82 levels were significantly reduced in cytoglobin-overexpressing cells. In addition, cytoglobin knockdown significantly decreased the doubling time of glioma cell lines, consistent with a putative tumor suppressor function. These finding suggest that modulating cytoglobin levels may be a promising treatment strategy for sensitizing human glioma cells to oxidative stress that is induced by ionizing radiation, certain chemotherapies and ischemia-reperfusion. labels: #Globins'
b'The visual process in the vertebrate eye requires high amounts of metabolic energy and thus oxygen. Oxygen supply of the avian retina is a challenging task because birds have large eyes, thick retinae, and high metabolic rates but neither deep retinal nor superficial capillaries. Respiratory proteins such as myoglobin may enhance oxygen supply to certain tissues, and thus the mammalian retina harbors high amounts of neuroglobin. Globin E (GbE) was recently identified as an eye-specific globin of chicken (Gallus gallus). Orthologous GbE genes were found in zebra finch and turkey genomes but appear to be absent in non-avian vertebrate classes. Analyses of globin phylogeny and gene synteny showed an ancient origin of GbE but did not help to assign it to any specific globin type. We show that the photoreceptor cells of the chicken retina have a high level of GbE protein, which accumulates to \xe2\x88\xbc10 \xce\xbcM in the total eye. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR revealed an \xe2\x88\xbc50,000-fold higher level of GbE mRNA in the eye than in the brain. Spectroscopic analysis and ligand binding kinetics of recombinant chicken GbE reveal a penta-coordinated globin with an oxygen affinity of P(50) = 5.8 torrs at 25 \xc2\xb0C and 15 torrs at 41 \xc2\xb0C. Together these data suggest that GbE helps to sustain oxygen supply to the avian retina. labels: #Globins'
b'Respiratory proteins are responsible for transport and storage of oxygen. It is well established that specific requirements for oxygen during vertebrate ontogeny cause switches of hemoglobin chain expression. Here, we characterize the developmental profiles of zebrafish (Danio rerio) globins by means of quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR. The total mRNA levels of the hemoglobin chains, including a newly identified embryonic \xce\xb1-chain, as well as myoglobin, neuroglobin, cytoglobin 1 and 2, and globin X were estimated. mRNAs of all globins were detectable in unfertilized eggs, suggesting maternal storage. Embryonic \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-hemoglobin mRNA peaked at hatching and the switch to adult hemoglobin expression occurred 16\xc2\xa0dpf. Enhanced myoglobin mRNA levels were detected ~31\xc2\xa0h post-fertilization (hpf), coinciding with the heart and the muscle development, while neuroglobin mRNA expression pattern correlates with the formation of the nervous system. Amounts of myoglobin and neuroglobin mRNA were similar within an order of magnitude throughout the ontogeny, tentatively supporting a respiratory role of neuroglobin. Cytoglobin 2 mRNA levels increased gradually, whereas cytoglobin 1 mRNA levels increased strongly after ~31\xc2\xa0hpf, which is in agreement with a function in cell proliferation. Globin X mRNA level was highest in oocytes, but low in later stages. Together, these data suggest a specific role for each globin, which are also associated with certain events in fish development. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: Hereditary spherocytosis (HS), a common inherited hemolytic anemia characterized by decreased deformability, reduced surface to volume ratio, and increased osmotic fragility of the spheroidal erythrocytes, is associated with several mutations of \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-spectrin, ankyrin, band 3, band 4.2. HS manifests itself with high degrees of clinical heterogeneity and the molecular events leading to premature hemolysis of the spherocytes are unclear. We have employed proteomic techniques to identify differentially regulated proteins in the membrane and hemoglobin-depleted cytosol of HS erythrocytes.METHODS: We have employed 2-D gel electrophoresis and tandem matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight/time of flight mass spectrometry to investigate the differential proteome profiling of membrane and hemoglobin-depleted cytosol of erythrocytes isolated from the peripheral blood samples of HS patients and normal volunteers.RESULTS: Our study showed that redox regulators are up-regulated; while a co-chaperone and a nucleotide kinase are down-regulated in HS erythrocyte cytosol. We observed elevated levels of membrane-associated globin chains and low-molecular weight fragments of several major cytoskeletal proteins.CONCLUSION: The observed changes in the erythrocyte proteomes indicate altered redox regulation, nucleotide metabolism, protein aggregation and/or degradation, cytoskeletal disorganization, and severe oxidative stress in HS. Taken together, this study could enlighten upon disease progression and pathophysiology of HS. labels: #Globins'
b'The internal cavity matrix of globins plays a key role in their biological function. Previous studies have already highlighted the plasticity of this inner network, which can fluctuate with the proteins breathing motion, and the importance of a few key residues for the regulation of ligand diffusion within the protein. In this Article, we combine all-atom molecular dynamics and coarse-grain Brownian dynamics to establish a complete mechanical landscape for six different globins chain (myoglobin, neuroglobin, cytoglobin, truncated hemoglobin, and chains \xce\xb1 and \xce\xb2 of hemoglobin). We show that the rigidity profiles of these proteins can fluctuate along time, and how a limited set of residues present specific mechanical properties that are related to their position at the frontier between internal cavities. Eventually, we postulate the existence of conserved positions within the globin fold, which form a mechanical nucleus located at the center of the cavity network, and whose constituent residues are essential for controlling ligand migration in globins. labels: #Globins'
b'Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), valine, isoleucine, and leucine, are widely used among athletes as dietary integrators. Although the occurrence of untoward effects of BCCA supplementation, with particular regard to neurological disturbances, cannot be excluded, no specific studies have been performed so far. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of a diet enriched in BCAAs on the expression of oxidative stress pathway genes in the brain of C57Bl/6J mice. Animals were fed a standard or a BCAA diet for 95 days starting from postnatal day 21 until sacrifice. BCAA treatment, at doses comparable to human usage, significantly down-regulated the expression of some antioxidant genes, while up-regulating the expression of some oxygen transporters. In conclusion, it appears that BCAAs administered by diet could alter some specific oxidative stress pathways in the brain. Caution should thus be exercised in the widespread use of BCAAs as dietary integrators in sports practice. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cgb), the fourth member of the vertebrate heme globin family, is widely expressed in mammalian tissues, and reversibly binds to CO, O(2) and other small ligands. The diverse functions of Cgb may include ligand transport, redox reactions and enzymatic catalysis. Recent studies indicate that Cgb is a potential gene medicine for fibrosis and cancer therapy. In the present work, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed to investigate the functionally related structural properties and dynamic characteristics in carboxy and deoxy human Cgb. The simulation results showed that the loop regions and internal cavities were significantly affected through the binding of an exogenous ligand. The AB, GH and EF loops were found to undergo significant rearrangement and this led to distinct cavity adjustments in Xe2, Xe4 and the distal pocket. In addition, solvent accessibility and torsion angle analyses revealed an interactive distal network comprised of His(81)(E7), Leu(46)(B10) and Arg(84)(E10). The MD study of carboxy and deoxy human Cgb revealed that CO-ligated Cgb modulates the protein conformation primarily by loop and cavity rearrangements rather than the heme sliding mechanism found in neuroglobin (Ngb). The significant differences between Cgb and Ngb in the loop and cavity properties are presumably linked to their various biological functions. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently identified member of hemoglobin family, distributed mainly in central and peripheral nervous systems. Recent studies suggest that Ngb can protect neural cells from \xce\xb2-amyloid-induced toxicity in Alzheimer disease (AD). Hyperphosphorylation of tau is another characterized pathological hallmark in the AD brains; however, it is not reported whether Ngb also affects tau phosphorylation. In this study, we found that the level of Ngb was significantly reduced in Tg2576 mice (a recognized mouse model of AD) and TgMAPt mice, and the level of Ngb was negatively correlated with tau phosphorylation. Over-expression of Ngb attenuates tau hyperphosphorylation at multiple AD-related sites induced by up-regulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3\xce\xb2 (GSK-3\xce\xb2), a crucial tau kinase. While Ngb activates Akt and thus inhibits GSK-3\xce\xb2, simultaneously inhibition of Akt abolishes the effects of Ngb on GSK-3\xce\xb2 inhibition and tau hyperphosphorylation. Our data indicate that Ngb may attenuate tau hyperphosphorylation through activating Akt signaling pathway, implying a therapeutic target for AD. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin/stellate cell activation-associated protein (Cygb/STAP), a hemoprotein, functions as part of an O2 reservoir with protective effects against oxidative stress in hepatic stellate cells. Heterogeneous expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)+ and/or \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1SMA)+ has been noted in subepithelial myofibroblasts and interstitial cells of the same lineage in the colorectum. We have demonstrated that early genomic instability of both epithelial and stromal cells in ulcerative colitis (UC) is important for colorectal tumorigenesis, as well as for mucosal remodeling. To further clarify possible roles of stromal cells in mucosal remodeling and tumor development in UC, we here focused on Cygb expression of subepithelial myofibroblasts and interstitial cells, as well as \xce\xb1SMA and HSP47. Noncancerous mucosa of resected rectae from UC patients with or without colorectal neoplasia (14 and 20 cases, respectively) and of sporadic rectal cancer cases (16) was analyzed immunohistochemically, as well as by immuno-fluorescence and electron microscopy. The results, heterogeneous phenotypes of Cygb+, \xce\xb1SMA+ and HSP47+ subepithelial myofibroblasts and interstitial cells, corresponding to rectal stellate cells, were demonstrated. A decrease of Cygb+ subepithelial myofibroblasts and an increase of \xce\xb1SMA+ interstitial cells were significant in UC, as compared to normal rectal mucosa. Furthermore, a decrease of Cygb+ subepithelial myofibroblasts, correlating with \xce\xb1SMA+ and HSP47+ cells, was significant in long-standing UC with neoplasia. In conclusion, there are heterogeneous phenotypes of Cygb+, \xce\xb1SMA+ and HSP47+ subepithelial myofibroblasts and interstitial cells in the rectal mucosa. Mucosal remodeling with alterations of Cygb+ and/or \xce\xb1SMA+/HSP47+ stromal cells might have some relation to UC-associated tumorigenesis. labels: #Globins'
b'The progress of immunoisolation as a treatment for diabetes has been hampered by the diminished long term viability of islets within the immunoisolation device. Chronic hypoxia is greatly responsible for islet cell death within an immunoisolation device and remains an obstacle to the success of this form of islet transplantation. In order to address this problem, isolated rat islets were transfected with a plasmid encoding cytoglobin, an intracellular oxygen binding protein. Untreated or transfected islets were placed in polyacrylonitrile-polyvinychloride hollow fiber and implanted beneath the hepatic capsule in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Fasting blood glucose was used as an indicator of islet survival and function. Rats receiving fibers containing transfected islets remained normoglycemic through the 60 day trial. Untreated islets failed within two weeks after implantation resulting in elevated blood glucose in the recipient. The fibers were recovered and tested for insulin content. Cytoglobin promoted islet cell survival and insulin synthesis and secretion. The induction of cytoglobin in islets may reduce cell loss from chronic hypoxia and may be a useful method to improve the feasibility of immunoisolation as an islet transplantation modality. labels: #Globins'
b'Extensive in silico search of the genome of Caenorhabditis elegans revealed the presence of 33 genes coding for globins that are all transcribed. These globins are very diverse in gene and protein structure and are localized in a variety of cells, mostly neurons. The large number of C. elegans globin genes is assumed to be the result of multiple evolutionary duplication and radiation events. Processes of subfunctionalization and diversification probably led to their cell-specific expression patterns and fixation into the genome. To date, four globins (GLB-1, GLB-5, GLB-6, and GLB-26) have been partially characterized physicochemically, and the crystallographic structure of two of them (GLB-1 and GLB-6) was solved. In this article, a three-dimensional model was designed for the other two globins (GLB-5 and GLB-26), and overlays of the globins were constructed to highlight the structural diversity among them. It is clear that although they all share the globin fold, small variations in the three-dimensional structure have major implications on their ligand-binding properties and possibly their function. We also review here all the information available so far on the globin family of C. elegans and suggest potential functions. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a heme protein, highly conserved along evolution, predominantly found in the nervous system. It is upregulated by hypoxia and ischemia and may have a neuroprotective role under hypoxic stress. Although many other roles have been proposed, the physiological function is still unclear. Antarctic icefishes lack hemoglobin and some species also lack myoglobin, but all have Ngb and thus may help the elucidation of Ngb function. We present the first theoretically derived structure of fish Ngb and describe its behavior using molecular dynamics simulations. Specifically, we sequenced and analyzed Ngbs from a colorless-blooded Antarctic icefish species Chaenocephalus aceratus and a related red-blooded species (Dissostichus mawsoni). Both fish Ngbs are 6-coordinated but have some peculiarities that differentiate them from mammalian counterparts: they have extensions in the N and C termini that can interact with the EF loop, and a gap in the alignment that changes the CD-region structure/dynamics that has been found to play a key role in human neuroglobin. Our results suggest that a single mutation between both fish Ngbs is responsible for significant difference in the behavior of the proteins. The functional role of these characteristics is discussed. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb), a recently found oxygen-binding protein belonging to the vertebrate globin family, is mainly expressed in neurons of brains and eyes. Current studies have revealed diverse potential functions of Ngb and it was found to be able to reduce the severity of stroke and Alzheimer's disease, implying its importance in brains. However, the mechanism of Ngb regulation of transcription has not been elucidated yet. In this study, we analyzed the 5'-flanking region of human neuroglobin gene (NGB) and identified a transcription start site (TSS) located at -306bp relative to the translation start site ATG. We characterized the proximal promoter of NGB and found two GC-boxes located at -16 and +30bp relative to the TSS which are bound by transcription factor Sp1 and Sp3. Mutation of either GC-box led to a significant reduction in NGB promoter activity, while overexpression of Sp1 and Sp3 resulted in activation of the promoter. However, two putative NRSE sites (-359 and -127bp relative to the TSS) apparently showed no influence on NGB tissue-specific expression. Treatment of two non-neuronal cell lines HeLa and BEAS-2B with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine remarkably induced NGB expression, suggesting a potential role of DNA methylation in regulating NGB tissue-specific expression. labels: #Globins"
b'The purpose of this study was to evaluate the neuroprotective effects of intranasally delivered recombinant human neuronal erythropoietin (Neuro-EPO) on brain injury induced by unilateral permanent ischemia in the Mongolian gerbil. Expression of EPO receptor (EPOR) and neuroglobin (Ngb) over 5 weeks after intranasal treatment with Neuro-EPO was determined using immunohistochemistry. Mortality of Neuro-EPO-treated gerbils decreased after surgery, and the sensory and motor function was significantly improved. Histopathological mapping showed that Neuro-EPO significantly reduced delayed neuronal death in the brain. Expression of Ngb was upregulated in the cerebral cortex at most time points (expect for 10 min and 48 hr) and in the hippocampus at 10 min and from 48 hr to 5 weeks, whereas EPOR was almost downregulated or unchanged in the brain (expect for 48 hr). The 10 min and 48 hr seemed to be two time points for the brain to switch the expression of both Ngb and EPOR to early and late recovery phase, respectively. In addition, there were two phases, 10 min to 1 hr and 24 hr to 72 hr, respectively, closing to the "golden hour" of about 60 min and the "silver day" of 1 to 3 days, for the brain to recover from stroke onset with intranasal Neuro-EPO treatment. Therefore, the results suggest that the intranasal administration of Neuro-EPO is effective in the treatment of acute brain ischemia. The different expression patterns of Ngb and EPOR is probably due to ischemic tolerance in the cerebral cortex and ischemic sensitivity in the hippocampus. labels: #Globins'
b'Although discovered in 2000, neuroglobin (Ngb) functions are still uncertain. A contribution to the role played by Ngb in neurons could certainly derive from the identification of Ngb endogenous modulators. Here, we evaluate the possibility that Ngb could be regulated by 17\xce\xb2-estradiol (E\xe2\x82\x82) signaling in both SK-N-BE human neuroblastoma cell line and mouse hippocampal neurons. 1 nM E\xe2\x82\x82 rapidly induced a 300% increase in Ngb levels in both models. The E\xe2\x82\x82 effect was specific, being not induced by testosterone or dihydrotestosterone. The E\xe2\x82\x82-induced Ngb increase requires estrogen receptor (ER) \xce\xb2, but not ER\xce\xb1, as evaluated by the mimetic effect of ER\xce\xb2-specific agonist DPN and by the blockage of E\xe2\x82\x82 effect in ER\xce\xb2-silenced SK-N-BE cells. Furthermore, both rapid (15 min) ER\xce\xb2-dependent activation of p38/MAPK and transcriptional ER\xce\xb2 activity were required for the estrogenic regulation of Ngb. Finally, E\xe2\x82\x82 exerted a protective effect against H\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x82-induced neuroblastoma cell death which was completely prevented in Ngb-silenced cells. Overall, these data suggest that Ngb is part of the E\xe2\x82\x82 signaling mechanism that is activated to exert protective effects against H\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x82-induced neurotoxicity. labels: #Globins'
b'AIMS: We investigated the effect of globin digest (GD) on the liver injury and hepatic gene expression profile in galactosamine (GalN)-induced liver injury.MAIN METHODS: The effect of GD on the liver injury was examined by measuring the activities of serum transferases and hepatic antioxidant enzymes, histopathological analysis, gene expression profile, and proteins of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR\xce\xb1) and met proto-oncogene (c-Met) in SD rats at 24 h after GalN administration. The effect of GD on the expression of PPAR\xce\xb1 and its target gene in AML-12 mouse hepatocytes was also examined.KEY FINDINGS: GD suppressed the elevated activities of serum transferases in GalN-induced liver injury in SD rats. The thiobarbituric acid reactive substance content in GalN-injured liver was a decreasing tendency by GD. GD suppressed the increased oxidized glutathione content, and increased the decreased protein, reduced glutathione contents, and catalase activity in GalN-injured liver. GD may improve the antioxidant defense system and protein synthesis in GalN-injured liver. GD suppressed the elevated expression of the genes related to the inflammation, and decreased the histopathological grade value of inflammatory cell infiltration in GalN-injured liver. GD increased the expression of PPAR\xce\xb1 protein in GalN-injured liver, and also increased the expression of PPAR\xce\xb1 and its target gene in AML-12 hepatocytes. The total and phosphorylated c-Met proteins in GalN-injured liver were the increasing tendencies by GD.SIGNIFICANCE: These findings indicate that GD has the hepatoprotective effect on GalN-induced liver injury in SD rats. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a globular protein that reversibly binds small ligands at the six coordination position of the heme. With respect to other globins similar to myoglobin, Ngb displays some peculiarities as the topological reorganization of the internal cavities coupled to the sliding of the heme, or the binding of the endogenous distal histidine to the heme in the absence of an exogenous ligand. In this Article, by using multiple (independent) molecular dynamics trajectories (about 500 ns in total), the migration pathways of photolized carbon monoxide (CO) within solvated Ngb were analyzed, and a quantitative description of CO migration and corresponding kinetics was obtained. MD results, combined with quantum mechanical calculations on the CO-heme binding-unbinding reaction step in Ngb, allowed construction of a quantitative model representing the relevant steps of CO migration and rebinding. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered vertebrate globin that is expressed in the brain and can reversibly bind oxygen. Mammalian Ngb is involved in neuroprotection during oxidative stress that occurs, for example, during ischemia and reperfusion. Recently, we found that zebrafish, but not human, Ngb can translocate into cells. Moreover, we demonstrated that a chimeric ZHHH Ngb protein, in which the module M1 of human Ngb is replaced by the corresponding region of zebrafish Ngb, can penetrate cell membranes and protect cells against oxidative stress-induced cell death, suggesting that module M1 of zebrafish Ngb is important for protein transduction. Furthermore, we recently showed that Lys7, Lys9, Lys21, and Lys23 in module M1 of zebrafish Ngb are crucial for protein transduction activity. In the present study, we have investigated whether module M1 of zebrafish Ngb can be used as a building block to create novel cell-membrane-penetrating folded proteins. First, we engineered a chimeric myoglobin (Mb), in which module M1 of zebrafish Ngb was fused to the N-terminus of full-length human Mb, and investigated its functional and structural properties. Our results showed that this chimeric Mb protein is stable and forms almost the same heme environment and \xce\xb1-helical structure as human wild-type Mb. In addition, we demonstrated that chimeric Mb has a cell-membrane-penetrating activity similar to zebrafish Ngb. Moreover, we found that glycosaminoglycan is crucial for the cell-membrane-penetrating activity of chimeric Mb as well as that of zebrafish Ngb. These results enable us to conclude that such module substitutions will facilitate the design and production of novel functional proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin is a highly conserved hemoprotein of uncertain physiological function that evolved from a common ancestor to hemoglobin and myoglobin. It possesses a six-coordinate heme geometry with proximal and distal histidines directly bound to the heme iron, although coordination of the sixth ligand is reversible. We show that deoxygenated human neuroglobin reacts with nitrite to form nitric oxide (NO). This reaction is regulated by redox-sensitive surface thiols, cysteine 55 and 46, which regulate the fraction of the five-coordinated heme, nitrite binding, and NO formation. Replacement of the distal histidine by leucine or glutamine leads to a stable five-coordinated geometry; these neuroglobin mutants reduce nitrite to NO \xe2\x88\xbc2000 times faster than the wild type, whereas mutation of either Cys-55 or Cys-46 to alanine stabilizes the six-coordinate structure and slows the reaction. Using lentivirus expression systems, we show that the nitrite reductase activity of neuroglobin inhibits cellular respiration via NO binding to cytochrome c oxidase and confirm that the six-to-five-coordinate status of neuroglobin regulates intracellular hypoxic NO-signaling pathways. These studies suggest that neuroglobin may function as a physiological oxidative stress sensor and a post-translationally redox-regulated nitrite reductase that generates NO under six-to-five-coordinate heme pocket control. We hypothesize that the six-coordinate heme globin superfamily may subserve a function as primordial hypoxic and redox-regulated NO-signaling proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin and cellular prion protein (PrP(C) ) are expressed in the nervous system and co-localized in the retinal ganglion cell layer. Both proteins do not have an unambiguously assigned function, and it was recently reported that PrP(C) aggregates rapidly in the presence of neuroglobin, whereas it does not aggregate in the presence of myoglobin, another globin with different tissue specificity. Electrostatic complementarity between the unstructured PrP(C) N-terminus and neuroglobin has been proposed to mediate this specific interaction. To verifythis hypothesis experimentally, we have used a combined approach of automated docking and molecular dynamics (MD) studies carried out on short stretches of prion protein (PrP) N-terminus to identify the minimal electrostatically interacting aminoacidic sequences with neuroglobin. Subsequently, we have performed the synthesis of these peptides by solid phase methods, and we tested their interaction with neuroglobin by surface plasmon resonance (SPR). Preliminary results confirm unequivocally the specific interaction between synthetic PrP peptides and neuroglobin suggesting a crucial role of PrP(C) positively charged regions in thisprotein-protein association. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cgb) is a vertebrate heme-containing globin-protein expressed in a broad range of mammalian tissues. Unlike myoglobin, Cgb displays a hexa-coordinated (bis-hystidyl) heme iron atom, having the heme distal His81(E7) residue as the endogenous sixth ligand. In the present study, we crystallized human Cgb in the presence of a reductant Na\xe2\x82\x82S\xe2\x82\x82O\xe2\x82\x84 under a carbon monoxide (CO) atmosphere, and determined the crystal structure at 2.6 A resolution. The CO ligand occupies the sixth axial position of the heme ferrous iron. Eventually, the imidazole group of His81(E7) is expelled from the sixth position and swings out of the distal heme pocket. The flipping motion of the His81 imidazole group accompanies structural readjustments of some residues (Gln62, Phe63, Gln72, and Ser75) in both the CD-corner and D-helix regions of Cgb. On the other hand, no significant structural changes were observed in other Cgb regions, for example, on the proximal side. These structural alterations that occurred as a result of exogenous ligand (CO) binding are clearly different from those observed in other vertebrate hexa-coordinated globins (mouse neuroglobin, Drosophila melanogaster hemoglobin) and penta-coordinated sperm whale myoglobin. The present study provides the structural basis for further discussion of the unique ligand-binding properties of Cgb. labels: #Globins'
b'A new high oxygen affinity hemoglobin (Hb) variant, Hb Nebraska [\xce\xb286(F2)Ala\xe2\x86\x92Ile, GCC>ATC; HGVS: HBB: c.259G>A;260C>T] is reported. This variant was not identified by routine methods and was only suspected due to erythrocytosis and an abnormal p50 value. The variant was analyzed by DNA sequencing and mass spectrometry (MS). The \xce\xb2 chain variant is unusual in that it has two nucleotide substitutions occurring at the same codon. labels: #Globins'
b'We report the first heterozygous case of Hb A(2)-NYU (HBD:c.39T>A) in the Hellenic population. The proband, an adult female from the island of Crete, Greece, was identified during routine family screening. DEAE chromatography of the index case revealed a minor hemoglobin (Hb) fraction preceding the elution of the wild-type Hb A(2). DNA sequencing of the entire HBD gene coding regions indicated that the index case was heterozygous for the rare variant Hb A(2)-NYU. Family studies indicated that this Hb variant was inherited from the mother. This finding underlines the vast genetic heterogeneity of the HBD gene in the Hellenic population. labels: #Globins'
b"AIMS: \xe2\x80\x82 This study immunohistochemically examined the orbitofrontal cortex for three possible candidates in hypoxic/ischemic signaling: the cytokine transforming growth factor-\xce\xb2, the glucose transporter-1 and the neuron-specific oxygen-binding protein neuroglobin.METHODS: \xe2\x80\x82 Post-mortem tissue from 20 depressed and 20 non-depressed individuals was obtained and the expression of the three proteins was analyzed using image analysis software.RESULTS: \xe2\x80\x82 No significant changes were found in transforming growth factor-\xce\xb2 or neuroglobin in the orbitofrontal cortex between depressed and non-depressed individuals. There was, however, a trend towards a reduction in glucose transporter-1 in the depressed group.CONCLUSIONS: \xe2\x80\x82 This study does not clearly support the hypothesis that hypoxic/ischemic processes are behind the pathological deficits in the frontal-subcortical circuitry associated with depression and therefore does not provide evidence to support the 'vascular depression' hypothesis. labels: #Globins"
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is an intracellular, oxygen-binding neuronal protein with protective effects against ischemia and related pathological processes. To identify small molecules capable of inducing Ngb protein expression, which might have therapeutic benefit, we examined Ngb expression by Western blot in cultured HN33 (mouse hippocampal neuron x N18TG2 neuroblastoma) cells. In addition to deferoxamine, which was shown previously to enhance Ngb levels, Ngb expression was increased by the short-chain fatty acids cinnamic acid and valproic acid (\xe2\x89\xa5 100 \xce\xbcmol/l), but not by other short-chain fatty acids, histone deacetylase inhibitors, or anticonvulsants. Drugs that stimulate the expression of neuroprotective proteins like Ngb may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of stroke and other neurological disorders. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin (Cygb) is a novel member of the vertebrate globin superfamily. Although it is expressed in splanchnic fibroblasts of various organs, details of its function remain unknown. In the present study, kidney ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) increased the number of Cygb-positive cells per area and up-regulated Cygb mRNA and protein expression in kidney cortex tissues. Similarly, hypoxia up-regulated Cygb expression in cultured rat kidney fibroblasts. The biological function of Cygb in vivo was evaluated in Cygb-overexpressing transgenic rats. Renal dysfunction and histologic damage after renal I/R were ameliorated (mean [SE] serum urea nitrogen concentration after I/R injury, 260.6 [44.9]mg/dL in wild-type rats versus 101.0 [36.0] mg/dL in transgenic rats; P<0.05) in association with improvement of oxidative stress. Primary cultured fibroblasts from Cygb transgenic rat kidney were resistant to exogenous oxidant stimuli, and treatment of immortalized kidney fibroblasts with Cygb-small interfering RNA (siRNA) enhanced cellular oxidant stress and subsequently decreased cell viability (cell count ratio after exposure to hydrogen peroxide, 35.9% [1.6%] in control-siRNA-treated cells versus 25.5% [2.0%]in Cygb-siRNA-treated cells; P<0.05). Further, chemical or mutant disruption of heme in Cygb impaired its antioxidant properties, which suggests that the heme of Cygb per se possesses a radical scavenging function. These findings show for the first time, to our knowledge, that Cygb serves as a defensive mechanism against oxidative stress both in vitro and in vivo. labels: #Globins'
b'Nitric oxide (NO(\xc2\xb7)) is a toxin, but bacteria have evolved various strategies to detoxify this harmful radical to nitrate, the best known mechanism being the dioxygenase reaction of bacterial flavohaemoglobins. In addition, globins can form oxoferryl (Fe(IV)=O) species through the reaction of the ferric haem with hydrogen peroxide: these species can also detoxify NO(\xc2\xb7) to nitrite and nitrate. During infection, Campylobacter is exposed to both NO(\xc2\xb7) and hydrogen peroxide. A question therefore arises: does Campylobacter jejuni utilize its single domain globin (Cgb) to detoxify NO(\xc2\xb7) via the oxoferryl route, or via the more conventional dioxygenase or denitroxylase routes? The data herein demonstrate that the reaction between Cgb and hydrogen peroxide is much slower than for other globins, and subsequent reaction between the oxoferryl species and NO(\xc2\xb7) is unfavourable. Furthermore, NO(\xc2\xb7) may bind to Cgb in the oxyferrous, ferrous and ferric states. The ample opportunity for NO(\xc2\xb7) to interact with ferrous and ferric Cgb, and the unfavourable reaction of ferric Cgb with hydrogen peroxide, suggests that NO(\xc2\xb7) detoxification in C. jejuni proceeds via a dioxygenase or denitroxylase route requiring the haem iron to exist only in the Fe(II) or Fe(III) redox states. labels: #Globins'
b'Relating structure and spectroscopy is fundamental in characterizing the conformational dynamics and elucidating function at an atomistic level in condensed-phase environments. In particular, the combination of infrared spectroscopy and atomistic simulations has provided fundamental insight into structural assignments of spectroscopic bands. Infrared spectroscopy and Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations on carbonmonoxy myoglobin (MbCO) were able to partially identify three major CO infrared bands (A0, A1 and A3) which are related to different conformational substates in the active site of the protein. Recently, two similar CO bands were identified from experiments in human carbonmonoxy neuroglobin (NgbCO), named N0 and N3. Time-dependent frequency changes found in the N0 band and a large variation of relaxation times for these bands made the characterization of these substates considerably more difficult compared to MbCO. In this work we discuss the structure-spectroscopy relationship for three different His64 protonation states in human and murine NgbCO using MD simulations and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The present work assigns the N3 band to the His(epsilon)64 tautomer having its side chain in hydrogen bonding contact to CO. Frequencies of the corresponding His64H+ and His(delta)64 tautomers show characteristic contributions to the N0 band. labels: #Globins'
b'Cytoglobin is a recently discovered hexa-co-ordinate haemoglobin that does not appear to function as a classical oxygen-binding protein. Its function is unknown and studies on the effects of changes in its expression have not decisively determined its role within the cell. In the present paper, we report that the protein is transformed from hexa-co-ordinate to penta-co-ordinate on binding a lipid molecule. This transformation occurs with the ferric oxidation state of the protein, but not the ferrous state, indicating that this process only occurs under an oxidative environment and may thus be related to redox-linked cell signalling mechanisms. Oleate binds to the protein in a 1:1 stoichiometry and with high affinity (K(d)=0.7 \xce\xbcM); however, stopped-flow kinetic measurements yield a K(d) value of 110 \xce\xbcM. The discrepancy between these K(d) values may be rationalized by recognizing that cytoglobin is a disulfide-linked dimer and invoking co-operativity in oleate binding. The lipid-induced transformation of cytoglobin from hexa-co-ordinate to penta-co-ordinate does not occur with similar hexa-co-ordinate haemoglobins such as neuroglobin, and therefore appears to be a unique property of cytoglobin among the haemoglobin superfamily. The lipid-derived transformation may explain why cytoglobin has enhanced peroxidatic activity, converting lipids into various oxidized products, a property virtually absent from neuroglobin and much decreased in myoglobin. We propose that the binding of ferric cytoglobin to lipids and their subsequent transformation may be integral to the physiological function of cytoglobin, generating cell signalling lipid molecules under an oxidative environment. labels: #Globins'
b'AIM: To investigate the possible role of rate-limiting enzyme of heme metabolism and globin in the development of the low hemoglobin (Hb), red blood (cell) count (RBC) and hematocrit (Hct) after long-term exercise, and effect of nutrition supplement on sports anemia.METHODS: Male Wistar rats were randomly assigned to three groups (n = 10): control (C), exercise (P) and exercise + nutrition (G). Animals in the P and G groups started treadmill running at 30 m/min, 0% grade, 1 min/time. Running time was gradually increased with 2 min/time during initial 5 weeks and final 4 weeks. In addition, running frequency was 2 times/day except initial 2 weeks. At the end of eleventh week, gene expression of 5-aminolevulinate synthase (ALAS), ferrochelatase, alpha-globin and beta-globin in bone marrow were measured with RT-PCR. Mean-while heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) activity in liver was measured with immunohistochemical method.RESULTS: Eleven weeks of exercise induced a significant increase in HO-1 and a significant increase in gene expression of beta-globin (P<0.01, P<0.05, respectively). Treatment with anti-sports anemia compound dosage led to no significant differences in rate-limiting enzyme of heme metabolism and globin in the exercised rats. The G group had a significantly higher HO-1 level in liver than the C group (P<0.01). These finds showed that exercise was associated with no significant difference in heme synthetase and alpha-globin gene expression, and significant difference in heme catabolic enzyme and beta-globin gene expression.CONCLUSION: The increase of HO-1 activity in liver might be one of the causes of the lower Hb, RBC and Hct status in exercised rats. labels: #Globins'
b'PURPOSE: In (hemoglobin, Hb) HbE\xce\xb2-thalassemia, HbE (\xce\xb2-26 Glu\xe2\x86\x92Lys) interacts with \xce\xb2-thalassemia to produce clinical manifestation of varying severity. This is the first proteomic effort to study changes in protein levels of erythrocytes isolated from HbE\xce\xb2-thalassemic patients compared to normal.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We have used 2-DE and MALDI-MS/MS-based techniques to investigate the differential proteome profiling of membrane and Hb-depleted fraction of cytosolic proteins of erythrocytes isolated from the peripheral blood samples of HbE\xce\xb2-thalassemia patients and normal volunteers.RESULTS: Our study showed that redox regulators such as peroxiredoxin 2, Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase and thioredoxin and chaperones such as \xce\xb1-hemoglobin stabilizing protein and HSP-70 were upregulated in HbE\xce\xb2-thalassemia. We have also observed larger amounts of membrane associated globin chains and indications of disruption of spectrin-based junctional complex in the membrane skeleton of HbE\xce\xb2-thalassemic erythrocytes upon detection of low molecular weight fragments of \xce\xb2-spectrin and decrease in \xce\xb2-actin and dematin content.CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: We have observed interesting changes in the proteomic levels of redox regulators and chaperons in the thalassemic hemolysates and have observed strong correlation or association of the extent of such proteomic changes with HbE levels. This could be important in understanding the role of HbE in disease progression and pathophysiology. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: The lancelet amphioxus (Cephalochordata) is a close relative of vertebrates and thus may enhance our understanding of vertebrate gene and genome evolution. In this context, the globins are one of the best studied models for gene family evolution. Previous biochemical studies have demonstrated the presence of an intracellular globin in notochord tissue and myotome of amphioxus, but the corresponding gene has not yet been identified. Genomic resources of Branchiostoma floridae now facilitate the identification, experimental confirmation and molecular evolutionary analysis of its globin gene repertoire.RESULTS: We show that B. floridae harbors at least fifteen paralogous globin genes, all of which reveal evidence of gene expression. The protein sequences of twelve globins display the conserved characteristics of a functional globin fold. In phylogenetic analyses, the amphioxus globin BflGb4 forms a common clade with vertebrate neuroglobins, indicating the presence of this nerve globin in cephalochordates. Orthology is corroborated by conserved syntenic linkage of BflGb4 and flanking genes. The kinetics of ligand binding of recombinantly expressed BflGb4 reveals that this globin is hexacoordinated with a high oxygen association rate, thus strongly resembling vertebrate neuroglobin. In addition, possible amphioxus orthologs of the vertebrate globin X lineage and of the myoglobin/cytoglobin/hemoglobin lineage can be identified, including one gene as a candidate for being expressed in notochord tissue. Genomic analyses identify conserved synteny between amphioxus globin-containing regions and the vertebrate \xce\xb2-globin locus, possibly arguing against a late transpositional origin of the \xce\xb2-globin cluster in vertebrates. Some amphioxus globin gene structures exhibit minisatellite-like tandem duplications of intron-exon boundaries ("mirages"), which may serve to explain the creation of novel intron positions within the globin genes.CONCLUSIONS: The identification of putative orthologs of vertebrate globin variants in the B. floridae genome underlines the importance of cephalochordates for elucidating vertebrate genome evolution. The present study facilitates detailed functional studies of the amphioxus globins in order to trace conserved properties and specific adaptations of respiratory proteins at the base of chordate evolution. labels: #Globins'
b"The haemoglobin protein, required for oxygen transportation in the body, is encoded by \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes that are arranged in clusters. The transpositional model for the evolution of distinct \xce\xb1-globin and \xce\xb2-globin clusters in amniotes is much simpler than the previously proposed whole genome duplication model. According to this model, all jawed vertebrates share one ancient region containing \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-globin genes and several flanking genes in the order MPG-C16orf35-(\xce\xb1-\xce\xb2)-GBY-LUC7L that has been conserved for more than 410 million years, whereas amniotes evolved a distinct \xce\xb2-globin cluster by insertion of a transposed \xce\xb2-globin gene from this ancient region into a cluster of olfactory receptors flanked by CCKBR and RRM1. It could not be determined whether this organisation is conserved in all amniotes because of the paucity of information from non-avian reptiles. To fill in this gap, we examined globin gene organisation in a squamate reptile, the Australian bearded dragon lizard, Pogona vitticeps (Agamidae). We report here that the \xce\xb1-globin cluster (HBK, HBA) is flanked by C16orf35 and GBY and is located on a pair of microchromosomes, whereas the \xce\xb2-globin cluster is flanked by RRM1 on the 3' end and is located on the long arm of chromosome 3. However, the CCKBR gene that flanks the \xce\xb2-globin cluster on the 5' end in other amniotes is located on the short arm of chromosome 5 in P. vitticeps, indicating that a chromosomal break between the \xce\xb2-globin cluster and CCKBR occurred at least in the agamid lineage. Our data from a reptile species provide further evidence to support the transpositional model for the evolution of \xce\xb2-globin gene cluster in amniotes. labels: #Globins"
b'The subterranean mole rat Spalax is an excellent model for studying adaptation of a mammal toward chronic environmental hypoxia. Neuroglobin (Ngb) and cytoglobin (Cygb) are O(2)-binding respiratory proteins and thus candidates for being involved in molecular hypoxia adaptations of Spalax. Ngb is expressed primarily in vertebrate nerves, whereas Cygb is found in extracellular matrix-producing cells and in some neurons. The physiological functions of both proteins are not fully understood but discussed with regard to O(2) supply, the detoxification of reactive oxygen or nitrogen species, and apoptosis protection. Spalax Ngb and Cygb coding sequences are strongly conserved. However, mRNA and protein levels of Ngb in Spalax brain are 3-fold higher than in Rattus norvegicus under normoxia. Importantly, Spalax expresses Ngb in neurons and additionally in glia, whereas in hypoxia-sensitive rodents Ngb expression is limited to neurons. Hypoxia causes an approximately 2-fold down-regulation of Ngb mRNA in brain of rat and mole rat. A parallel regulatory response was found for myoglobin (Mb) in Spalax and rat muscle, suggesting similar functions of Mb and Ngb. Cygb also revealed an augmented normoxic expression in Spalax vs. rat brain, but not in heart or liver, indicating distinct tissue-specific functions. Hypoxia induced Cygb transcription in heart and liver of both mammals, with the most prominent mRNA up-regulation (12-fold) in Spalax heart. Our data suggest that tissue globins contribute to the remarkable tolerance of Spalax toward environmental hypoxia. This is consistent with the proposed cytoprotective effect of Ngb and Cygb under pathological hypoxic/ischemic conditions in mammals. labels: #Globins'
b'OBJECTIVE: The induction of fetal hemoglobin during definitive erythropoiesis is a major therapeutic goal in \xce\xb2-globin gene disorders. Butyrate induces fetal hemoglobin, and p38 phosphorylation has been implicated in this process. We studied p38 and the effect of its inhibitors in a physiologic primary cell model of fetal/embryonic globin gene induction during definitive erythropoiesis.METHODS: p38 phosphorylation was evaluated in a short-term culture of definitive erythroid precursor (EryD) cells following butyrate induction, absent prolonged exposure to cytokines. The impact of p38 inhibitors on embryonic/fetal globin gene induction by butyrate and on normal erythroid processes, including proliferation, differentiation, cell cycle occupancy, and RNA transcription, was also examined.RESULTS: p38 phosphorylation, maximal at harvest of murine fetal liver-derived EryD (FL EryD), when minimal embryonic/fetal globin gene expression is seen, is suppressed by EPO (as reported by others). Butyrate initially delays EPO-mediated suppression of p38 phosphorylation, but p38 phosphorylation thereafter, at 30 minutes to 48 hours, is equivalent and at low levels in EPO-treated FL EryD, with or without butyrate. Inhibitors of p38, at 10-50 \xce\xbcM, prevent butyrate-mediated induction of embryonic/fetal globin gene expression. We found that p38 inhibitors, which also disrupt non-p38 signaling pathways, perturb cell division, erythroid differentiation, transit through the cell cycle, and RNA transcription in primary EryD.CONCLUSION: p38 inhibitors interrupt normal erythropoiesis and the capacity for embryonic/fetal globin gene induction. However, p38 signaling is maximal in primary EryD at harvest, when embryonic globin genes are minimally expressed, and diminishes thereafter. We conclude that p38 inhibitors disrupt cellular pathways that are essential to butyrate-induced embryonic/fetal globin gene expression. However, levels of p38 phosphorylation are not coordinate with embryonic/fetal globin gene expression in EryD, and increased signaling through p38 may not be the sine qua non for embryonic/fetal globin gene induction. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb), a newly identified globin in vertebrate brain, has been suggested to be able to protect against brain hypoxic-ischemic injury. However, owing to its large size, the impermeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) to Ngb limits its application in brain injury. Recently, the 11-amino-acid human immunodeficiency virus trans-activator of transcription (TAT) protein transduction domain was shown to successfully deliver macromolecules into the brain. This study explored whether the TAT-Ngb fusion protein can cross the BBB and protect the brain from cerebral ischemia. The TAT-Ngb fusion protein generated from Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3) was efficiently delivered into mice brain tissues by intravenous injection as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Two groups of mice were treated with filamentous middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 30min or 2h followed by reperfusion. Each group was then divided into sub-groups and was injected intravenously with TAT-Ngb, Ngb, or saline respectively before MCAO or immediately after reperfusion. Compared with the Ngb- and saline-treated group, the group with TAT-Ngb treated 2h before MCAO showed significantly less brain infarct volume and had better neurologic outcomes (p<0.05). Furthermore, a TAT-Ngb injection following a 30-min MCAO treatment significantly increased neuronal survival in the striatum (p<0.05). Our results demonstrated that the exogenous Ngb fusion protein containing the TAT protein transduction domain could be efficiently transduced into neurons in the mouse and protect the brain from mild or moderate ischemic injury. labels: #Globins'
b'Despite the source or mechanism of origin of islets of Langerhans or islet \xce\xb2-cells, all suffer significant cell loss from ischemia after isolation, thereby reducing the surviving islet mass available for study or transplantation. Methods to reduce beta cell death after islet isolation and transplantation must be developed if islet transplantation is to become an accepted treatment for diabetes. In order to enhance intracellular oxygen delivery and utilization, islets were transfected with a plasmid encoding cytoglobin, an intracellular oxygen binding protein. Oxygen consumption, insulin secretion, and the degree of central islet necrosis were measured in untreated and transfected islets to test the effects of cytoglobin on islet survival and function in vitro. The presence of cytoglobin reduced islet cell loss by reducing hypoxia related central islet necrosis and increased insulin secretion as compared with untreated islets. Cytoglobin treated islets maintained a normal rate of oxygen consumption, while untreated islets increased the rate of oxygen consumption caused by a shift to anaerobic metabolism and increased reactive oxygen specie synthesis. The induction of cytoglobin in islets may reduce cell loss from chronic hypoxia and may be a useful adjunct to islet transplantation. labels: #Globins'
b'YddV from Escherichia coli (Ec) is a novel globin-coupled heme-based oxygen sensor protein displaying diguanylate cyclase activity in response to oxygen availability. In this study, we quantified the turnover numbers of the active [Fe(III), 0.066 min(-1); Fe(II)-O(2) and Fe(II)-CO, 0.022 min(-1)] [Fe(III), Fe(III)-protoporphyrin IX complex; Fe(II), Fe(II)-protoporphyrin IX complex]and inactive forms [Fe(II) and Fe(II)-NO,<0.01 min(-1)] of YddV for the first time. Our data indicate that the YddV reaction is the rate-determining step for two consecutive reactions coupled with phosphodiesterase Ec DOS activity on cyclic di-GMP (c-di-GMP) [turnover number of Ec DOS-Fe(II)-O(2), 61 min(-1)]. Thus, O(2) binding and the heme redox switch of YddV appear to be critical factors in the regulation of c-di-GMP homeostasis. The redox potential and autoxidation rate of heme of the isolated heme domain of YddV (YddV-heme) were determined to be -17 mV versus the standard hydrogen electrode and 0.0076 min(-1), respectively. The Fe(II) complexes of Y43A and Y43L mutant proteins (residues at the heme distal side of the isolated heme-bound globin domain of YddV) exhibited very low O(2) affinities, and thus, their Fe(II)-O(2) complexes were not detected on the spectra. The O(2) dissociation rate constant of the Y43W protein was>150 s(-1), which is significantly larger than that of the wild-type protein (22 s(-1)). The autoxidation rate constants of the Y43F and Y43W mutant proteins were 0.069 and 0.12 min(-1), respectively, which are also markedly higher than that of the wild-type protein. The resonance Raman frequencies representing \xce\xbd(Fe-O(2)) (559 cm(-1)) of the Fe(II)-O(2) complex and \xce\xbd(Fe-CO) (505 cm(-1)) of the Fe(II)-CO complex of Y43F differed from those (\xce\xbd(Fe-O(2)), 565 cm(-1); \xce\xbd(Fe-CO), 495 cm(-1)) of the wild-type protein, suggesting that Tyr43 forms hydrogen bonds with both O(2) and CO molecules. On the basis of the results, we suggest that Tyr43 located at the heme distal side is important for the O(2) recognition and stability of the Fe(II)-O(2) complex, because the hydroxyl group of the residue appears to interact electrostatically with the O(2) molecule bound to the Fe(II) complex in YddV. Our findings clearly support a role of Tyr in oxygen sensing, and thus modulation of overall conversion from GTP to pGpG via c-di-GMP catalyzed by YddV and Ec DOS, which may be applicable to other globin-coupled oxygen sensor enzymes. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb), a hexa-coordinated hemoprotein primarily expressed in the brain and retina, is thought to be involved in neuroprotection and signal transduction. Ngb can reversibly bind small ligands such as O\xe2\x82\x82 and CO to the heme iron by replacing the distal histidine which is bound to the iron as the endogenous ligand. In this work, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were performed to investigate the functionally related structural properties and dynamical characteristics in carboxy mouse neuroglobin and three distal mutants including single mutants H64V, K67T and double mutant H64V/K67T. MD simulations suggest that the heme sliding motion induced by the binding of exogenous ligand is affected by the distal mutation obviously. Accompanying changes in loop flexibility and internal cavities imply the structural rearrangement of Ngb. Moreover, the solvent accessibility of heme and some crucial residues are influenced revealing an interactive network on the distal side. The work elucidates that the key residues K67 at E10 and H64 at E7 are significant in modulating the heme sliding and hence the structural and physiological function of Ngb. labels: #Globins'
b"OBJECTIVE: To investigate the intra-retinal expression of neuroglobin (Ngb) and death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in acute retina ischemia rats.METHODS: It was an experimental study. The acute retina ischemia model was established by specific hypothesised left retina artery of Sprague-Dawley rats. Forty rats were divided into four groups (0, 15, 30, 60 min) by the time of retina ischemia. Every group has 10 rats, in one group random 3 rats were detected by Western blotting; 4 rats were detected by ganglion cell counted by hematoxylin and eosin stain and immunohistochemistry fluorescence intensity analysis. The rest 3 rats were detected by Western blotting. The difference among different data were analyzed statistically by One-factor analysis of variance and LSD-t analysis.RESULTS: The intra-retinal expression of Ngb reached maximum after acute ischemia 15 minute (P = 0.000). then the expression began decreasing. After 30 minute acute ischemia, the expression of Ngb had approached normal (P = 0.728), while, the cell number of RGCs began lower than 0 min group (P = 0.011); after 60 minute acute ischemia, the expression of Ngb had been obviously lower than 0 min group (P = 0.001), the cell number of RGCs had been further lower than 0 min group (P = 0.000). The expression of Ngb in RGCs layer was highest in rat retina. The expression in inner plexiform layer and external plexiform layer were lower than the former. The expression of Ngb RGCs was mostly intracytoplasm. After 30 minute acute ischemia, the expression of Ngb were detected in mitochondrial outer compartment and mitochondrial cristae, but in cytoplasm of inner nuclear layer and outer nuclear layer the Ngb was not found.CONCLUSION: Ngb quickly steps-up when RGCs die in acute retina ischemia, and mainly expresses intracytoplasm of RGCs. It has tense relationships with nerve cells' survival in hypoxia. labels: #Globins"
b'Fishes live in an aquatic environment with low or temporally changing O(2) availability. Variations in O(2) levels require many anatomical, behavioral, physiological, and biochemical adaptations that ensure the uptake of an adequate amount of O(2). Some fish species are comparatively well adapted to tolerate low O(2) partial pressure (hypoxia). The Japanese ricefish medaka (Oryzias latipes) is an important model organism for biomedical research that shows remarkable tolerance towards hypoxia. We have investigated the regulation and role of globins under hypoxia. We applied four different regimes of chronic hypoxia (24 and 48\xc2\xa0h at PO(2)\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa02 or 4\xc2\xa0kPa) as well as acute hypoxia (2\xc2\xa0h at PO(2)\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.5\xc2\xa0kPa) to adult male medaka. Changes of mRNA levels of seven globin genes (adult hemoglobin \xce\xb1 and \xce\xb2, myoglobin, neuroglobin, cytoglobin 1 and 2, globin X), three hypoxia-response genes (lactate dehydrogenase b, phosphoglycerate kinase, adrenomedullin 1) and two putative reference genes (cyclophilin, acidic ribosomal phosphoprotein P0) were monitored by means of quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR. We observed strong upregulation of myoglobin, which is also expressed in the medaka brain, as previously demonstrated for carp, goldfish and zebrafish. The hemoglobin chains were found upregulated, whereas earlier studies found down-regulation of hemoglobin in hypoxic zebrafish. By contrast, neuroglobin mRNA was not affected by hypoxia in medaka, but had been found upregulated in zebrafish. Globin X is induced in medaka brain, but down-regulated in zebrafish. Thus, the patterns of hypoxia response of globins are strikingly different in various fish species, which can be interpreted as indication for different roles of the various globins in hypoxia response and for alternative metabolic strategies of fish species in coping with O(2) deprivation. labels: #Globins'
b'BACKGROUND: The vertebrate globin genes encoding the \xce\xb1- and \xce\xb2-subunits of the tetrameric hemoglobins are clustered at two unlinked loci. The highly conserved linear order of the genes flanking the hemoglobins provides a strong anchor for inferring common ancestry of the globin clusters. In fish, the number of \xce\xb1-\xce\xb2-linked globin genes varies considerably between different sublineages and seems to be related to prevailing physico-chemical conditions. Draft sequences of the Atlantic cod genome enabled us to determine the genomic organization of the globin repertoire in this marine species that copes with fluctuating environments of the temperate and Arctic regions.RESULTS: The Atlantic cod genome was shown to contain 14 globin genes, including nine hemoglobin genes organized in two unlinked clusters designated \xce\xb25-\xce\xb11-\xce\xb21-\xce\xb14 and \xce\xb23-\xce\xb24-\xce\xb12-\xce\xb13-\xce\xb22. The diverged cod hemoglobin genes displayed different expression levels in adult fish, and tetrameric hemoglobins with or without a Root effect were predicted. The novel finding of maternally inherited hemoglobin mRNAs is consistent with a potential role played by fish hemoglobins in the non-specific immune response. In silico analysis of the six teleost genomes available showed that the two \xce\xb1-\xce\xb2 globin clusters are flanked by paralogs of five duplicated genes, in agreement with the proposed teleost-specific duplication of the ancestral vertebrate globin cluster. Screening the genome of extant urochordate and cephalochordate species for conserved globin-flanking genes revealed linkage of RHBDF1, MPG and ARHGAP17 to globin genes in the tunicate Ciona intestinalis, while these genes together with LCMT are closely positioned in amphioxus (Branchiostoma floridae), but seem to be unlinked to the multiple globin genes identified in this species.CONCLUSION: The plasticity of Atlantic cod to variable environmental conditions probably involves the expression of multiple globins with potentially different properties. The interspecific difference in number of fish hemoglobin genes contrasts with the highly conserved synteny of the flanking genes. The proximity of globin-flanking genes in the tunicate and amphioxus genomes resembles the RHBDF1-MPG-\xce\xb1-globin-ARHGAP17-LCMT linked genes in man and chicken. We hypothesize that the fusion of the three chordate linkage groups 3, 15 and 17 more than 800 MYA led to the ancestral vertebrate globin cluster during a geological period of increased atmospheric oxygen content. labels: #Globins'
b'AIM: The unexpected identification of myoglobin (MB) in breast cancer prompted us to evaluate the clinico-pathological value of MB, haemoglobin (HB) and cytoglobin (CYGB) in human breast carcinoma cases. We further screened for the presence of neuroglobin (NGB) and CYGB in tumours of diverse origin, and assessed the O(2) -response of HB, MB and CYGB mRNAs in cancer cell lines, to better elicit the links between this ectopic globin expression and tumour hypoxia.METHODS: Breast tumours were analysed by immunohistochemistry for HB, MB and CYGB and correlated with clinico-pathological parameters. Screening for CYGB and NGB mRNA expression in tumour entities was performed by hybridization, quantitative PCR (qPCR) and bioinformatics. Hypoxic or anoxic responses of HB, MB and CYGB mRNAs was analysed by qPCR in human Hep3B, MCF7, HeLa and RCC4 cancer cell lines.RESULTS: 78.8% of breast cancer cases were positive for MB, 77.9% were positive for HB and 55.4% expressed CYGB. The closest correlation with markers of hypoxia was observed for CYGB. Compared to the weakly positive status of MB in healthy breast tissues, invasive tumours either lost or up-regulated MB. Breast carcinomas showed the tendency to silence CYGB. HB was not seen in normal tissues and up-regulated in tumours. Beyond breast malignancies, expression levels of NGB and CYGB mRNAs were extremely low in brain tumours (glioblastoma, astrocytoma). NGB was not observed in non-brain tumours. CYGB mRNA, readily detectable in breast cancer and other tumours, is down-regulated in lung adenocarcinomas. Alpha1 globin (\xce\xb11 globin) and Mb were co-expressed in MCF7 and HeLa cells; CYGB transcription was anoxia-inducible in Hep3B and RCC4 cells.CONCLUSIONS: This is the first time that HB and CYGB are reported in breast cancer. Neither NGB nor CYGB are systematically up-regulated in tumours. The down-regulated CYGB expression in breast and lung tumours is in line with a tumour-suppressor role. Each of the screened cancer cells expresses at least one globin (i.e. main globin species: CYGB in Hep3B; \xce\xb11 globin + MB in MCF7 and HeLa). Thus, globins exist in a wide variety of solid tumours. However, the generally weak expression of the endogenous proteins in the cancer argues against a significant contribution to tumour oxygenation. Future studies should consider that cancer-expressed globins might function in ways not directly linked to the binding and transport of oxygen. labels: #Globins'
b"Free radicals are by-products of metabolism and exist in a homeostasis between generation and scavenging in vivo. Excessive free radicals cause various diseases, including nervous system diseases. Neuroglobin (Ngb), a nervous system-specific oxygen-binding protein, has been suggested to be a potential free radical scavenger in the nervous system in vivo; however, its underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the antioxidant potential and free radical scavenging properties of recombinant human Ngb (rhNgb) in vitro. Interestingly, we found that the rhNgb protein itself has a direct and distinct antioxidant capacity and can efficiently scavenge a variety of free radicals, including the [2,2'-azino-di-(3-ethyl-benzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid)] (ABTS) cation, superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide, and hydroxyl radical. The capacity of rhNgb to scavenge the superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide was even comparable to that of vitamin C. In addition, rhNgb had Fe(2+) chelating activity but hemoglobin did not. In conclusion, our results indicated that the rhNgb protein itself has antioxidant and free radical scavenging activities, providing fundamental evidence for the neuroprotective function of Ngb. These data provide key information for the origin of the neuroprotective and physiological role of Ngb and will promote the treatment of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-related diseases using this novel oxygen-binding globin. labels: #Globins"
b'Polarized Fe K-edge X-ray absorption near-edge structure (XANES) spectra of murine carbonmonoxy-neuroglobin (NgbCO) single crystals have been collected and compared with a number of derivatives of sperm whale myoglobin (Mb), that is, the nitrosyl (MbNO) and deoxy (Mb) derivatives, the previously reported cyanomet (MbCN) and carbonmonoxy (MbCO) derivatives, and the cryogenic photoproduct of MbCO (Mb\xc2\xb7CO). The single crystals under study exhibit a strong XANES angular dichroism which allows the heme geometry of each sample to be analyzed with extremely high accuracy via the full multiple scattering (MS) approach. The results of two alternative methods to undergo the MS analysis have been compared with high resolution X-ray diffraction (XRD) data and with X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) data in solution. As a result of the present analysis, the Fe-heme structure in solution and in the cryo-trapped NgbCO single crystal (which cracks at room temperature) are the same. Accordingly, the residual energy involved in the protein relaxation responsible of crystal cracking at room temperature after CO binding does not reside in the heme pocket. A combined approach (polarized XANES and XRD) is suggested to be applied on the same single crystals of metalloproteins at opportunely equipped synchrotron beamlines. labels: #Globins'
b'High-altitude hypoxia (reduced inspired oxygen tension due to decreased barometric pressure) exerts severe physiological stress on the human body. Two high-altitude regions where humans have lived for millennia are the Andean Altiplano and the Tibetan Plateau. Populations living in these regions exhibit unique circulatory, respiratory, and hematological adaptations to life at high altitude. Although these responses have been well characterized physiologically, their underlying genetic basis remains unknown. We performed a genome scan to identify genes showing evidence of adaptation to hypoxia. We looked across each chromosome to identify genomic regions with previously unknown function with respect to altitude phenotypes. In addition, groups of genes functioning in oxygen metabolism and sensing were examined to test the hypothesis that particular pathways have been involved in genetic adaptation to altitude. Applying four population genetic statistics commonly used for detecting signatures of natural selection, we identified selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in these two populations (Andeans and Tibetans) separately. The Tibetan and Andean patterns of genetic adaptation are largely distinct from one another, with both populations showing evidence of positive natural selection in different genes or gene regions. Interestingly, one gene previously known to be important in cellular oxygen sensing, EGLN1 (also known as PHD2), shows evidence of positive selection in both Tibetans and Andeans. However, the pattern of variation for this gene differs between the two populations. Our results indicate that several key HIF-regulatory and targeted genes are responsible for adaptation to high altitude in Andeans and Tibetans, and several different chromosomal regions are implicated in the putative response to selection. These data suggest a genetic role in high-altitude adaption and provide a basis for future genotype/phenotype association studies necessary to confirm the role of selection-nominated candidate genes and gene regions in adaptation to altitude. labels: #Globins'
b'This work explores the effect of long-range tertiary contacts on the distribution of residual secondary structure in the unfolded state of an alpha-helical protein. N-terminal fragments of increasing length, in conjunction with multidimensional nuclear magnetic resonance, were employed. A protein representative of the ubiquitous globin fold was chosen as the model system. We found that, while most of the detectable alpha-helical population in the unfolded ensemble does not depend on the presence of the C-terminal region (corresponding to the native G and H helices), specific N-to-C long-range contacts between the H and A-B-C regions enhance the helical secondary structure content of the N terminus (A-B-C regions). The simple approach introduced here, based on the evaluation of N-terminal polypeptide fragments of increasing length, is of general applicability to identify the influence of long-range interactions in unfolded proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Late-stage erythroid cells synthesize large quantities of haemoglobin, a process requiring the co-ordinated regulation of globin and haem synthesis as well as iron uptake. In the present study, we investigated the role of the ERK (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase) and p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signalling pathways in MEL (mouse erythroleukaemia) cell differentiation. We found that treatment of HMBA (hexamethylene bisacetamide)-induced MEL cells with the ERK pathway inhibitor UO126 results in an increase in intracellular haem and haemoglobin levels. The transcript levels of the genes coding for \xce\xb2(major)-globin, the haem biosynthesis enzyme 5-aminolevulinate synthase 2 and the mitochondrial iron transporter mitoferrin 1 are up-regulated. We also showed enhanced expression of globin and transferrin receptor 1 proteins upon UO126 treatment. With respect to iron uptake, we found that ERK inhibitor treatment led to an increase in both haem-bound and total iron. In contrast, treatment of MEL cells with the p38 MAPK pathway inhibitor SB202190 had the opposite effect, resulting in decreased globin expression, haem synthesis and iron uptake. Reporter assays showed that globin promoter and HS2 enhancer-mediated transcription was under the control of MAPKs, as inhibition of the ERK and p38 MAPK pathways led to increased and decreased gene activity respectively. Our present results suggest that the ERK1/2 and p38\xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 MAPKs play antagonistic roles in HMBA-induced globin gene expression and erythroid differentiation. These results provide a novel link between MAPK signalling and the regulation of haem biosynthesis and iron uptake in erythroid cells. labels: #Globins'
b"Cytoglobin (Cygb), a novel member of the globin superfamily, is expressed by fibroblasts in various organs. However, its function remains unknown. Because of its localization, we speculated that a biological role of Cygb may be related to fibrogenesis. To clarify the role of Cygb in kidney fibrosis, we employed the remnant kidney model in rats. Immunohistochemical analysis showed an increase in Cygb expression in parallel with disease progression. To investigate the functional consequence of Cygb upregulation, we established transgenic rats overexpressing rat Cygb. Overexpression of Cygb improved histological injury, preserved renal function, and ameliorated fibrosis, as estimated by the accumulation of collagen I and IV as well as Masson trichrome staining. These protective effects of Cygb were associated with a decrease in nitrotyrosine deposition in the kidney and urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) excretion as a marker of oxidative stress. We also performed in vitro studies utilizing a rat kidney fibroblast cell line transiently overexpressing Cygb, an inducible kidney cell transfected with Cygb, and primary cultured fibroblasts isolated from the kidneys of the transgenic rats. These different experimental systems consistently showed that Cygb inhibited collagen synthesis. Furthermore, mutant disruption of heme in Cygb that impaired its antioxidant properties led to the loss of antifibrotic effects, suggesting that Cygb reduces fibrosis via a radical scavenging function. In conclusion, we showed that Cygb plays an important role in protection of the kidney against fibrosis via the amelioration of oxidative stress both in vitro and in vivo. Cygb might represent a good therapeutic target in chronic kidney disease. labels: #Globins"
b'Hematopoiesis during mammalian embryonic development has been perceived as a migratory phenomenon, from the yolk sac blood island to the aorta-gonad-mesonephros (AGM) region, fetal liver (FL), and subsequently, the fetal bone marrow. In this study, we investigated the effects of primary stromal cells from fetal hematopoietic niches and their conditioned media (CM), applied singly or in sequential orders, on induction of human embryonic stem cells, H1, H9, and H14 lines, to hematopoietic cells. Our results demonstrated that stromal support of FL, AGM\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89FL, and AGM\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89FL\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89fetal bone marrow significantly increased the proliferation of embryoid bodies (EB) at day 18 of hematopoietic induction in the presence of thrombopoietin, stem cell factor, and Flt-3 ligand. AGM\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89FL also increased hematopoietic colony-forming unit (CFU) formation. CM did not enhance EB proliferation but CM of FL and AGM\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89FL significantly increased the density of total CFU and early erythroid (burst-forming unit) progenitors. Increased commitment to the hematopoietic lineage was demonstrated by enhanced expressions of CD45, alpha-, beta-, and gamma-globins in CFU at day 32, compared with EB at day 18. CM of FL significantly increased these globin expressions, indicating enhanced switches from embryonic to fetal and adult erythropoiesis. Over 50% and 10% of cells derived from CFU expressed CD45 and beta-globin proteins, respectively. Expressions of hematopoietic regulatory genes (Bmi-1, \xce\xb2-Catenin, Hox B4, GATA-1) were increased in EB or CFU cultures supported by FL or sequential CM. Our study has provided a strategy for derivation of hematopoietic cells from embryonic stem cells under the influence of primary hematopoietic niches and CM, particularly the FL. labels: #Globins'
b"We have developed an experimental procedure to analyze the spatial proximity of nuclear matrix-bound DNA fragments. This protocol, referred to as Matrix 3C (M3C), includes a high salt extraction of nuclei, the removal of distal parts of unfolded DNA loops using restriction enzyme treatment, ligation of the nuclear matrix-bound DNA fragments and a subsequent analysis of ligation frequencies. Using the M3C procedure, we have demonstrated that CpG islands of at least three housekeeping genes that surround the chicken \xce\xb1-globin gene domain are assembled into a complex (presumably, a transcription factory) that is stabilized by the nuclear matrix in both erythroid and non-erythroid cells. In erythroid cells, the regulatory elements of the \xce\xb1-globin genes are attracted to this complex to form a new assembly: an active chromatin hub that is linked to the pre-existing transcription factory. The erythroid-specific part of the assembly is removed by high salt extraction. Based on these observations, we propose that mixed transcription factories that mediate the transcription of both housekeeping and tissue-specific genes are composed of a permanent compartment containing integrated into the nuclear matrix promoters of housekeeping genes and a 'guest' compartment where promoters and regulatory elements of tissue-specific genes can be temporarily recruited. labels: #Globins"
b'INTRODUCTION: Deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) is used in corrective cardiac surgery for complex congenital heart disease. Endogenous protective mechanisms may be responsible for the prevention of brain damage after hypothermic ischemia. Neuroglobin and cytoglobin are expressed in brain cells and appear to modulate hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. However, their neuroprotective potency is still not understood. Thus the aim of this study was to detect the influence exerted by DHCA on their expression.METHODS: The effects of DHCA were analyzed in a neonatal piglet model with cardiopulmonary bypass, DHCA of 60 and 120 min and subsequent reperfusion of 6h. Complete histological analysis and changes in the mRNA expression of neuroglobin and cytoglobin were measured in the brain.RESULTS: In comparison to animals without DHCA, neuroglobin expression was stable after 60 min DHCA and neuronal cell necrosis in the cortex was mild (<10 %). Neuroglobin expression was significantly reduced after 120 min DHCA, which was accompanied by substantial neuronal cell necrosis (>50 %). Cytoglobin expression did not differ significantly between animals with neuronal necrosis vs. sham.CONCLUSION: Constitutive expression levels of neuroglobin may explain the mild neuronal injury after 60 min DHCA. Significant neuronal cell death correlates with reduced neuroglobin expression and might reflect a limited capacity to compensate for ischemic injury. Both respiratory cell proteins may constitute attractive targets for therapeutic modulation of gene regulation, but further studies are necessary. labels: #Globins'
b'Natural selection often promotes evolutionary innovation by coopting preexisting genes for new functions, and this process may be greatly facilitated by gene duplication. Here we report an example of cooptive convergence where paralogous members of the globin gene superfamily independently evolved a specialized O(2) transport function in the two deepest branches of the vertebrate family tree. Specifically, phylogenetic evidence demonstrates that erythroid-specific O(2) transport hemoglobins evolved independently from different ancestral precursor proteins in jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) and jawless fish (cyclostomes, represented by lamprey and hagfish). A comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of the vertebrate globin gene superfamily revealed that the erythroid hemoglobins of cyclostomes are orthologous to the cytoglobin protein of gnathostome vertebrates, a hexacoordinate globin that has no O(2) transport function and that is predominantly expressed in fibroblasts and related cell types. The phylogeny reconstruction also revealed that vertebrate-specific globins are grouped into four main clades: (i) cyclostome hemoglobin + cytoglobin, (ii) myoglobin + globin E, (iii) globin Y, and (iv) the alpha- and beta-chain hemoglobins of gnathostomes. In the hemoglobins of gnathostomes and cyclostomes, multisubunit quaternary structures provide the basis for cooperative O(2) binding and allosteric regulation by coupling the effects of ligand binding at individual subunits with interactions between subunits. However, differences in numerous structural details belie their independent origins. This example of convergent evolution of protein function provides an impressive demonstration of the ability of natural selection to cobble together complex design solutions by tinkering with different variations of the same basic protein scaffold. labels: #Globins'
b'A 40-year-old Greek male was admitted to the hospital because of acute respiratory infection. The patient has been undergoing regular venesection for erythrocytosis for 20 years; he has also been taking oral anticoagulants for thrombosis for 15 years. The molecular defect for erythrocytosis was detected together with the rare Hb Olympia (HBB:c.61G>A) variant. This hemoglobin (Hb) variant was found in combination with two thalassemia-type globin gene defects, namely beta(0)-thalassemia (beta(0)-thal), HBB:c.118C>T and alpha(0)-thal (- -(MED)). This combination of three molecular defects is the first such case reported in the literature. labels: #Globins'
b'Retrotransposons including endogenous retroviruses and their solitary long terminal repeats (LTRs) compose>40% of the human genome. Many of them are located in intergenic regions far from genes. Whether these intergenic retrotransposons serve beneficial host functions is not known. Here we show that an LTR retrotransposon of ERV-9 human endogenous retrovirus located 40-70 kb upstream of the human fetal gamma- and adult beta-globin genes serves a long-range, host function. The ERV-9 LTR contains multiple CCAAT and GATA motifs and competitively recruits a high concentration of NF-Y and GATA-2 present in low abundance in adult erythroid cells to assemble an LTR/RNA polymerase II complex. The LTR complex transcribes intergenic RNAs unidirectionally through the intervening DNA to loop with and modulate transcription factor occupancies at the far downstream globin promoters, thereby modulating globin gene switching by a competitive mechanism. labels: #Globins'
b'The globin-coupled sensor (GCS) of Geobacter sulfurreducens is unique amongst GCSs in that its signalling domain is a transmembrane domain with yet unknown function. In the present work we use X-band continuous-wave and pulsed electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) to investigate the ferric form of the globin domain of the G. sulfurreducens GCS (GsGCS(162)) at pH 8.5. This form shows a unique bis-histidine coordination of the heme with the F8His and E11His. In contrast with previous crystal structure data, where three conformers of the heme structure were identified, ferric GsGCS(162) assumes only one conformation in frozen solution. The EPR data of ferric GsGCS162 are compared in detail with those of other bis-histidine coordinated globins, including other GCS systems. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a recently discovered globin that affords protection against hypoxic/ischemic-induced cell injury in brain. Hypoxic/ischemic injury is associated with accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and/or reactive nitrogen species (RNS). In previous studies, we found that Ngb has antioxidative properties, and protects PC-12 cells against hypoxia- and \xce\xb2-amyloid-induced cell death. To further delineate the potential role of Ngb in protection against cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in vivo, we developed a transgenic mouse line that overexpresses Ngb. Hippocampal ischemia-reperfusion injury was induced by a 10-minute bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries, and the animal brains were assessed 3 days later. CA1 neural injury was determined by cresyl violet staining. Lipid peroxidation was assessed using a malonyldialdehyde assay kit, whereas ROS/RNS accumulation was determined by Het staining in the CA1 hippocampal region. Hippocampal Ngb mRNA and protein expressions were assessed by reverse transcriptase-PCR and western blotting, respectively. Neuroglobin was successfully overexpressed in the hippocampus of Ngb transgenic mice. After ischemia-reperfusion, CA1 ROS/RNS production and lipid peroxidation were markedly decreased in Ngb transgenic mice compared with wild-type mice. Furthermore, CA1 neuronal injury was also markedly reduced. Thus, Ngb may confer protection against ischemia-reperfusion injury in the brain through its intrinsic antioxidant properties. labels: #Globins'
b'Amphitrite ornata dehaloperoxidase (DHP) is the first heme-containing globin possessing a native peroxidase enzymatic activity. DHP catalyzes the H(2)O(2)-dependent dehalogenation of halophenols. By possessing this detoxifying enzymatic activity, these organisms are able to thrive in an environment contaminated with toxic haloaromatics. It has been proposed that DHP evolved from a dioxygen carrier globin protein and therefore possesses dual physiological roles of O(2) carrier and dehaloperoxidase. Although DHP is isolated in the catalytically inactive oxyferrous state (oxy-DHP), we find that the combination of H(2)O(2) and the substrate 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (TCP) brings about facile switching of oxy-DHP to the enzymatically active ferric state via a process likely involving substrate radicals (TCP*). In contrast, in the absence of TCP, H(2)O(2) alone converts oxy-DHP to an inactive state (compound RH) instead of oxidizing the enzyme to the ferric state. Further, although the rate of autoxidation of oxy-DHP is somewhat enhanced by the presence of TCP, the effect is too small to be the functional switch. Instead, both substrate and H(2)O(2) are needed to convert oxy-DHP to the catalytically active ferric state. These observations provide a physiological link between the O(2) carrier role of the ferrous protein and the peroxidase activity of the ferric enzyme in this bifunctional protein. labels: #Globins'
b'The oligomeric state and kinetics of ligand binding were measured for wild-type cytoglobin. Cytoglobin has the classical globin fold, with an extension at each extremity of about 20 residues. The extended length of cytoglobin leads to an ambiguous interpretation of its oligomeric state. Although the hydrodynamic diameter corresponds to that of a dimer, it displays a mass of a single subunit, indicating a monomeric form. Thus, rather than displaying a compact globular form, cytoglobin behaves hydrodynamically like a tightly packed globin with a greater flexibility of the N- and C-terminal regions. Cytoglobin displays biphasic kinetics after the photolysis of CO, as a result of competition with an internal protein ligand, the E7 distal histidine. An internal disulfide bond may form which modifies the rate of dissociation of the distal histidine and apparently leads to different cytoglobin conformations, which may affect the observed oxygen affinity by an order of magnitude. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin (Ngb) is proposed to be a neuron-specific, hypoxia-responsive, neuroprotective protein. However, results are conflicting concerning both Ngb's physiological and pathological significance. This study was designed to investigate the in vivo localization and regulation of Ngb in different neuropathological models representing traumatic injury, infectious, autoimmune, and excitotoxic pathogeneses. We profiled Ngb immunohistochemistry in murine models of traumatic brain injury, cerebral malaria, experimental autoimmune encephalitis, and kainic acid (KA)-mediated epileptic seizures that, to our knowledge, have not been studied in the context of Ngb. In control mice Ngb was expressed exclusively in neurons. In all pathological models except KA, in addition to neurons Ngb was present in reactive astrocytes. Ngb positive astrocytes were found within regions associated with most severe pathology and the astroglial scar. This is the first report of Ngb present in reactive astroglia and in scar-forming astrocytes in response to different pathological conditions relevant to human disease. In light of previously reported cyto-protective properties of Ngb, further insight may result in therapeutic ramifications. labels: #Globins"
b'Vascular endothelial growth factor, which is critical for blood vessel formation, is regulated by hypoxia inducible transcription factors (HIFs). A component of the E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) facilitates oxygen-dependent polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of HIFalpha subunits. Hypothesizing that deletion of podocyte VHL would result in HIFalpha hyperstabilization, we crossed podocin promoter-Cre transgenic mice, which express Cre recombinase in podocytes beginning at the capillary loop stage of glomerular development, with floxed VHL mice. Vascular patterning and glomerular development appeared unaltered in progeny lacking podocyte VHL. However, urinalysis showed increased albumin excretion by 4 weeks when compared with wild-type littermates with several sever cases (>1000 microg/ml). Many glomerular ultrastructural changes were seen in mutants, including focal subendothelial delamination and widespread podocyte foot process broadening, and glomerular basement membranes (GBMs) were significantly thicker in 16-week-old mutants compared with controls. Moreover, immunoelectron microscopy showed ectopic deposition of collagen alpha1alpha2alpha1(IV) in GBM humps beneath podocytes. Significant increases in the number of Ki-67-positive mesangial cells were also found, but glomerular WT1 expression was significantly decreased, signifying podocyte death and/or de-differentiation. Indeed, expression profiling of mutant glomeruli suggested a negative regulatory feedback loop involving the HIFalpha prolyl hydroxylase, Egln3. In addition, the brain oxygen-binding protein, Neuroglobin, was induced in mutant podocytes. We conclude that podocyte VHL is required for normal maintenance of podocytes, GBM composition and ultrastructure, and glomerular barrier properties. labels: #Globins'
b'Globins are heme-containing proteins that are best known for their roles in oxygen (O(2)) transport and storage. However, more diverse roles of globins in biology are being revealed, including gas and redox sensing. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, 33 globin or globin-like genes were recently identified, some of which are known to be expressed in the sensory neurons of the worm and linked to O(2) sensing behavior. Here, we describe GLB-6, a novel globin-like protein expressed in the neurons of C. elegans. Recombinantly expressed full-length GLB-6 contains a heme site with spectral features that are similar to those of other bis-histidyl ligated globins, such as neuroglobin and cytoglobin. In contrast to these globins, however, ligands such as CO, NO, and CN(-) do not bind to the heme in GLB-6, demonstrating that the endogenous histidine ligands are likely very tightly coordinated. Additionally, GLB-6 exhibits rapid two-state autoxidation kinetics in the presence of physiological O(2) levels as well as a low redox potential (-193 +/- 2 mV). A high-resolution (1.40 A) crystal structure of the ferric form of the heme domain of GLB-6 confirms both the putative globin fold and bis-histidyl ligation and also demonstrates key structural features that can be correlated with the unusual ligand binding and redox properties exhibited by the full-length protein. Taken together, the biochemical properties of GLB-6 suggest that this neural protein would most likely serve as a physiological sensor for O(2) in C. elegans via redox signaling and/or electron transfer. labels: #Globins'
b"Cytoglobin (Cygb) was investigated for its capacity to function as a NO dioxygenase (NOD) in vitro and in hepatocytes. Ascorbate and cytochrome b(5) were found to support a high NOD activity. Cygb-NOD activity shows respective K(m) values for ascorbate, cytochrome b(5), NO, and O(2) of 0.25 mm, 0.3 microm, 40 nm, and approximately 20 microm and achieves a k(cat) of 0.5 s(-1). Ascorbate and cytochrome b(5) reduce the oxidized Cygb-NOD intermediate with apparent second order rate constants of 1000 m(-1) s(-1) and 3 x 10(6) m(-1) s(-1), respectively. In rat hepatocytes engineered to express human Cygb, Cygb-NOD activity shows a similar k(cat) of 1.2 s(-1), a K(m)(NO) of 40 nm, and a k(cat)/K(m)(NO) (k'(NOD)) value of 3 x 10(7) m(-1) s(-1), demonstrating the efficiency of catalysis. NO inhibits the activity at [NO]/[O(2)]ratios>1:500 and limits catalytic turnover. The activity is competitively inhibited by CO, is slowly inactivated by cyanide, and is distinct from the microsomal NOD activity. Cygb-NOD provides protection to the NO-sensitive aconitase. The results define the NOD function of Cygb and demonstrate roles for ascorbate and cytochrome b(5) as reductants. labels: #Globins"
b'KLF1 regulates a diverse suite of genes to direct erythroid cell differentiation from bipotent progenitors. To determine the local cis-regulatory contexts and transcription factor networks in which KLF1 operates, we performed KLF1 ChIP-seq in the mouse. We found at least 945 sites in the genome of E14.5 fetal liver erythroid cells which are occupied by endogenous KLF1. Many of these recovered sites reside in erythroid gene promoters such as Hbb-b1, but the majority are distant to any known gene. Our data suggests KLF1 directly regulates most aspects of terminal erythroid differentiation including production of alpha- and beta-globin protein chains, heme biosynthesis, coordination of proliferation and anti-apoptotic pathways, and construction of the red cell membrane and cytoskeleton by functioning primarily as a transcriptional activator. Additionally, we suggest new mechanisms for KLF1 cooperation with other transcription factors, in particular the erythroid transcription factor GATA1, to maintain homeostasis in the erythroid compartment. labels: #Globins'
b'Defining the molecular mechanisms underpinning fetal (gamma) globin gene silencing may provide strategies for reactivation of gamma-gene expression, a major therapeutic objective in patients with beta-thalassemia and sickle cell disease (SCD). We have previously demonstrated that symmetric methylation of histone H4 Arginine 3 (H4R3me2s) by the protein arginine methyltransferase PRMT5 is required for recruitment of the DNA methyltransferase DNMT3A to the gamma-promoter, and subsequent DNA methylation and gene silencing. Here we show in an erythroid cell line, and in primary adult erythroid progenitors that PRMT5 induces additional repressive epigenetic marks at the gamma-promoter through the assembly of a multiprotein repressor complex containing the histone modifying enzymes SUV4-20h1, casein kinase 2alpha (CK2alpha), and components of the nucleosome remodeling and histone deacetylation complex. Expression of a mutant form of PRMT5 lacking methyltransferase activity or shRNA-mediated knockdown of SUV4-20h1 resulted in loss of complex binding to the gamma-promoter, reversal of both histone and DNA repressive epigenetic marks, and increased gamma-gene expression. The repressive H4K20me3 mark induced by SUV4-20h1 is enriched on the gamma-promoter in erythroid progenitors from adult bone marrow compared with cord blood, suggesting developmental specificity. These studies define coordinated epigenetic events linked to fetal globin gene silencing, and provide potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of beta-thalassemia and SCD. labels: #Globins'
b"OBJECTIVE: To study the expression changes of neuroglobin in rats with the model of diffuse traumatic brain injury and explore the relationship between the neuroglobin and neuron apoptosis in traumatic brain injury.METHODS: The diffuse traumatic brain injury of rats was induced by the Marmarou's 'weight-drop' device. And the immunohistochemical technique was used to detect the expression changes of neuroglobin and neuron apoptosis in rat brain at different time points post-injury.RESULTS: The expression of neuroglobin increased twice and reached peaks at 2 hours and 72 hours post-injury respectively. And the increased expression of neuroglobin from 30 minutes to 1 hour post-injury and from 48 hours to 72 hours post-injury accompanied with the decreased expression ratio of Bax to Bcl-2.CONCLUSION: The increased expression of neuroglobin in traumatic brain injury informed us that neuroglobin had anti-apoptosis action in post-injury neuron. It could protect the neuron from traumatic stress and secondary ischemia and hypoxia insults during ultra-early and acute stages. labels: #Globins"
b'The use of mouse blood as a model for human blood is often considered in the development of clinically relevant, gene expression-based disease biomarkers. However, the ability to derive biologically meaningful insights from microarray-based gene expression patterns in mouse whole blood, as in human whole blood, is hindered by high levels of globin mRNA. In order to characterize the effects of globin reduction on gene expression of peripheral mouse blood, we performed gene set enrichment analysis on genes identified as expressed in blood via microarray-based genome-wide transcriptome analysis. Depletion of globin mRNA enhanced the quality of microarray data as shown by improved gene expression detection and increased sensitivity. Compared to genes expressed in whole blood, genes detected as expressed in blood following globin reduction were enriched for low abundance transcripts implicated in many biological pathways, including development, g-protein signaling, and immune response. Broadly, globin reduction resulted in improved detection of expressed genes that serve as molecular binding proteins and enzymes in cellular metabolism, intracellular transport/localization, transcription, and translation, as well as genes that potentially could act as biomarkers for diseases such as schizophrenia. These significantly enriched pathways overlap considerably with those identified in globin-reduced human blood suggesting that globin-reduced mouse blood gene expression studies may be useful for identifying genes relevant to human disease. Overall, the results of this investigation provide a better understanding of the impact of reducing globin transcripts in mouse blood and highlight the potential of microarray-based, globin-reduced, mouse blood gene expression studies in biomarker development. labels: #Globins'
b'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are negative regulators of gene expression that play an important role in hematopoiesis. Thalassemia, a defective globin synthesis leading to precipitate of excess unbound globins in red blood cell precursors, results in defective erythroid precursors and ineffective erythropoiesis. Expression pattern of miR-451, an erythroid-specific miRNA, was analyzed during differentiation of erythroid progenitors derived from normal and thalassemic peripheral blood CD34-positive cells, after 14 days of culture. A biphasic expression with transient up-regulation of miRNA-451 on day 3 of cultures was observed during thalassemic erythroid differentiation. In contrast, the expression pattern of the miR-451 in erythroid cells obtained from the other extravascular hemolytic anemia, i.e., hereditary spherocytosis patients showed no transient up-regulation of miR-451 on day 3 of cultures. Our results suggest that early erythroid progenitors in beta-thalassemia have a dysregulated miRNA-451 expression program, and analysis of microRNA is a relevant approach to determine abnormalities of erythropoiesis. labels: #Globins'
b'Erythropoietin (EPO) exerts (renal) tissue protective effects. Since it is unclear whether this is a direct effect of EPO on the kidney or not, we investigated whether EPO is able to protect human renal tubular epithelial cells (hTECs) from oxidative stress and if so which pathways are involved. EPO (epoetin delta) could protect hTECs against oxidative stress by a dose-dependent inhibition of reactive oxygen species formation. This protective effect is possibly related to the membranous expression of the EPO receptor (EPOR) since our data point to the membranous EPOR expression as a prerequisite for this protective effect. Oxidative stress reduction went along with the upregulation of renoprotective genes. Whilst three of these, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), aquaporin-1 (AQP-1), and B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) have already been associated with EPO-induced renoprotection, this study for the first time suggests carboxypeptidase M (CPM), dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV), and cytoglobin (Cygb) to play a role in this process. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a globin found in the vertebrate brain. Recently, we found that zebrafish Ngb can translocate into cells and clarified that module M1 of zebrafish Ngb is important for protein transduction. In the present study, we used site-directed mutagenesis to identify residues of module M1 that are important for protein transduction. We show that Lys7, Lys9, Lys21, and Lys23 of zebrafish Ngb are crucial for its activity. Since these residues are conserved among fishes, but not among mammals, birds, or amphibians, the ability to penetrate cell membranes may be a unique characteristic of fish Ngb proteins. labels: #Globins'
b'Preliminary findings of various types of globin expressed in the respiratory bronchiolar and alveolar epithelium prompted us to compare the expression of erythropoietin (Epo) and its receptor (EpoR) in normal (healthy) human lung tissues with that in malignant lung tissues. The expression of Epo and EpoR was examined at the transcriptional and protein levels in normal and malignant lung tissues by reverse transcription-PCR, western blot, and immunohistochemical analyses. EpoR mRNA, but not Epo mRNA, was detected in all samples. In normal tissues, EpoR was detected in the mesothelium, chondrocytes, alveolar cells, vascular endothelial cells, smooth muscle fibers, macrophages, and neutrophils, while in malignant foci, the cancer cells of five malignant types showed various intensities of EpoR immunoreactivity. The pattern of staining of EpoR protein was generally stronger in the malignant tissues than in the normal samples. Phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MAPK-ERK1/2) was frequently seen in malignant cells, but not in the normal tissues, with the exception of macrophages. Based on the expression of Epo and EpoR mRNA with the EpoR in almost all cell components in normal tissues, we suggest that the normal lung may produce various types of globin through the autocrine and/or paracrine role of Epo. When the Epo signal is upregulated by hypoxic stress, the normal cells appear to transform into malignant cells and proliferate through activated MAPK signaling. labels: #Globins'
b"Cultured neurons tolerate low H(2)O(2) concentrations (<or =50 microM) through the activity of constitutive antioxidant response elements (ARE). At H(2)O(2) levels (>or =100 microM), neurons increase expression of the gene encoding for inducible hemoxygenase-1 while superoxide dismutase-2 and catalase remain unchanged. Despite this adaptive response, the endogenous antioxidant systems are overwhelmed, leading to decreased viability. Elevating the neuronal cell content of human neuroglobin (Ngb) prior to insult with 100 or 200 microM H(2)O(2) enhanced cell viability and this resulted in a significant decrease in oxidative stress and an increase in the intracellular ATP concentration, whereas in parental cells exposed to the same H(2)O(2)-insult, oxidative stress and ATP increased and decreased, respectively. The mechanism for this increase in ATP involves sustained activation of the mito-K(ATP) channel and an increase in phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K)-mediated phosphorylation of Akt. Pharmacological inhibitors directed toward PI3K (wortmannin and LY294002), or the mito-K(ATP) channel (glybenclamide) inhibited the H(2)O(2)-mediated increase in ATP in cells overexpressing human Ngb and consequently cell viability decreased. Neuroglobin's ability to bolster the intracellular pool of ATP in response to added H(2)O(2) is central to the preservation of cytoskeletal integrity and cell viability. labels: #Globins"
b'BACKGROUND: The genome of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans contains more than 30 putative globin genes that all are transcribed. Although their translated amino acid sequences fit the globin fold, a variety of amino-acid substitutions and extensions generate a wide structural diversity among the putative globins. No information is available on the physicochemical properties and the in vivo expression.RESULTS: We expressed the globins in a bacterial system, characterized the purified proteins by optical and resonance Raman spectroscopy, measured the kinetics and equilibria of O2 binding and determined the crystal structure of GLB-1* (CysGH2 -->Ser mutant). Furthermore, we studied the expression patterns of glb-1 (ZK637.13) and glb-26 (T22C1.2) in the worms using green fluorescent protein technology and measured alterations of their transcript abundances under hypoxic conditions.GLB-1* displays the classical three-over-three alpha-helical sandwich of vertebrate globins, assembled in a homodimer associated through facing E- and F-helices. Within the heme pocket the dioxygen molecule is stabilized by a hydrogen bonded network including TyrB10 and GlnE7.GLB-1 exhibits high ligand affinity, which is, however, lower than in other globins with the same distal TyrB10-GlnE7 amino-acid pair. In the absence of external ligands, the heme ferrous iron of GLB-26 is strongly hexacoordinated with HisE7, which could explain its extremely low affinity for CO. This globin oxidizes instantly to the ferric form in the presence of oxygen and is therefore incapable of reversible oxygen binding.CONCLUSION: The presented data indicate that GLB-1 and GLB-26 belong to two functionally-different globin classes. labels: #Globins'
b"Neuroglobin has shown rich neuroprotective effects against cerebral hypoxia, and therefore has the potential to impact outcomes after traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, to date an association between genetic variation within the human neuroglobin (NGB) gene and recovery post-TBI has not been reported. The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between NGB genotypes and outcomes (as assessed by the Glasgow Outcome Scale [GOS], the Disability Rating Scale [DRS], and the Neurobehavioral Rating Scale-Revised [NRS-R]) after severe TBI. Genotyping using TaqMan allele discrimination for two tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (tSNPs) that represent the two haplotype blocks for NGB (rs3783988 and rs10133981) was completed on DNA obtained from 196 Caucasian patients recovering from severe TBI. Patients were dichotomized based on the presence of the variant allele for each tSNP. Chi-square and Fisher's exact tests were used to compare characteristics between groups. Multivariate linear regression was used to examine NGB tSNPs and recovery from severe TBI. Subjects with the TT genotype (wild-type) for rs3783988 were more likely to have better GOS and DRS scores at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months, while rs10133981 genotype was not significantly related to functional outcome. After controlling for age, gender, and Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score, those subjects with the rs3783988 TT genotype had more than a 2.65-times greater likelihood of better functional outcomes than individuals with genotypes harboring a variant allele. Data suggest that the haplotype block represented by rs3783988 in NGB appears to influence recovery after severe TBI. Represented within this haplotype block of NGB is the region that codes for the oxygen-binding portion of NGB. labels: #Globins"
b'The present study aimed at characterizing the anatomical and subcellular localization of cytoglobin (Cygb) and neuroglobin (Ngb) in the mouse brain by use of in situ hybridisation, immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. Cygb and Ngb were only found in distinct brain areas and often in the same areas. We found intense staining in the piriform cortex, amygdala, hypothalamus (medial preoptic area, supra chiasmatic nucleus, lateral hypothalamus (LH), ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus, and the arcuate nucleus, habenular nuclei, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDTg), pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg), locus coeruleus, nucleus of the solitary tract and the spinal trigeminal nucleus. In addition Cygb is found in the hippocampus, the reticular thalamic nucleus, and the dorsal raphe nucleus; Ngb is found in the sub parabrachial nucleus. Co-localization of Cygb and Ngb is mainly observed in the LDTg and PPTg. Cygb and Ngb were found in cytoplasm, along neurotubuli, in mitochondria and in the nucleus by use of immunoelectron microscopy. Most neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-positive neurons were found to co-localize Cygb, although not all nNOS neurones contain Cygb. Ngb co-localize with almost all orexin neurons in the LH. In conclusion the distribution of Cygb and Ngb seems much more restricted and coherent than previously reported. We believe other functions than pure oxygen buffers and neuroprotectants should be considered. The anatomical data indicate a role in NO signalling for Cygb and involvement in sleep-wake cycling for Cygb and Ngb. labels: #Globins'
b'The expression of neuroglobin (Ngb) and cytoglobin (Cygb), two recently discovered globins with a potential neuroprotective activity against hypoxia and oxidative stress, was investigated in the cerebellum of young rats (postnatal day 20) after being exposed to chronic mild carbon monoxide (CO) at 25 ppm during prenatal (group A), prenatal and postnatal (group B), the postnatal period only (group C), and air (group D). The expression of genes associated with hypoxia signaling pathways was also investigated in the rat cerebella by real-time RT-PCR after CO exposure. Ngb and Cygb mRNAs did not change in any CO-exposed group. Quantitative immunohistochemistry showed no significant change in Ngb protein; however, there was a significant increase of Cygb protein in rats from groups A, B, and C when compared with group D. In group B, genes related to the generation of reactive oxygen species (Nos2) and lipid metabolism (Apat2) were upregulated. In contrast, no changes were found in the expression of 8 genes typically upregulated by hypoxic conditions (Angptl4, Arnt2, Casp1, Crebbp, Hif1a, Hif3a, Mt3, or Vegfa) in any CO-exposed group, suggesting that hypoxia-related gene expression is not altered by this mild CO exposure. Cygb but not Ngb may protect cerebellar cells from the chronic presence of CO exposure during prenatal and postnatal development. labels: #Globins'
b'pH-induced unfolding and refolding of apo-neuroglobin (apo-Ngb) were investigated by UV, fluorescence, circular dichroism (CD) spectra and light scattering measurements. Results revealed that apo-Ngb became partially unfolded at around pH 5.0, with evidences from a red shift in the fluorescence spectra, a decrease in the far-UV CD and a sharp peak in the light scattering intensity. Further lowering of the pH reversed these effects, suggesting that apo-Ngb folds back to a compact state. At pH 2.0, the apo-Ngb forms a folding intermediate known as molten globule (MG), which is possessed of native-like secondary structure and almost complete loss of tertiary structure. Based on these results, the acid-induced denaturation pathway of apo-Ngb can be illustrated from the native state (N), via a partially unfolded state (U(A)) to the molten globule state (MG). labels: #Globins'
b'In this chapter, we describe numerous methods to extract RNA, DNA, and protein from tissue, represented by kidney transplant biopsies, and from peripheral blood cells collected at various clinical sites. Gene expression profiling and SNP-based genome-wide association studies are done using various microarray platforms. In addition, protocols that enable simultaneous protein purification from these clinical samples, enable additional strategies for understanding of the molecular processes involved in organ transplantation, immunosuppressive drug regimens, and the elements determining allograft success and failure. Successfully establishing a multicenter clinical study was essential to meet our objectives for subject enrollment and transplant outcomes. This chapter focuses on our experience setting up and coordinating clinical sample collection from multiple transplant centers for the purpose of microarray analysis. labels: #Globins'
b'The crystal structures of two pro-11S globulins namely: rapeseed procruciferin and pea prolegumin are presented here. We have extensively compared them with the other known structures of plant seed 11S and 7S globulins. In general, the disordered regions in the crystal structures among the 11S globulins correspond to their five variable regions. Variable region III of procruciferin is relatively short and is in a loop conformation. This region is highly disordered in other pro-11S globulin crystals. Local helical and strand variations also occur across the group despite general structure conservation. We showed how these variations may alter specific physicochemical, functional and physiological properties. Aliphatic hydrophobic residues on the molecular surface correlate well with Tm values of the globulins. We also considered other structural features that were reported to influence thermal stability but no definite conclusion was drawn since each factor has additive or subtractive effect. Comparison between proA3B4 and mature A3B4 revealed an increase in r.m.s.d. values near variable regions II and IV. Both regions are on the IE face. Secondary structure based alignment of 11S and 7S globulins revealed 16 identical residues. Based on proA3B4 sequence, Pro60, Gly128, Phe163, Phe208, Leu213, Leu227, Ile237, Pro382, Val404, Pro425 and Val 466 are involved in trimer formation and stabilization. Gly28, Gly74, Asp135, Gly349 and Gly397 are involved in correct globular folding. labels: #Globins'
b'The distribution of neuroglobin (Ngb) was investigated in the normal rat cochlea using immunohistochemistry and non-radioactive insitu hybridization. We also determined whether chronic, very mild CO exposure at 25ppm in air over the gestational and postnatal period alters the expression of Ngb. Pregnant rats were exposed chronically to CO from gestational days 5-20. Four groups were made as follows: prenatal exposure to CO only; prenatal exposure to CO followed by postnatal exposure from postnatal days (5) P5 to P20; rat pups were exposed to CO from P5 to P20; controls (air without CO). In normal adult rats and control group pups, Ngb was found in spiral ganglia neurons, fibrocytes of the spiral ligament, and supporting cells of the organ of Corti. Ngb was not present in the stria vascularis and the inner and outer hair cells. At P20 Ngb immunoreactivity and transcript expression decreased in spiral ganglia neurons and the spiral ligament in the prenatal and pre- and postnatal groups. This decrease was not observed in the postnatal group. Ngb-IR did not decrease in supporting cells in any CO group. Cytochrome-C immunoreactivity followed Ngb distribution in normal controls and CO treated groups. A decrease in Ngb in spiral ganglia neurons and rat spiral ligament, but not in supporting cells, following CO exposure supports the idea that chronic, mild exposure to CO may create a vulnerable cellular environment predisposed to adverse cochlear development. labels: #Globins'
b'The present study describes a rapid and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method for the detection of human globin chains in blood. The method involves direct injection of globin chains which prepared by a standard method onto a micro bondapack C18 reversed-phase column (7.8 mm I.D.) with UV detection at 280 nm. The detection limit of hemoglobin (Hb) was 0.1 \xce\xbcg, which is equivalent to about 1 ml of fresh whole blood. We report here the rapid procedure for globin chain analysis. The present method will be useful for the determination of globin chain analysis in clinical laboratories, as well as in thalassemia and sickle cell disease patients. labels: #Globins'
b'Spi-1/PU.1 oncogene is downregulated as proerythroblasts undergo terminal differentiation. Insertion of the Friend virus upstream of the Spi-1/PU.1 locus leads to the constitutive upregulation of Spi-1/PU.1, and a subsequent block in the differentiation of the affected erythroblasts. We have shown that sustained overexpression of Spi-1/PU.1 also inhibits the erythroid splicing of protein 4.1R exon 16, irrespective of chemical induction of differentiation. Here, we show a positive feedback loop that couples constitutive phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (AKT) signaling to high expression of Spi-1/PU.1 in Friend erythroleukemia cells. Inhibition of PI3K/AKT results in Spi-1/PU.1 downregulation in a stepwise manner and induces cell differentiation. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays further supported the positive autoregulatory effect of Spi-1/PU.1. Mutational analysis indicated that Ser41, but not Ser148, is necessary for Spi-1/PU.1-mediated repression of hemoglobin expression, whereas both Ser residues are required for Spi-1/PU.1 inhibition of the erythroid splicing event. We further show that inhibition of the erythroid transcriptional and splicing events are strictly dependent on distinct Spi-1/PU.1 phosphorylation modifications rather than Spi-1/PU.1 expression level per se. Our data further support the fact that Spi-1/PU.1 inhibits 4.1R erythroid splicing through two different pathways, and bring new insights into the extracellular signal impact triggered by erythropoietin on late erythroid regulatory program, including pre-mRNA splicing. labels: #Globins'
b'Neuroglobin (Ngb) is a myoglobin-like (Mb) heme-globin, belonging the globin family located only in neuronal tissue of the central nervous system. Ngb has been shown to be upregulated in and to protect neurons from hypoxic and ischemic injury, but the function of Ngb-in particular how Ngb may protect neurons-remains largely elusive. We have previously described the localization of Ngb in the rat brain and found it to be expressed in areas primarily involved in sleep/wake, circadian, and food regulation. The present study was undertaken, using immunohistochemistry, to characterize the localization, colocalization, innervation, and response to light of Ngb-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Our results demonstrate that the majority of Ngb-expressing neurons in the SCN belong to a cell group not previously characterized by neurotransmitter content; only a small portion was found to co-store GRP in the ventral SCN. Furthermore, some Ngb-containing neurons were responsive to light stimulation at late night evaluated by the induction of cFOS and only a few cells were found to express the core clock gene PER1 during the 24-hour light/dark cycle. The Ngb-containing cells received input from neuropeptide Y (NPY)-containing nerve fibers of the geniticulo-hypothalamic tract (GHT), whereas no direct input from the eye or the midbrain raphe system was demonstrated. The results indicate that the Ngb could be involved in both photic and nonphotic entrainment via input from the GHT. labels: #Globins'
b'Dynamic light scattering (DLS) is a technique capable of determining the hydrodynamic radius of proteins. From this parameter, a molecular weight can be assessed provided that an appropriate calibration curve is available. To this goal, a globin-based calibration curve was used to determine the polymerization state of a recombinant hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier and to assess the equivalent molecular weight of hemoglobins conjugated with polyethylene glycol molecules. The good agreement between DLS values and those obtained from gel filtration chromatography is a consequence of the high similarity in structure, shape, and density within the globin superfamily. Moreover, globins and heme proteins in general share similar spectroscopic properties, thereby reducing possible systematic errors associated with the absorption of the probe radiation by the chromophore. labels: #Globins'
b'Modeling the interplay between mutation and selection at the molecular level is key to evolutionary studies. To this end, codon-based evolutionary models have been proposed as pertinent means of studying long-range evolutionary patterns and are widely used. However, these approaches have not yet consolidated results from amino acid level phylogenetic studies showing that selection acting on proteins displays strong site-specific effects, which translate into heterogeneous amino acid propensities across the columns of alignments; related codon-level studies have instead focused on either modeling a single selective context for all codon columns, or a separate selective context for each codon column, with the former strategy deemed too simplistic and the latter deemed overparameterized. Here, we integrate recent developments in nonparametric statistical approaches to propose a probabilistic model that accounts for the heterogeneity of amino acid fitness profiles across the coding positions of a gene. We apply the model to a dozen real protein-coding gene alignments and find it to produce biologically plausible inferences, for instance, as pertaining to site-specific amino acid constraints, as well as distributions of scaled selection coefficients. In their account of mutational features as well as the heterogeneous regimes of selection at the amino acid level, the modeling approaches studied here can form a backdrop for several extensions, accounting for other selective features, for variable population size, or for subtleties of mutational features, all with parameterizations couched within population-genetic theory. labels: #Globins'
b'Klebsiella pneumoniae is a significant cause of nosocomial pneumonia and an alarming pathogen owing to the recent isolation of multidrug resistant strains. Understanding of immune responses orchestrating K. pneumoniae clearance by the host is of utmost importance. Here we show that type I interferon (IFN) signaling protects against lung infection with K. pneumoniae by launching bacterial growth-controlling interactions between alveolar macrophages and natural killer (NK) cells. Type I IFNs are important but disparate and incompletely understood regulators of defense against bacterial infections. Type I IFN receptor 1 (Ifnar1)-deficient mice infected with K. pneumoniae failed to activate NK cell-derived IFN-\xce\xb3 production. IFN-\xce\xb3 was required for bactericidal action and the production of the NK cell response-amplifying IL-12 and CXCL10 by alveolar macrophages. Bacterial clearance and NK cell IFN-\xce\xb3 were rescued in Ifnar1-deficient hosts by Ifnar1-proficient NK cells. Consistently, type I IFN signaling in myeloid cells including alveolar macrophages, monocytes and neutrophils was dispensable for host defense and IFN-\xce\xb3 activation. The failure of Ifnar1-deficient hosts to initiate a defense-promoting crosstalk between alveolar macrophages and NK cell was circumvented by administration of exogenous IFN-\xce\xb3 which restored endogenous IFN-\xce\xb3 production and restricted bacterial growth. These data identify NK cell-intrinsic type I IFN signaling as essential driver of K. pneumoniae clearance, and reveal specific targets for future therapeutic exploitations. labels: #Animals#Drug Resistance, Multiple#Interferon Type I#Killer Cells, Natural#Klebsiella Infections#Klebsiella pneumoniae#Macrophages, Alveolar#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Receptor Cross-Talk#Respiratory Tract Infections#Signal Transduction'
b"BACKGROUND: The Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (D:A:D) study has developed predictive risk scores for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD, defined as confirmed estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] \xe2\x89\xa4 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) events in HIV-positive people. We hypothesized that participants in D:A:D at high (>5%) predicted risk for both CVD and CKD would be at even greater risk for CVD and CKD events.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We included all participants with complete risk factor (covariate) data, baseline eGFR>60 ml/min/1.73 m2, and a confirmed (>3 months apart) eGFR<60 ml/min/1.73 m2 thereafter to calculate CVD and CKD risk scores. We calculated CVD and CKD event rates by predicted 5-year CVD and CKD risk groups (\xe2\x89\xa41%,>1%-5%,>5%) and fitted Poisson models to assess whether CVD and CKD risk group effects were multiplicative. A total of 27,215 participants contributed 202,034 person-years of follow-up: 74% male, median (IQR) age 42 (36, 49) years, median (IQR) baseline year of follow-up 2005 (2004, 2008). D:A:D risk equations predicted 3,560 (13.1%) participants at high CVD risk, 4,996 (18.4%) participants at high CKD risk, and 1,585 (5.8%) participants at both high CKD and high CVD risk. CVD and CKD event rates by predicted risk group were multiplicative. Participants at high CVD risk had a 5.63-fold (95% CI 4.47, 7.09, p<0.001) increase in CKD events compared to those at low risk; participants at high CKD risk had a 1.31-fold (95% CI 1.09, 1.56, p = 0.005) increase in CVD events compared to those at low risk. Participants' CVD and CKD risk groups had multiplicative predictive effects, with no evidence of an interaction (p = 0.329 and p = 0.291 for CKD and CVD, respectively). The main study limitation is the difference in the ascertainment of the clinically defined CVD endpoints and the laboratory-defined CKD endpoints.CONCLUSIONS: We found that people at high predicted risk for both CVD and CKD have substantially greater risks for both CVD and CKD events compared with those at low predicted risk for both outcomes, and compared to those at high predicted risk for only CVD or CKD events. This suggests that CVD and CKD risk in HIV-positive persons should be assessed together. The results further encourage clinicians to prioritise addressing modifiable risks for CVD and CKD in HIV-positive people. labels: #Adult#Cardiovascular Diseases#Female#Glomerular Filtration Rate#HIV Seropositivity#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Prospective Studies#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Risk Factors"
b'BACKGROUND: It is unknown if extremely early initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) may lead to long-term ART-free HIV remission or cure. As a result, we studied 2 individuals recruited from a pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) program who started prophylactic ART an estimated 10 days (Participant A; 54-year-old male) and 12 days (Participant B; 31-year-old male) after infection with peak plasma HIV RNA of 220 copies/mL and 3,343 copies/mL, respectively. Extensive testing of blood and tissue for HIV persistence was performed, and PrEP Participant A underwent analytical treatment interruption (ATI) following 32 weeks of continuous ART.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Colorectal and lymph node tissues, bone marrow, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), plasma, and very large numbers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained longitudinally from both participants and were studied for HIV persistence in several laboratories using molecular and culture-based detection methods, including a murine viral outgrowth assay (mVOA). Both participants initiated PrEP with tenofovir/emtricitabine during very early Fiebig stage I (detectable plasma HIV-1 RNA, antibody negative) followed by 4-drug ART intensification. Following peak viral loads, both participants experienced full suppression of HIV-1 plasma viremia. Over the following 2 years, no further HIV could be detected in blood or tissue from PrEP Participant A despite extensive sampling from ileum, rectum, lymph nodes, bone marrow, CSF, circulating CD4+ T cell subsets, and plasma. No HIV was detected from tissues obtained from PrEP Participant B, but low-level HIV RNA or DNA was intermittently detected from various CD4+ T cell subsets. Over 500 million CD4+ T cells were assayed from both participants in a humanized mouse outgrowth assay. Three of 8 mice infused with CD4+ T cells from PrEP Participant B developed viremia (50 million input cells/surviving mouse), but only 1 of 10 mice infused with CD4+ T cells from PrEP Participant A (53 million input cells/mouse) experienced very low level viremia (201 copies/mL); sequence confirmation was unsuccessful. PrEP Participant A stopped ART and remained aviremic for 7.4 months, rebounding with HIV RNA of 36 copies/mL that rose to 59,805 copies/mL 6 days later. ART was restarted promptly. Rebound plasma HIV sequences were identical to those obtained during acute infection by single-genome sequencing. Mathematical modeling predicted that the latent reservoir size was approximately 200 cells prior to ATI and that only around 1% of individuals with a similar HIV burden may achieve lifelong ART-free remission. Furthermore, we observed that lymphocytes expressing the tumor marker CD30 increased in frequency weeks to months prior to detectable HIV-1 RNA in plasma. This study was limited by the small sample size, which was a result of the rarity of individuals presenting during hyperacute infection.CONCLUSIONS: We report HIV relapse despite initiation of ART at one of the earliest stages of acute HIV infection possible. Near complete or complete loss of detectable HIV in blood and tissues did not lead to indefinite ART-free HIV remission. However, the small numbers of latently infected cells in individuals treated during hyperacute infection may be associated with prolonged ART-free remission. labels: #Adult#Anti-Retroviral Agents#Biomarkers#Flow Cytometry#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Prospective Studies#Recurrence#Secondary Prevention#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Gaps in the HIV care continuum contribute to poor health outcomes and increase HIV transmission. A combination of interventions targeting multiple steps in the continuum is needed to achieve the full beneficial impact of HIV treatment.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Link4Health, a cluster-randomized controlled trial, evaluated the effectiveness of a combination intervention strategy (CIS) versus the standard of care (SOC) on the primary outcome of linkage to care within 1 month plus retention in care at 12 months after HIV-positive testing. Ten clusters of HIV clinics in Swaziland were randomized 1:1 to CIS versus SOC. The CIS included point-of-care CD4+ testing at the time of an HIV-positive test, accelerated antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation for treatment-eligible participants, mobile phone appointment reminders, health educational packages, and noncash financial incentives. Secondary outcomes included each component of the primary outcome, mean time to linkage, assessment for ART eligibility, ART initiation and time to ART initiation, viral suppression defined as HIV-1 RNA<1,000 copies/mL at 12 months after HIV testing among patients on ART \xe2\x89\xa56 months, and loss to follow-up and death at 12 months after HIV testing. A total of 2,197 adults aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years, newly tested HIV positive, were enrolled from 19 August 2013 to 21 November 2014 (1,096 CIS arm; 1,101 SOC arm) and followed for 12 months. The median participant age was 31 years (IQR 26-39), and 59% were women. In an intention-to-treat analysis, 64% (705/1,096) of participants at the CIS sites achieved the primary outcome versus 43% (477/1,101) at the SOC sites (adjusted relative risk [RR] 1.52, 95% CI 1.19-1.96, p = 0.002). Participants in the CIS arm versus the SOC arm had the following secondary outcomes: linkage to care regardless of retention at 12 months (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.97-1.21, p = 0.13), mean time to linkage (2.5 days versus 7.5 days, p = 0.189), retention in care at 12 months regardless of time to linkage (RR 1.48, 95% CI 1.18-1.86, p = 0.002), assessment for ART eligibility (RR 1.20, 95% CI 1.07-1.34, p = 0.004), ART initiation (RR 1.16, 95% CI 0.96-1.40, p = 0.12), mean time to ART initiation from time of HIV testing (7 days versus 14 days, p<0.001), viral suppression among those on ART for \xe2\x89\xa56 months (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.88-1.07, p = 0.55), loss to follow-up at 12 months after HIV testing (RR 0.56, 95% CI 0.40-0.79, p = 0.002), and death (N = 78) within 12 months of HIV testing (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.46-1.35, p = 0.41). Limitations of this study include a small number of clusters and the inability to evaluate the incremental effectiveness of individual components of the combination strategy.CONCLUSIONS: A combination strategy inclusive of 5 evidence-based interventions aimed at multiple steps in the HIV care continuum was associated with significant increase in linkage to care plus 12-month retention. This strategy offers promise of enhanced outcomes for HIV-positive patients.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01904994. labels: #Adult#CD4 Lymphocyte Count#Clinical Protocols#Cluster Analysis#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Male#Medication Adherence#Patient Compliance#Program Evaluation#Swaziland'
b'Reassortment, which is the exchange of genome sequence between viruses co-infecting a host cell, plays an important role in the evolution of segmented viruses. In the human influenza virus, reassortment happens most frequently between co-existing variants within the same lineage. This process breaks genetic linkage and fitness correlations between viral genome segments, but the resulting net effect on viral fitness has remained unclear. In this paper, we determine rate and average selective effect of reassortment processes in the human influenza lineage A/H3N2. For the surface proteins hemagglutinin and neuraminidase, reassortant variants with a mean distance of at least 3 nucleotides to their parent strains get established at a rate of about 10-2 in units of the neutral point mutation rate. Our inference is based on a new method to map reassortment events from joint genealogies of multiple genome segments, which is tested by extensive simulations. We show that intra-lineage reassortment processes are, on average, under substantial negative selection that increases in strength with increasing sequence distance between the parent strains. The deleterious effects of reassortment manifest themselves in two ways: there are fewer reassortment events than expected from a null model of neutral reassortment, and reassortant strains have fewer descendants than their non-reassortant counterparts. Our results suggest that influenza evolves under ubiquitous epistasis across proteins, which produces fitness barriers against reassortment even between co-circulating strains within one lineage. labels: #Evolution, Molecular#Genome, Viral#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H3N2 Subtype#Influenza, Human#Reassortant Viruses'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To investigate whether symptomatic treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is non-inferior to antibiotics in the treatment of uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection (UTI) in women, thus offering an opportunity to reduce antibiotic use in ambulatory care.Design\xc2\xa0Randomised, double blind, non-inferiority trial.Setting\xc2\xa017 general practices in Switzerland.Participants\xc2\xa0253 women with uncomplicated lower UTI were randomly assigned 1:1 to symptomatic treatment with the NSAID diclofenac (n=133) or antibiotic treatment with norfloxacin (n=120). The randomisation sequence was computer generated, stratified by practice, blocked, and concealed using sealed, sequentially numbered drug containers.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcome was resolution of symptoms at day 3 (72 hours after randomisation and 12 hours after intake of the last study drug). The prespecified principal secondary outcome was the use of any antibiotic (including norfloxacin and fosfomycin as trial drugs) up to day 30. Analysis was by intention to treat.Results\xc2\xa072/133 (54%) women assigned to diclofenac and 96/120 (80%) assigned to norfloxacin experienced symptom resolution at day 3 (risk difference 27%, 95% confidence interval 15% to 38%, P=0.98 for non-inferiority, P<0.001 for superiority). The median time until resolution of symptoms was four days in the diclofenac group and two days in the norfloxacin group. A total of 82 (62%) women in the diclofenac group and 118 (98%) in the norfloxacin group used antibiotics up to day 30 (risk difference 37%, 28% to 46%, P<0.001 for superiority). Six women in the diclofenac group (5%) but none in the norfloxacin group received a clinical diagnosis of pyelonephritis (P=0.03).Conclusion\xc2\xa0Diclofenac is inferior to norfloxacin for symptom relief of UTI and is likely to be associated with an increased risk of pyelonephritis, even though it reduces antibiotic use in women with uncomplicated lower UTI.Trial registration\xc2\xa0ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01039545. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Ambulatory Care#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal#Double-Blind Method#Female#General Practice#Humans#Middle Aged#Norfloxacin#Switzerland#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To evaluate how selection of patients for high sensitivity cardiac troponin testing affects the diagnosis of myocardial infarction across different healthcare settings.Design\xc2\xa0Prospective study of three independent consecutive patient populations presenting to emergency departments.Setting\xc2\xa0Secondary and tertiary care hospitals in the United Kingdom and United States.Participants\xc2\xa0High sensitivity cardiac troponin I concentrations were measured in 8500 consecutive patients presenting to emergency departments: unselected patients in the UK (n=1054) and two selected populations of patients in whom troponin testing was requested by the attending clinician in the UK (n=5815) and the US (n=1631). The final diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 myocardial infarction or myocardial injury was independently adjudicated.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0Positive predictive value of an elevated cardiac troponin concentration for a diagnosis of type 1 myocardial infarction.Results\xc2\xa0Cardiac troponin concentrations were elevated in 13.7% (144/1054) of unselected patients, with a prevalence of 1.6% (17/1054) for type 1 myocardial infarction and a positive predictive value of 11.8% (95% confidence interval 7.0% to 18.2%). In selected patients, in whom troponin testing was guided by the attending clinician, the prevalence and positive predictive value were 14.5% (843/5815) and 59.7% (57.0% to 62.2%) in the UK and 4.2% (68/1631) and 16.4% (13.0% to 20.3%) in the US. Across both selected patient populations, the positive predictive value was highest in patients with chest pain, with ischaemia on the electrocardiogram, and with a history of ischaemic heart disease.Conclusions\xc2\xa0When high sensitivity cardiac troponin testing is performed widely or without previous clinical assessment, elevated troponin concentrations are common and predominantly reflect myocardial injury rather than myocardial infarction. These observations highlight how selection of patients for cardiac troponin testing varies across healthcare settings and markedly influences the positive predictive value for a diagnosis of myocardial infarction. labels: #Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Patient Selection#Predictive Value of Tests#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Troponin I#United Kingdom#United States'
b'Purpose: To evaluate macular and peripapillary vessel perfusion density (VD) in glaucoma suspects (GS) and glaucoma patients; to correlate ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses with macular and peripapillary VD; and to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the structural and vascular parameters.Methods: A consecutive series of GS, glaucoma patients, and healthy subjects was prospectively recruited from July 1, 2016, to January 31, 2017. All subjects underwent standard automated perimetry, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), and 6 \xc3\x97 6-mm optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) centered on the fovea and optic nerve.Results: Forty controls, 40 GS, and 40 glaucoma patients were enrolled. Peripapillary RNFL, GCIPL, and macular RNFL thicknesses significantly decreased in the glaucoma group compared to controls and GS (P<0.01). Peripapillary VD in average and in the superior and inferior quadrants decreased in the glaucoma group (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001); conversely, macular VD was not statistically different across groups (P>0.05). At the peripapillary area, a correlation between RNFL thickness and VD was found; conversely, no statistically significant correlation was found between GCIPL thicknesses and macular VD (all P>0.05) in all groups. Peripapillary RNFL and GCIPL showed higher diagnostic capacity compared to peripapillary and macular VDs.Conclusions: Structural damage is evident both in the peripapillary and in macular areas. Vascular damage seems to be less prominent, as it was seen only for the glaucoma group and at the radial peripapillary plexus. Diagnostic abilities are excellent for structural variables, less so but still good for peripapillary VD, and poor for macular VD. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Macula Lutea#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Perfusion Imaging#Prospective Studies#Regional Blood Flow#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Field Tests'
b'Purpose: To analyze the presence of complex alleles of the ABCA4 gene in Brazilian patients with Stargardt disease and to assess the correlation with clinical features.Methods: This was an observational cross-sectional study. Patients with a diagnosis of Stargardt disease who presented three pathogenic variants of the ABCA4 gene or who had variants previously described as complex alleles were included. The relatives of these probands were evaluated in the segregation analysis. The patients were evaluated based on age at symptom onset and visual acuity, and the clinical characteristics were classified according to the findings observed on autofluorescence examination.Results: Among the 47 families analyzed, approximately 30% (14/47) presented complex alleles. The segregation analysis in 14 families with cases of Stargardt disease identified three novel complex alleles and one previously described complex allele. The known complex allele p.[Leu541Pro; Ala1038Val] was identified in two families. The novel complex alleles identified were p.[Leu541Pro; Arg1443His]in five families, p.[Ser1642Arg; Val1682_Val1686del] in seven families, and p.[Pro1761Arg; Arg2106Cys]in one family. Furthermore, four new variants (p.Lys22Asn, p.Asp915Asn, p.Glu1447Val, and p.Pro1761Arg) were identified in the second allele of the ABCA4 gene.Conclusions: Segregation analysis is important in order to confirm the molecular diagnosis of patients with Stargardt disease, given the frequency of complex alleles in the ABCA4 gene. The various pathogenic variation combinations observed in this study were associated with different phenotypes. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Alleles#Brazil#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#DNA Mutational Analysis#Electroretinography#Female#Genetic Association Studies#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Pedigree#Retina#Visual Acuity#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the contribution of fixational saccades toward fixation instability in strabismic monkeys.Methods: Binocular eye movements were measured as six experimental monkeys (five strabismic monkeys and one monkey with downbeat nystagmus) and one normal monkey fixated targets of two shapes (Optotype, Disk) and two sizes (0.5\xc2\xb0, 2\xc2\xb0) during monocular and binocular viewing. Fixational saccades were detected using an unsupervised clustering algorithm.Results: When compared with the normal monkey, amplitude and frequency of fixational saccades in both the viewing and nonviewing eye were greater in 3 of 5 strabismic monkeys (1-way ANOVA on ranks P<0.001; median amplitude in the normal monkey viewing eye: 0.33\xc2\xb0; experimental animals: median amplitude range 0.20-0.82\xc2\xb0; median frequency in the normal monkey: 1.35/s; experimental animals: median frequency range 1.3-3.7/s). Increase in frequency of fixational saccades was largely due to quick phases of ongoing nystagmus. Fixational saccade amplitude was increased significantly (3-way ANOVA; P<0.001) but by small magnitude depending on target shape and size (mean difference between disk and optotype targets = 0.02\xc2\xb0; mean difference between 2\xc2\xb0 and 0.5\xc2\xb0 targets = 0.1\xc2\xb0). Relationship between saccade amplitude and the Bivariate Contour Ellipse Area (BCEA) was nonlinear, showing saturation of saccade amplitude. Fixation instability in depth was significantly greater in strabismic monkeys (vergence BCEA: 0.63 deg2-2.15 deg2) compared with the normal animal (vergence BCEA: 0.15 deg2; P<0.001).Conclusions: Increased fixational instability in strabismic monkeys is only partially due to increased amplitude and more frequent fixational saccades. Target parameter effects on fixational saccades are similar to previous findings of target effects on BCEA. labels: #Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Fixation, Ocular#Macaca mulatta#Nystagmus, Pathologic#Saccades#Strabismus#Vision, Binocular'
b'Purpose: To establish a model of the retinal capillary circulation in pigs, which in many aspects is close to the human retina.Methods: Using high density confocal microscopy image stacks of immunolabeled porcine retinal whole mounts, microvessels close to the optic nerve head were traced in three dimensions. The direction of flow of individual capillaries was deduced from their arteriolar and/or venous connections.Results: From major arteries, second-order arteries traversed the nerve fiber layer and resolved exclusively into the superficial vascular plexus (SVP), which dichotomized the blood flow between radial peripapillary capillaries (RPCs) on one side and the intermediate (IVP) and deep vascular plexus (DVP) on the other. Each RPC was supplied by one or several capillaries from the SVP and drained to the IVP or DVP. The DVP was a mosaic of approximately 300 to 600 \xce\xbcm wide anastomotic watersheds, each drained by one or two venules connected to major veins. A presumptive direction of flow could be determined for>90% of capillaries. These results suggest a model of the capillary circulation in which the three microvessel layers are serially organized with RPCs are in parallel between the SVP and IVP or DVP.Conclusions: In the peripapillary retina of pigs, microvascular layers have a serial arrangement, with RPCs emerging from the SVP and draining to the IVP or DVP; hence, connected in parallel of this scheme. The bulk of flow, therefore, traverses the SVP and DVP successively. This organization contributes to the higher oxygen saturation in the SVP and RPCs than in the DVP. Physiopathologic implications of this model regarding retinal diseases are discussed. labels: #Animals#Capillaries#Fluorescein Angiography#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Microcirculation#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Biological#Optic Disk#Regional Blood Flow#Retinal Artery#Retinal Vein#Sus scrofa#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: Cromakalim prodrug 1 (CKLP1) is a water-soluble ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener that has shown ocular hypotensive properties in ex vivo and in vivo experimental models. To determine its mechanism of action, we assessed the effect of CKLP1 on aqueous humor dynamics and in combination therapy with existing ocular hypotensive agents.Methods: Outflow facility was assessed in C57BL/6 mice by ex vivo eye perfusions and by in vivo constant flow infusion following CKLP1 treatment. Human anterior segments with no trabecular meshwork were evaluated for effect on pressure following CKLP1 treatment. CKLP1 alone and in combination with latanoprost, timolol, and Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632 were evaluated for effect on intraocular pressure in C57BL/6 mice and Dutch-belted pigmented rabbits.Results: CKLP1 lowered episcleral venous pressure (control: 8.9 \xc2\xb1 0.1 mm Hg versus treated: 6.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 mm Hg, P<0.0001) but had no detectable effect on outflow facility, aqueous humor flow rate, or uveoscleral outflow. Treatment with CKLP1 in human anterior segments without the trabecular meshwork resulted in a 50% \xc2\xb1 9% decrease in pressure, suggesting an effect on the distal portion of the conventional outflow pathway. CKLP1 worked additively with latanoprost, timolol, and Y27632 to lower IOP, presumably owing to combined effects on different aspects of aqueous humor dynamics.Conclusions: CKLP1 lowered intraocular pressure by reducing episcleral venous pressure and lowering distal outflow resistance in the conventional outflow pathway. Owing to this unique mechanism of action, CKLP1 works in an additive manner to lower intraocular pressure with latanoprost, timolol, and Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632. labels: #Amides#Animals#Anterior Eye Segment#Antihypertensive Agents#Aqueous Humor#Cromakalim#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Middle Aged#Ophthalmic Solutions#Prodrugs#Prostaglandins F, Synthetic#Pyridines#Rabbits#Sclera#Timolol#Tonometry, Ocular#Venous Pressure'
b'INTRODUCTION: Transection of the rectum at the anorectal junction is required for proper resection in ulcerative colitis and restorative proctocolectomy. Achieving stapled transection at the pelvic floor is often challenging, particularly during laparoscopic proctectomy. Transanal mucosectomy and handsewn anastomosis are frequently used to achieve adequate resection. Rectal eversion provides an alternative for low anorectal transection and maintains the ability to perform stapled anastomosis.TECHNIQUE: The purpose of this article is to describe a technique for low anorectal transection. The work was conducted at tertiary care center by 2 colon and rectal surgeons on patients undergoing total proctocolectomy with creation of ileal pouch rectal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis. We measured the ability to achieve low stapled anastomosis.RESULTS: Very low transection was achieved, allowing for creation of IPAA without leaving significant rectal cuff. This study was limited because it is an early experience that was not performed in the setting of a scientific investigation. No sphincter or bowel functional data were obtained or evaluated.CONCLUSIONS: Rectal eversion technique provides an alternative to mucosectomy when low pelvic transection is difficult to achieve. See Video at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A441. labels: #Adult#Anastomosis, Surgical#Colitis, Ulcerative#Colonic Pouches#Humans#Ileostomy#Laparoscopy#Male#Proctocolectomy, Restorative#Rectum#Surgical Stapling'
b'The aim of this study is to evaluate the application and accuracy of polymer gels for determining electron dose distributions in the presence of small heterogeneities made of bone and air. Different cylindrical phantoms containing MAGIC (Methacrylic and Ascorbic acid in Gelatin Initiated by Copper) normoxic polymer gel were used under the slab phantoms during irradiation. MR images of the irradiated gel phantoms were obtained to determine their R2 (spin-spin) relaxation maps for conversion to absorbed dose. One- and 2-dimensional lateral dose profiles were acquired at depths of 1 and 4 cm for 8 and 15 MeV electron beams. The results were compared with the doses measured by a diode detector at the same positions. In addition, the dose distribution in the axial orientation was measured by the gel dosimeter. The slope and intercept for the R2 versus dose curve were 0.509 \xc2\xb1 0.002 Gy s and 4.581 \xc2\xb1 0.005 s, respectively. No significant variation in dose-R2 response was seen for the two electron energies within the applied dose ranges. The mean dose difference between the measured gel dose profiles was smaller than 3% compared to those measured by the diode detector. These results provide further demonstration that electron dose distributions are significantly altered in the presence of tissue inhomogeneities such as bone and air cavity and that MAGIC gel is a useful tool for 3-dimensional dose visualization and qualitative assessment of tissue inhomogeneity effects in electron beam dosimetry. labels: #Anisotropy#Electrons#Equipment Design#Equipment Failure Analysis#Gels#Polymers#Radiation Dosage#Radiometry#Reproducibility of Results#Scattering, Radiation#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'The pharmacokinetic equations of Pierson et al. describing the behavior of bromide in rat provide a general approach to the modeling of extracellular fluid (ECF). The movement of material into ECF spaces is rapid and is completely characterized by tissue volumes and vascular flow rates to and from a tissue, the volumes of the tissue, and the ECF associated with the tissue. Early-time measurements are needed to characterize ECF. Measurements of DTPA disappearance from plasma by Wedeking et al. are discussed as an example of such measurements. In any biokinetic model, the fastest transfer rates are not determinable with the usual datasets, and if determined empirically, these rates will have very large and highly correlated uncertainties, so particular values of these rates, even though the model fits the available data, are not significant. A pharmacokinetic front-end provides values for these fast rates. An example of such a front-end for a 200-g rat is given. labels: #Animals#Blood Flow Velocity#Computer Simulation#Extracellular Fluid#Kinetics#Metabolic Clearance Rate#Models, Biological#Organ Size#Radiopharmaceuticals#Rats#Tissue Distribution'
b"INTRODUCTION: Sub-Saharan Africa bears more than two-thirds of the worldwide burden of HIV; however, data among transgender women from the region are sparse. Transgender women across the world face significant vulnerability to HIV. This analysis aimed to assess HIV prevalence as well as psychosocial and behavioral drivers of HIV infection among transgender women compared with cisgender (non-transgender) men who have sex with men (cis-MSM) in 8 sub-Saharan African countries.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Respondent-driven sampling targeted cis-MSM for enrollment. Data collection took place at 14 sites across 8 countries: Burkina Faso (January-August 2013), C\xc3\xb4te d'Ivoire (March 2015-February 2016), The Gambia (July-December 2011), Lesotho (February-September 2014), Malawi (July 2011-March 2012), Senegal (February-November 2015), Swaziland (August-December 2011), and Togo (January-June 2013). Surveys gathered information on sexual orientation, gender identity, stigma, mental health, sexual behavior, and HIV testing. Rapid tests for HIV were conducted. Data were merged, and mixed effects logistic regression models were used to estimate relationships between gender identity and HIV infection. Among 4,586 participants assigned male sex at birth, 937 (20%) identified as transgender or female, and 3,649 were cis-MSM. The mean age of study participants was approximately 24 years, with no difference between transgender participants and cis-MSM. Compared to cis-MSM participants, transgender women were more likely to experience family exclusion (odds ratio [OR]1.75, 95% CI 1.42-2.16, p<0.001), rape (OR 1.95, 95% CI 1.63-2.36, p<0.001), and depressive symptoms (OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.12-1.52, p<0.001). Transgender women were more likely to report condomless receptive anal sex in the prior 12 months (OR 2.44, 95% CI 2.05-2.90, p<0.001) and to be currently living with HIV (OR 1.81, 95% CI 1.49-2.19, p<0.001). Overall HIV prevalence was 25% (235/926) in transgender women and 14% (505/3,594) in cis-MSM. When adjusted for age, condomless receptive anal sex, depression, interpersonal stigma, law enforcement stigma, and violence, and the interaction of gender with condomless receptive anal sex, the odds of HIV infection for transgender women were 2.2 times greater than the odds for cis-MSM (95% CI 1.65-2.87, p<0.001). Limitations of the study included sampling strategies tailored for cis-MSM and merging of datasets with non-identical survey instruments.CONCLUSIONS: In this study in sub-Saharan Africa, we found that HIV burden and stigma differed between transgender women and cis-MSM, indicating a need to address gender diversity within HIV research and programs. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Africa South of the Sahara#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#HIV Infections#Health Surveys#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sexual Behavior#Social Stigma#Transgender Persons"
b'In a Perspective, Wafaa El-Sadr and colleagues discuss tailored approaches to treatment and prevention of HIV infection. labels: #Anti-Retroviral Agents#Communicable Disease Control#Developing Countries#Female#Global Health#Goals#HIV Infections#Humans#Male'
b'BACKGROUND: Retention in care is an essential component of meeting the UNAIDS "90-90-90" HIV treatment targets. In Khayelitsha township (population ~500,000) in Cape Town, South Africa, more than 50,000 patients have received antiretroviral therapy (ART) since the inception of this public-sector program in 2001. Disengagement from care remains an important challenge. We sought to determine the incidence of and risk factors associated with disengagement from care during 2013-2014 and outcomes for those who disengaged.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of all patients \xe2\x89\xa510 years of age who visited 1 of the 13 Khayelitsha ART clinics from 2013-2014 regardless of the date they initiated ART. We described the cumulative incidence of first disengagement (>180 days not attending clinic) between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2014 using competing risks methods, enabling us to estimate disengagement incidence up to 10 years after ART initiation. We also described risk factors for disengagement based on a Cox proportional hazards model, using multiple imputation for missing data. We ascertained outcomes (death, return to care, hospital admission, other hospital contact, alive but not in care, no information) after disengagement until 30 June 2015 using province-wide health databases and the National Death Registry. Of 39,884 patients meeting our eligibility criteria, the median time on ART to 31 December 2014 was 33.6 months (IQR 12.4-63.2). Of the total study cohort, 592 (1.5%) died in the study period, 1,231 (3.1%) formally transferred out, 987 (2.5%) were silent transfers and visited another Western Cape province clinic within 180 days, 9,005 (22.6%) disengaged, and 28,069 (70.4%) remained in care. Cumulative incidence of disengagement from care was estimated to be 25.1% by 2 years and 50.3% by 5 years on ART. Key factors associated with disengagement (age, male sex, pregnancy at ART start [HR 1.58, 95% CI 1.47-1.69], most recent CD4 count) and retention (ART club membership, baseline CD4) after adjustment were similar to those found in previous studies; however, notably, the higher hazard of disengagement soon after starting ART was no longer present after adjusting for these risk factors. Of the 9,005 who disengaged, the 2 most common initial outcomes were return to ART care after 180 days (33%; n = 2,976) and being alive but not in care in the Western Cape (25%; n = 2,255). After disengagement, a total of 1,459 (16%) patients were hospitalized and 237 (3%) died. The median follow-up from date of disengagement to 30 June 2015 was 16.7 months (IQR 11-22.4). As we included only patient follow-up from 2013-2014 by design in order to maximize the generalizability of our findings to current programs, this limited our ability to more fully describe temporal trends in first disengagement.CONCLUSIONS: Twenty-three percent of ART patients in the large cohort of Khayelitsha, one of the oldest public-sector ART programs in South Africa, disengaged from care at least once in a contemporary 2-year period. Fifty-eight percent of these patients either subsequently returned to care (some "silently") or remained alive without hospitalization, suggesting that many who are considered "lost" actually return to care, and that misclassification of "lost" patients is likely common in similar urban populations. A challenge to meeting ART retention targets is developing, testing, and implementing program designs to target mobile populations and retain them in lifelong care. This should be guided by risk factors for disengagement and improving interlinkage of routine information systems to better support patient care across complex care platforms. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Anti-Retroviral Agents#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Incidence#Male#Medication Adherence#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#South Africa'
b'BACKGROUND: Illness-related costs for patients with tuberculosis (TB) \xe2\x89\xa520% of pre-illness annual household income predict adverse treatment outcomes and have been termed "catastrophic." Social protection initiatives, including cash transfers, are endorsed to help prevent catastrophic costs. With this aim, cash transfers may either be provided to defray TB-related costs of households with a confirmed TB diagnosis (termed a "TB-specific" approach); or to increase income of households with high TB risk to strengthen their economic resilience (termed a "TB-sensitive" approach). The impact of cash transfers provided with each of these approaches might vary. We undertook an economic modelling study from the patient perspective to compare the potential of these 2 cash transfer approaches to prevent catastrophic costs.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Model inputs for 7 low- and middle-income countries (Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Ghana, Mexico, Tanzania, and Yemen) were retrieved by literature review and included countries\' mean patient TB-related costs, mean household income, mean cash transfers, and estimated TB-specific and TB-sensitive target populations. Analyses were completed for drug-susceptible (DS) TB-related costs in all 7 out of 7 countries, and additionally for drug-resistant (DR) TB-related costs in 1 of the 7 countries with available data. All cost data were reported in 2013 international dollars ($). The target population for TB-specific cash transfers was poor households with a confirmed TB diagnosis, and for TB-sensitive cash transfers was poor households already targeted by countries\' established poverty-reduction cash transfer programme. Cash transfers offered in countries, unrelated to TB, ranged from $217 to $1,091/year/household. Before cash transfers, DS TB-related costs were catastrophic in 6 out of 7 countries. If cash transfers were provided with a TB-specific approach, alone they would be insufficient to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs in 4 out of 6 countries, and when increased enough to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs would require a budget between $3.8 million (95% CI: $3.8 million-$3.8 million) and $75 million (95% CI: $50 million-$100 million) per country. If instead cash transfers were provided with a TB-sensitive approach, alone they would be insufficient to prevent DS TB-related catastrophic costs in any of the 6 countries, and when increased enough to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs would require a budget between $298 million (95% CI: $219 million-$378 million) and $165,367 million (95% CI: $134,085 million-$196,425 million) per country. DR TB-related costs were catastrophic before and after TB-specific or TB-sensitive cash transfers in 1 out of 1 countries. Sensitivity analyses showed our findings to be robust to imputation of missing TB-related cost components, and use of 10% or 30% instead of 20% as the threshold for measuring catastrophic costs. Key limitations were using national average data and not considering other health and social benefits of cash transfers.CONCLUSIONS: A TB-sensitive cash transfer approach to increase all poor households\' income may have broad benefits by reducing poverty, but is unlikely to be as effective or affordable for preventing TB catastrophic costs as a TB-specific cash transfer approach to defray TB-related costs only in poor households with a confirmed TB diagnosis. Preventing DR TB-related catastrophic costs will require considerable additional investment whether a TB-sensitive or a TB-specific cash transfer approach is used. labels: #Antitubercular Agents#Developing Countries#Health Care Costs#Humans#Income#Models, Economic#Poverty Areas#Socioeconomic Factors#Tuberculosis#Vulnerable Populations'
b'Driven by oncogenic signaling, glutamine addiction exhibited by cancer cells often leads to severe glutamine depletion in solid tumors. Despite this nutritional environment that tumor cells often experience, the effect of glutamine deficiency on cellular responses to DNA damage and chemotherapeutic treatment remains unclear. Here, we show that glutamine deficiency, through the reduction of alpha-ketoglutarate, inhibits the AlkB homolog (ALKBH) enzymes activity and induces DNA alkylation damage. As a result, glutamine deprivation or glutaminase inhibitor treatment triggers DNA damage accumulation independent of cell death. In addition, low glutamine-induced DNA damage is abolished in ALKBH deficient cells. Importantly, we show that glutaminase inhibitors, 6-Diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine (DON) or CB-839, hypersensitize cancer cells to alkylating agents both in vitro and in vivo. Together, the crosstalk between glutamine metabolism and the DNA repair pathway identified in this study highlights a potential role of metabolic stress in genomic instability and therapeutic response in cancer. labels: #AlkB Enzymes#AlkB Homolog 3, Alpha-Ketoglutarate-Dependent Dioxygenase#Alkylation#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#DNA Damage#Enzyme Inhibitors#Glutaminase#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Nude#Neoplasm Proteins#Neoplasms#RNA Interference#Random Allocation#Tumor Burden#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Objectives\xc2\xa0To revise an existing three-talk model for learning how to achieve shared decision making, and to consult with relevant stakeholders to update and obtain wider engagement.Design\xc2\xa0Multistage consultation process.Setting\xc2\xa0Key informant group, communities of interest, and survey of clinical specialties.Participants\xc2\xa019 key informants, 153 member responses from multiple communities of interest, and 316 responses to an online survey from medically qualified clinicians from six specialties.Results\xc2\xa0After extended consultation over three iterations, we revised the three-talk model by making changes to one talk category, adding the need to elicit patient goals, providing a clear set of tasks for each talk category, and adding suggested scripts to illustrate each step. A new three-talk model of shared decision making is proposed, based on "team talk," "option talk," and "decision talk," to depict a process of collaboration and deliberation. Team talk places emphasis on the need to provide support to patients when they are made aware of choices, and to elicit their goals as a means of guiding decision making processes. Option talk refers to the task of comparing alternatives, using risk communication principles. Decision talk refers to the task of arriving at decisions that reflect the informed preferences of patients, guided by the experience and expertise of health professionals.Conclusions\xc2\xa0The revised three-talk model of shared decision making depicts conversational steps, initiated by providing support when introducing options, followed by strategies to compare and discuss trade-offs, before deliberation based on informed preferences. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Communication#Decision Making#Humans#Models, Theoretical#Physician-Patient Relations#Referral and Consultation'
b'Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare type of cancer which is an increasingly discernible health threat. The disease is usually very difficult in diagnosis and various treatment modalities are typically not effective. Cholangiocarcinoma is a complex and very heterogeneous malignancy characterized by tumor location, different risk factors, molecular profiling, and prognosis. Cancer cell lines represent an important tool for investigation in various aspects of tumor biology and molecular therapeutics. We established two cell lines, KKU-452 and KKU-023, which were derived from patients residing in the endemic area of liver fluke infection in Thailand. Both of tumor tissues have gross pathology of perihilar and intrahepatic mass-forming cholangiocarcinoma. Two cell lines were characterized for their biological, molecular and genetic properties. KKU-452 and KKU-023 cells are both adherent cells with epithelium morphology, but have some differences in their growth pattern (a doubling time of 17.9 vs 34.8 h, respectively) and the expression of epithelial bile duct markers, CK7 and CK19. Cytogenetic analysis of KKU-452 and KKU-023 cells revealed their highly complex karyotypes; hypertriploid and hypotetraploid, respectively, with multiple chromosomal aberrations. Both cell lines showed mutations in p53 but not in KRAS. KKU-452 showed a very rapid migration and invasion properties in concert with low expression of E-cadherin and high expression of N-cadherin, whereas KKU-023 showed opposite characters. KKU-023, but not KKU-452, showed in vivo tumorigenicity in xenografted nude mice. Those two established cholangiocarcinoma cell lines with unique characters may be valuable for better understanding the process of carcinogenesis and developing new therapeutics for the patients. labels: #Animals#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Separation#Cholangiocarcinoma#Endemic Diseases#Fascioliasis#Female#Heterografts#Humans#Mice#Middle Aged#Thailand'
b'Xanthones are phytochemical compounds found in a number of fruits and vegetables. Characteristically, they are noted to be made of diverse properties based on their biological, biochemical, and pharmacological actions. Accordingly, the apoptosis mechanisms induced by beta-mangostin, a xanthone compound isolated from Cratoxylum arborescens in the human promyelocytic leukemia cell line (HL60) in vitro, were examined in this study. The 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay was done to estimate the cytotoxicity effect of \xce\xb2-mangostin on the HL60 cell line. Acridine orange/propidium iodide and Hoechst 33342 dyes and Annexin V tests were conducted to detect the apoptosis features. Caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities; reactive oxygen species; real-time polymerase chain reaction for Bcl-2, Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 Hsp70 genes; and western blot for p53, cytochrome c, and pro- and cleavage-caspase-3 and caspase-9 were assessed to examine the apoptosis mechanism. Cell-cycle analysis conducted revealed that \xce\xb2-mangostin inhibited the growth of HL60 at 58\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M in 24\xe2\x80\x89h. The administration of \xce\xb2-mangostin with HL60 caused cell morphological changes related to apoptosis which increased the number of early and late apoptotic cells. The \xce\xb2-mangostin-catalyzed apoptosis action through caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9 activation overproduced reactive oxygen species which downregulated the expression of antiapoptotic genes Bcl-2 and HSP70. Conversely, the expression of the apoptotic genes Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 were upregulated. Meanwhile, at the protein level, \xce\xb2-mangostin activated the formation of cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-9 and also upregulated the p53. \xce\xb2-mangostin arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1phase. Overall, the results for \xce\xb2-mangostin showed an antiproliferative effect in HL60 via stopping the cell cycle at the G0/G1phase and prompted the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Clusiaceae#Down-Regulation#G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Plant Extracts#Reactive Oxygen Species#Xanthones'
b'The role of microRNAs in brain cancer is still naive. Some act as oncogene and others as tumor suppressors. Discovery of efficient biomarkers is mandatory to debate that aggressive disease. Bioinformatically selected microRNAs and their targets were investigated to evaluate their putative signature as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in primary glioblastoma multiforme. Expression of a panel of seven microRNAs (hsa-miR-34a, hsa-miR-16, hsa-miR-17, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-221, hsa-miR-326, and hsa-miR-375) and seven target genes ( E2F3, PI3KCA, TOM34, WNT5A, PDCD4, DFFA, and EGFR) in 43 glioblastoma multiforme specimens were profiled compared to non-cancer tissues via quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry staining for three proteins (VEGFA, BAX, and BCL2) was performed. Gene enrichment analysis identified the biological regulatory functions of the gene panel in glioma pathway. MGMT ( O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase) promoter methylation was analyzed for molecular subtyping of tumor specimens. Our data demonstrated a significant upregulation of five microRNAs (hsa-miR-16, hsa-miR-17, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-221, and hsa-miR-375), three genes ( E2F3, PI3KCA, and Wnt5a), two proteins (VEGFA and BCL2), and downregulation of hsa-miR-34a and three other genes ( DFFA, PDCD4, and EGFR) in brain cancer tissues. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that miR-34a (area under the curve = 0.927) and miR-17 (area under the curve = 0.900) had the highest diagnostic performance, followed by miR-221 (area under the curve = 0.845), miR-21 (area under the curve = 0.836), WNT5A (area under the curve = 0.809), PDCD4 (area under the curve = 0.809), and PI3KCA (area under the curve = 0.800). MGMT promoter methylation status was associated with high miR-221 levels. Moreover, patients with VEGFA overexpression and downregulation of TOM34 and BAX had poor overall survival. Nevertheless, miR-17, miR-221, and miR-326 downregulation were significantly associated with high recurrence rate. Multivariate analysis by hierarchical clustering classified patients into four distinct groups based on gene panel signature. In conclusion, the explored microRNA-target dysregulation could pave the road toward developing potential therapeutic strategies for glioblastoma multiforme. Future translational and functional studies are highly recommended to better understand the complex bio-molecular signature of this difficult-to-treat tumor. labels: #Adult#Area Under Curve#Brain Neoplasms#Cluster Analysis#Female#Glioblastoma#Humans#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#ROC Curve#Transcriptome'
b'Accurate staging of rectal cancer remains essential for optimal patient selection for combined modality treatment, including radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgery. We aimed at examining the correlation of cell free DNA with the pathologic stage and subsequent risk of recurrence for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer undergoing preoperative chemoradiation. We examined 75 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer receiving preoperative chemoradiation. Blood samples for translational use were drawn prior to rectal surgery. The level of cell free DNA was quantified by digital droplet PCR and expressed as copy number of beta 2 microglobulin. We found a median level of cell free DNA in the AJCC stages I-III of 3100, 8300, and 10,700 copies/mL respectively. For patients with 12 sampled lymph nodes or above, the median level of cell free DNA were 2400 copies/mL and 4400 copies/mL (p = 0.04) for node negative and node positive disease respectively. The median follow-up was 39 months and 11 recurrences were detected (15%). The median level for patients with recurrent disease was 13,000 copies/mL compared to 5200 copies/mL for non-recurrent patients (p = 0.08). We have demonstrated a correlation between the level of total cell free DNA and the pathologic stage and nodal involvement. Furthermore, we have found a trend towards a correlation with the risk of recurrence following resection of localized rectal cancer. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Chemoradiotherapy#DNA#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Rectal Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b'Lung cancer is one of the most frequently occurring cancers throughout the world as well as in Bangladesh. This study aimed to correlate the prognostic and/or predictive value of functional polymorphisms in SULT1A1 (rs9282861) and XRCC1 (rs25487) genes and lung cancer risk in Bangladeshi population. A case-control study was conducted which comprises 202 lung cancer patients and 242 healthy volunteers taking into account the age, sex, and smoking status. After isolation of genomic DNA, genotyping was done by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method and the lung cancer risk was evaluated as odds ratio that was adjusted for age, sex, and smoking status. A significant association was found between SULT1A1 rs9282861 and XRCC1 rs25487 polymorphisms and lung cancer risk. In case of rs9282861 polymorphism, Arg/His (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x895.06, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.05-8.41, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and His/His (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.88, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.20-6.82, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) genotypes were strongly associated with increased risk of lung cancer in comparison to the Arg/Arg genotype. In case of rs25487 polymorphism, Arg/Gln heterozygote (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.57, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.79-7.46, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and Gln/Gln mutant homozygote (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.99, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.66-9.36, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) were also found to be significantly associated with increased risk of lung cancer. This study demonstrates that the presence of His allele and Gln allele in case of SULT1A1 rs9282861 and XRCC1 rs25487, respectively, involve in lung cancer prognosis in Bangladeshi population. labels: #Arylsulfotransferase#Bangladesh#Case-Control Studies#DNA-Binding Proteins#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Smoking#X-ray Repair Cross Complementing Protein 1'
b'Since the inception of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society heart failure (HF) guidelines in 2006, much has changed in the care for patients with HF. Over the past decade, the HF Guidelines Committee has published regular updates. However, because of the major changes that have occurred, the Guidelines Committee believes that a comprehensive reassessment of the HF management recommendations is\xc2\xa0presently needed, with a view to producing a full and complete set of updated guidelines. The primary and secondary Canadian Cardiovascular Society HF panel members as well as external experts have reviewed clinically relevant literature to provide guidance for the practicing clinician. The 2017 HF guidelines provide updated guidance on the diagnosis and management (self-care, pharmacologic, nonpharmacologic, device, and referral) that should aid in day-to-day decisions for caring for patients with HF. Among specific issues covered are risk scores, the differences in management for HF with preserved vs reduced ejection fraction, exercise and rehabilitation, implantable devices, revascularization, right ventricular dysfunction, anemia, and iron deficiency, cardiorenal syndrome, sleep apnea, cardiomyopathies, HF in pregnancy, cardio-oncology, and myocarditis. We devoted attention to strategies and treatments to prevent HF, to the organization of HF care, comorbidity management, as well as practical issues around the timing of referral and follow-up care. Recognition and treatment of advanced HF is another important aspect of this update, including how to select advanced therapies as well as end of life considerations. Finally, we acknowledge the remaining gaps in evidence that need to be filled by future research. labels: #Canada#Cardiology#Disease Management#Heart Failure#Humans#Societies, Medical'
b'BACKGROUND: Beginning in February 2012, there was a shortage of injectable furosemide in the province of Ontario, Canada. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of the furosemide shortage on heart failure outcomes in Ontario, Canada.METHODS: We determined which hospitals experienced a shortage of injectable furosemide using an online survey. We then used health administrative data to identify all patients who presented to those hospitals with congestive heart failure. Using 40 months of data from before the shortage, we determined the proportion of patients with heart failure expected to die each month. We then used time series analysis to forecast the 30-day mortality rate during the shortage period and compared it with the observed rate. Secondary outcomes included length of hospital stay, transfer to an intensive care unit, mechanical ventilation during the hospital stay, and risk of 30-day readmission for heart failure.RESULTS: Survey results were obtained for 82% of hospitals, 28 of which experienced a severe shortage of injectable furosemide in the year 2012. The 30-day mortality among patients presenting to these hospitals with congestive heart failure before the shortage period was 11.2%. We forecasted a mortality rate of 11.3% (95% confidence interval, 8.2-14.4) for the shortage period, which was not significantly different from the observed rate of 10.9%. Similarly, we found no significant effect of the shortage on secondary outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: A severe shortage of injectable furosemide did not increase the risk of adverse outcomes among patients who presented to the hospital with congestive heart failure. labels: #Diuretics#Female#Furosemide#Heart Failure#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Ontario#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate'
b'BACKGROUND: Studies examining treatment delay and survival after surgical treatment of colon cancer have varied in quality and outcome, with little evidence available regarding the safety of longer surgical treatment wait times.OBJECTIVE: Our study examined the effect of surgical treatment wait times on survival for patients with stage I to III colon cancer.DESIGN: A subset cohort analysis was performed using data from a prospectively maintained database.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a tertiary referral center.PATIENTS: Data on all of the patients undergoing elective surgery for stage I to III colon cancer from 2006 to 2015 were collected from a prospectively maintained clinical and administrative database.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We examined the impact of prolonged wait time to surgery on disease-free and overall survival. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on a treatment wait time of \xe2\x89\xa430 or>30 days and were compared using a Cox proportional hazards model. A subgroup analysis was performed using alternative treatment delay cutoffs of 60 and 90 days.RESULTS: There were 908 patients with stage I to III colon cancer treated over the study period, with a median treatment wait time of 38 days (interquartile range, 21-61 days); 368 patients were treated within 30 days, and 540 were treated beyond 30 days from diagnosis. In adjusted multivariate analysis, a treatment delay of>30 days was not associated with decreased disease-free survival (HR = 0.89 (95% CI, 0.61-1.3); p = 0.52) or overall survival (HR = 0.82 (95% CI, 0.63-1.1); p = 0.16). Likewise, subgroup analysis using alternative treatment delay cutoffs of 60 and 90 days did not demonstrate an adverse effect on survival.LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by retrospective analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Despite longer median treatment wait times from diagnosis to surgery, with the majority of patients exceeding 30 days and many experiencing delays of 2 to 3 months, no adverse impact on survival was observed. Patients who require additional consultations or investigations preoperatively may safely have their surgery moderately delayed to minimize their perioperative risk without any evidence that this will compromise treatment outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A397. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Appointments and Schedules#Colonic Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Ontario#Prospective Studies#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: A subset of patients with rectal cancer who undergo neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy will develop a complete pathologic tumor response. Complete nodal response is not universal in these patients and is difficult to assess clinically. Quantifying the risk of nodal disease would allow for targeted therapy with either radical resection or "watchful waiting."OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify risk factors for residual nodal disease in ypT0 rectal adenocarcinoma.DESIGN: This is a retrospective case control study.SETTINGS: The National Cancer Database 2006 to 2014 was used to identify patients for this study.PATIENTS: Patients with stage II/III rectal adenocarcinoma who completed chemoradiation therapy followed by resection and who had ypT0 tumors were included. Patients with metastatic disease and<2 lymph nodes evaluated were excluded. Patients were divided into 2 groups: node positive and node negative.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome was nodal disease. The secondary outcome was overall survival.RESULTS: A total of 42,257 patients with stage II/III rectal cancer underwent chemoradiation therapy and radical resection; 4170 (9.9%) patients had ypT0 tumors and 395 (9.5%) were node positive. Of patients with clinically node-negative disease (ie, pretreatment imaging), 6.2% were node positive after chemoradiation therapy and resection. In multivariable analysis, factors predictive of nodal disease included increasing (pretreatment) clinical N-stage, high tumor grade (3/4), perineural invasion, and lymphovascular invasion. Higher clinical T-stage was inversely associated with residual nodal disease. Overall 5-year survival was significantly different between patients with ypN0, ypN1, and ypN2 disease (87.4%, 82.2%, and 62.5%, p = 0.002).LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by the lack of clinical detail in the database and the inability to assess recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Ten percent of patients with ypT0 tumors had positive nodes after chemoradiation therapy and resection. Factors associated with residual nodal disease included clinical nodal disease at diagnosis and poor histologic features. Patients with any of these features should consider radical resection regardless of tumor response. Others could be suitable for "watchful waiting" strategies. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A458. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Case-Control Studies#Chemoradiotherapy#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Humans#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Neoplasm, Residual#Rectal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether traveling long distances to high-volume centers would compensate for travel burden among patients undergoing rectal cancer resection.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether operative volume outweighs the advantages of being treated locally by comparing the outcomes of patients with rectal cancer treated at local, low-volume centers versus far, high-volume centers.DESIGN: This was a population-based study.SETTINGS: The National Cancer Database was queried for patients with rectal cancer.PATIENTS: Patients with stage II or III rectal cancer who underwent surgical resection between 2006 and 2012 were included.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The outcomes of interest were margins, lymph node yield, receipt of neoadjuvant chemoradiation, adjuvant chemotherapy, readmission within 30 days, 30-day and 90-day mortality, and 5-year overall survival.RESULTS: A total of 18,605 patients met inclusion criteria; 2067 patients were in the long-distance/high-volume group and 1362 in the short-distance/low-volume group. The median travel distance was 62.6 miles for the long-distance/high-volume group and 2.3 miles for the short-distance/low-volume group. Patients who were younger, white, privately insured, and stage III were more likely to have traveled to a high-volume center. When controlled for patient factors, stage, and hospital factors, patients in the short-distance/low-volume group had lower odds of a lymph node yield \xe2\x89\xa512 (OR = 0.51) and neoadjuvant chemoradiation (OR = 0.67) and higher 30-day (OR = 3.38) and 90-day mortality (OR = 2.07) compared with those in the long-distance/high-volume group. The short-distance/low-volume group had a 34% high risk of overall mortality at 5 years compared with the long-distance/high-volume group.LIMITATIONS: We lacked data regarding patient and physician decision making and surgeon-specific factors.CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that when controlled for patient, tumor, and hospital factors, patients who traveled a long distance to a high-volume center had improved lymph node yield, neoadjuvant chemoradiation receipt, and 30- and 90-day mortality compared with those who traveled a short distance to a low-volume center. They also had improved 5-year survival. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A446. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenocarcinoma, Mucinous#Aged#Chemoradiotherapy#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Hospitals, High-Volume#Humans#Lymph Node Excision#Male#Margins of Excision#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Patient Readmission#Rectal Neoplasms#Risk Factors#Survival Rate#Travel#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Short-term results have shown that transanal total mesorectal excision is safe and effective for patients with mid to low rectal cancers. Transanal total mesorectal excision is considered technically challenging; thus, adoption has been limited to a few academic centers in the United States.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to describe outcomes after the initiation of a transanal total mesorectal excision program in the setting of an academic colorectal training program.DESIGN: This is a single-center retrospective review of consecutive patients who underwent transanal total mesorectal excision from December 2014 to August 2016.SETTING: This study was conducted at an academic center with a colorectal residency program.PATIENTS: Patients with benign and malignant diseases were selected.INTERVENTION: All transanal total mesorectal excisions were performed with abdominal and perineal teams working simultaneously.OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes measured were pathologic quality, length of hospital stay, 30-day morbidity, and 30-day mortality.RESULTS: There were 40 patients (24 male). The median age was 55 years (interquartile range, 46.7-63.4) with a median BMI of 29\xe2\x80\x89kg/m (interquartile range, 24.6-32.4). The primary indication was cancer (n = 30), and tumor height from the anal verge ranged from 0.5 to 15\xe2\x80\x89cm. Eighty percent (n = 24) of the patients who had rectal cancer received preoperative chemoradiation. The most common procedures were low anterior resection (67.5%), total proctocolectomy (15%), and abdominoperineal resection (12.5%). Median operative time was 380 minutes (interquartile range, 306-454.4), with no change over time. For patients with malignancy, the mesorectum was complete or nearly complete in 100% of the specimens. A median of 14 lymph nodes (interquartile range, 12-17) were harvested, and 100% of the rectal cancer specimens achieved R0 status. Median length of stay was 4.5 days (interquartile range, 4-7), and there were 6 readmissions (15%). There were no deaths or intraoperative complications.LIMITATIONS: This study's limitations derive from its retrospective nature and single-center location.CONCLUSIONS: A transanal total mesorectal excision program can be safely implemented in a major academic medical center. Quality outcomes and patient safety depend on a comprehensive training program and a coordinated team approach. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A448. labels: #Academic Medical Centers#Education, Medical, Graduate#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Internship and Residency#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Rectal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Transanal Endoscopic Surgery#United States"
b"BACKGROUND: The existing scores reflecting the patient's nutritional and inflammatory status do not include all biomarkers and have been poorly studied in colorectal cancers.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess a new prognostic tool, the Naples prognostic score, comparing it with the prognostic nutritional index, controlling nutritional status score, and systemic inflammation score.DESIGN: This was an analysis of patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a university hospital.PATIENTS: A total of 562 patients who underwent surgery for colorectal cancer in July 2004 through June 2014 and 468 patients undergoing potentially curative surgery were included. MaxStat analysis dichotomized neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio, lymphocyte:monocyte ratio, prognostic nutritional index, and the controlling nutritional status score. The Naples prognostic scores were divided into 3 groups (group 0, 1, and 2). The receiver operating characteristic curve for censored survival data compared the prognostic performance of the scoring systems.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Overall survival and complication rates in all patients, as well as recurrence and disease-free survival rates in radically resected patients, were measured.RESULTS: The Naples prognostic score correlated positively with the other scoring systems (p<0.001) and worsened with advanced tumor stages (p<0.001). Patients with the worst Naples prognostic score experienced more postoperative complications (all patients, p = 0.010; radically resected patients, p = 0.026). Compared with group 0, patients in groups 1 and 2 had worse overall (group 1, HR = 2.90; group 2, HR = 8.01; p<0.001) and disease-free survival rates (group 1, HR = 2.57; group 2, HR = 6.95; p<0.001). Only the Naples prognostic score was an independent significant predictor of overall (HR = 2.0; p = 0.03) and disease-free survival rates (HR = 2.6; p = 0.01). The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that the Naples prognostic score had the best prognostic performance and discriminatory power for overall (p = 0.02) and disease-free survival (p = 0.04).LIMITATIONS: This is a single-center study, and its validity needs additional external validation.CONCLUSIONS: The Naples prognostic score is a simple tool strongly associated with long-term outcome in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A469. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Hospitals, University#Humans#Inflammation#Italy#Lymph Node Excision#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#Nutritional Status#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: A Clostridium difficile-associated risk of death score was recently developed and validated by using a national cohort of both nonsurgical and surgical patients admitted with C difficile infection. However, risk scores specifically derived from surgical cohorts and designed for patients with C difficile infection are currently unavailable.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a risk of death score for patients with C difficile infection who are being considered for total abdominal colectomy because of the failure of medical therapy.DESIGN: This is a retrospective cohort study.SETTINGS: This study was conducted with the use of a national database.PATIENTS: All patients undergoing total colectomy for C difficile infection were identified in the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database from 2005 to 2014.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Variables similar to the original scoring system were used in multivariable analyses to determine the risk of 30-day mortality for patients, and a model was constructed to estimate the predicted probability of mortality after surgery.RESULTS: Of 532 patients who underwent surgery, 32.7% experienced 30-day postoperative mortality. Patient covariates associated with significantly increased mortality included age greater than 80 years (OR 5.5, p = 0.003), need for preoperative mechanical ventilation (OR 3.1, p<0.001), chronic steroid use (OR 2.9, p<0.001), underlying cardiopulmonary disease (OR 2.0, p = 0.001), and acute renal failure (OR=1.7, p = 0.03). These and other comorbidities, including hepatic disease, a cancer diagnosis, and both insulin- and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, were used to construct a model to estimate the predicted probability of mortality, which ranged from 8.0% to 96.1% based on individual comorbidity profiles. These estimates differed substantially when compared with those obtained using the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program risk calculator, which estimated the risk of mortality among surgical patients as being consistently lower.LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by its retrospective design.CONCLUSIONS: Our surgical scoring system allows preoperative risk stratification for patients being evaluated for colectomy for C difficile infection, potentially helping to avoid futile surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A434. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Clostridium difficile#Colectomy#Comorbidity#Enterocolitis, Pseudomembranous#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Preoperative bowel preparation with or without oral antibiotics is controversial in terms of postoperative surgical site infections.OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of oral antibiotics as adjunct therapy to systemic antibiotics with mechanical bowel preparation for preventing surgical site infections in clean contaminated, contaminated, and dirty colorectal procedures.DESIGN: This was a single-center, prospective randomized study.SETTING: This study was conducted at the General Surgery Department at Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University, China, from July 15, 2014 to January 20, 2016.PATIENTS: Patients aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years scheduled for abdominal surgery with clean-contaminated, contaminated, and dirty wounds were selected.INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly assigned to receive preoperative mechanical bowel preparation or mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics.MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary outcome was the rate of surgical site infections. The secondary outcomes were extra-abdominal complications, duration of postoperative ileus, and readmission rate.RESULTS: Ninety-five patients were allocated to each group. Eight and 26 surgical site infections (8.42% vs 27.3 %, p = 0.004) occurred in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics and mechanical bowel preparation groups. Thirteen extra-abdominal complications were reported: 6 in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics group and 7 in the mechanical bowel preparation group (6.3% vs 7.3%, p = 0.77). Postoperative ileus duration did not differ between groups (p = 0.23). There were 4 readmissions in the mechanical bowel preparation group and none in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics group (p = 0.04). On multivariable analysis, blood loss \xe2\x89\xa5500\xe2\x80\x89mL (OR, 5.1; 95% CI, 1.27-20.4; p = 0.02), ASA score \xe2\x89\xa53 (OR, 3.9; 95% CI, 1.2-12.5; p = 0.01), contaminated types (OR, 3.6; 95% CI, 1.5-8.6; p = 0.01), and administration of preoperative oral antibiotics (OR, 0.20; 95% CI, 0.06-0.60; p = 0.005) independently affected the incidence of surgical site infections.LIMITATIONS: This was a single-center study.CONCLUSION: Preoperative oral antibiotics, as adjunct therapy to systemic antibiotics and mechanical bowel preparation, significantly reduced surgical site infections and minimized the readmission rates in clean contaminated, contaminated, and dirty types of colorectal surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A437. labels: #Administration, Oral#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Cathartics#China#Colorectal Surgery#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Preoperative Care#Prospective Studies#Surgical Wound Infection#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND: Approximately half of Crohn's patients require intestinal resection, and many need repeat resections.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the increased risk of clinical anastomotic leak in patients with a history of previous intestinal resection undergoing repeat resection with anastomosis for Crohn's disease.DESIGN: This was a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected departmental data with 100% capture.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at the department of colorectal surgery in a tertiary care teaching hospital between July 2007 and March 2016.PATIENTS: A cohort of consecutive patients with Crohn's disease who were treated with intestinal resection and anastomosis, excluding patients with proximal fecal diversion, were included. The cohort was divided into 2 groups, those with no previous resection compared with those with previous resection.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical anastomotic leak within 30 days of surgery was measured.RESULTS: Of the 206 patients who met criteria, 83 patients had previous intestinal resection (40%). The 2 groups were similar in terms of patient factors, immune-suppressing medication use, and procedural factors. Overall, 20 clinical anastomotic leaks were identified (10% leak rate). There were 6 leaks (5%) detected in patients with no previous intestinal resection and 14 leaks (17%) detected in patients with a history of previous intestinal resection (p<0.005). The OR of anastomotic leak in patients with Crohn's disease with previous resection compared with no previous resection was 3.5 (95% CI, 1.3-9.4). Patients with 1 previous resection (n = 53) had a leak rate of 13%, whereas patients with \xe2\x89\xa52 previous resections (n = 30) had a leak rate of 23%. The number of previous resections correlated with increasing risk for clinical anastomotic leak (correlation coefficient = 0.998).LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study with limited data to perform a multivariate analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Repeat intestinal resection in patients with Crohn's disease is associated with an increased rate of anastomotic leakage when compared with initial resection despite similar patient, medication, and procedural factors. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A459. labels: #Anastomotic Leak#Crohn Disease#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Reoperation#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors"
b"BACKGROUND: Defective cell-mediated immunity increases the risk of human papillomavirus-associated anal dysplasia and cancer. There is limited information on anal canal disease in patients with IBD.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess anal/vaginal human papillomavirus and anal dysplasia prevalence in patients with IBD.DESIGN: Patients had an anal examination before routine colonoscopy.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a tertiary IBD referral center.PATIENTS: We studied a convenience sample of sexually active male and female patients with IBD who were not on biological therapy.INTERVENTION: Anal examination, anal and vaginal human papillomavirus testing, anal cytology, and high-resolution anoscopy/biopsy were carried out.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anal and vaginal human papillomavirus types, anal cytology, and biopsy grade were measured.RESULTS: Twenty-five male and 21 female evaluable participants, 31 with Crohn's disease, 14 with ulcerative colitis, and 1 with indeterminate colitis, were predominantly white (91.3%), treatment experienced (76.1%), an average age of 38.1 years (range, 22.0-66.0 y), and had an average length of IBD diagnosis of 9.3 years (range, 1.0-33.0 y). Eighteen (39.1%) had an abnormal perianal examination and 3 (6.5%) had an abnormal digital examination. Forty-one (89.1%) had anal human papillomavirus, 16 with a single type and 25 with multiple types (range, 2-5 types). Human papillomavirus type 16 was most common (65.2%), followed by human papillomavirus types 11 and 45 (37.0% each). Nineteen of 21 (90.5%) women had vaginal human papillomavirus. Overall, 21 (45.7%) had abnormal anal cytology. Thirty three (71.7%) had \xe2\x89\xa51 anal biopsy (9 had multiple), with dysplasia diagnosed in 28 (60.9%) and high-grade and low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions diagnosed in 4 (8.7%) and 24 (43.5%).LIMITATIONS: No control group was included, and no detailed sexual history was taken.CONCLUSIONS: A high prevalence of anal and vaginal human papillomavirus and anal dysplasia was demonstrated in the study population outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A379. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anus Diseases#Biopsy#Female#Humans#Inflammatory Bowel Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Papillomaviridae#Papillomavirus Infections#Pilot Projects#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Precancerous Conditions#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Vagina"
b'BACKGROUND: Decision-making for pulse generator implantation for sacral nerve stimulation in the management of fecal incontinence is based on the results of a test phase. Its duration is still a matter of debate.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether an early positive response during the test phase could predict implantation of a permanent sacral nerve pulse generator.DESIGN: This was a short-term observational cohort study. A positive response was defined as a>50% decrease of fecal leaks compared with baseline. A multivariate logistic regression was computed to predict pulse generator implantation after the first week of the test phase.SETTINGS: The study was conducted in 3 national referral centers.PATIENTS: From January 2006 to December 2012, 144 patients with fecal incontinence enrolled in a prospectively maintained database completed a 2- to 3-week bowel diary, at baseline and during test phase.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the clinical decision to implant a pulse generator. The primary predictor was a calculated score including the number of leak episodes, bowel movements, and urgencies and the time to defer defecation expressed in minutes during the first screening test week.RESULTS: After the first, second and third week of the test phase, 81 (56%) of 144, 96 (67%) of 144, and 93 (70%) of 131 patients had a positive test. A permanent pulse generator was implanted in 114. Time to defer defecation increased during the 3 weeks of screening. Urgencies were unchanged. The computed score was predictive of a permanent pulse generator implantation (Se = 72.6% (95% CI, 59.8-83.1); Sp = 100% (95% CI, 78.2-100); c-index = 0.86 (95% CI, 0.78-0.94)).LIMITATIONS: No cost analysis or projection based on our proposal to reduce the test phase has been made.CONCLUSIONS: Permanent pulse generator implantation can be safely proposed early (1-week screening) to fast responders. Nonetheless, permanent implantation may be decided as well in patients exhibiting a delayed response. Whether a rapid response to sacral nerve stimulation could be predictive of a long-term response remains to be determined. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A452. labels: #Aged#Electric Stimulation Therapy#Fecal Incontinence#Female#Humans#Lumbosacral Plexus#Male#Middle Aged#Sacrum#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Regenerating muscle at a time remote from injury requires re-expression of cytokines to attract stem cells to start and sustain the process of repair.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the sustainability of muscle regeneration after treatment with a nonviral plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1.DESIGN: This was a randomized study.SETTINGS: The study was conducted with animals in a single research facility.INTERVENTIONS: Fifty-six female age-/weight-matched Sprague-Dawley rats underwent excision of the ventral half of the anal sphincter complex. Three weeks later, rats were randomly allocated (n = 8) to one of the following groups: no treatment, 100 \xce\xbcg of plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally, local injection of plasmid and 8\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, and plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally with injection of a gelatin scaffold mixed with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anal manometry, histology, immunohistochemistrym and morphometry were performed 8 weeks after treatment. Protein expression of cytokines CXCR4 and Myf5 was investigated 1 week after treatment (n = 6 per group). ANOVA was used, with p<0.0083 indicating significant differences for anal manometry and p<0.05 for all other statistical analysis.RESULTS: Eight weeks after treatment, all of the groups receiving the plasmid had significantly higher anal pressures than controls and more organized muscle architecture in the region of the defect. Animals receiving plasmid alone had significantly greater muscle in the defect (p = 0.03) than either animals with injury alone (p = 0.02) or those receiving the plasmid, cells, and scaffold (p = 0.03). Both smooth and skeletal muscles were regenerated significantly more after plasmid treatment. There were no significant differences in the protein levels of CXCR4 or Myf5.LIMITATIONS: The study was limited by its small sample size and because stromal cell-derived factor 1 was not blocked.CONCLUSIONS: A plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1 may be sufficient to repair an injured anal sphincter even long after the injury and in the absence of mesenchymal stem cell or scaffold treatments. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A451. labels: #Anal Canal#Animals#Chemokine CXCL12#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Manometry#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscle, Smooth#Myogenic Regulatory Factor 5#Plasmids#Random Allocation#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Receptors, CXCR5#Regeneration'
b'Mid-exponential cultures of two traditional biotechnological yeast species, winery Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the less ethanol tolerant bottom-fermenting brewery Saccharomyces pastorianus, were exposed to different concentrations of added ethanol (3, 5 and 8%) The degree of ethanol-induced cell stress was assessed by measuring the cellular activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), level of lipid peroxidation products, changes in cell lipid content and fatty acid profile. The resveratrol as an antioxidant was found to decrease the ethanol-induced rise of SOD activity and suppress the ethanol-induced decrease in cell lipids. A lower resveratrol concentration (0.5\xc2\xa0mg/l) even reduced the extent of lipid peroxidation in cells. Resveratrol also alleviated ethanol-induced changes in cell lipid composition in both species by strongly enhancing the proportion of saturated fatty acids and contributing thereby to membrane stabilization. Lower resveratrol concentrations could thus diminish the negative effects of ethanol stress on yeast cells and improve their physiological state. These effects may be utilized to enhance yeast vitality in high-ethanol-producing fermentations or to increase the number of yeast generations in brewery. labels: #Antioxidants#Ethanol#Fatty Acids#Lipid Metabolism#Lipid Peroxidation#Lipids#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Stilbenes#Stress, Physiological#Superoxide Dismutase#Wine'
b'The crude extract isolated from the visceral mass of Anadara granosa, an intertidal bivalve mollusc was tested for inhibitory activity against pathogenic bacteria of the shrimp and fish viz. Vibrio harveyi and Staphylococcus aureus respectively by agar well diffusion and contact bioautography methods. Maximum inhibitory activity was shown against V. harveyi by methanol and chloroform (9:1) extract. Twelve fractions (1-12) could be separated from the crude extract through column chromatography. Five out of twelve fractions (7, 8, 9, 10, and 11) showed antibacterial activity and they were further run on column chromatography for purity. The fraction no. 9 showed highest antibacterial activity among the five and was subjected to NMR for the proton, C13and H1-H1correlation, IR and mass spectral analysis for structural elucidation. Structure of the compound isolated from fraction no: 9 was determined as 1-(((2Z, 4Z)-dodeca-2,4-dienoyl)oxy)-3-hydroxypropan-2-yl tetradecanoate. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Arcidae#Artemia#Biological Factors#Methanol#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Staphylococcus aureus#Vibrio'
b'Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been widely used for wine fermentation and bio-fuels production. A S. cerevisiae strain Sc131 isolated from tropical fruit shows good fermentation properties and ethanol tolerance, exhibiting significant potential in Chinese bayberry wine fermentation. In this study, RNA-sequence and RT-qPCR was used to investigate the transcriptome profile of Sc131 in response to ethanol stress. Scanning Electron Microscopy were carried out to observe surface morphology of yeast cells. Totally, 937 genes were identified differential expressed, including 587 up-regulated and 350 down-regulated genes, after 4-h ethanol stress (10% v/v). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that, most genes involved in regulating filamentous growth or pseudohyphal growth were significantly up-regulated in response to ethanol stress. The complex protein quality control machineries, Hsp90/Hsp70 and Hsp104/Hsp70/Hsp40 based chaperone system combining with ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic pathway were both activated to recognize and degrade misfolding proteins. Genes related to biosynthesis and metabolism of two well-known stress-responsive substances trehalose and ergosterol were generally up-regulated, while genes associated with amino acids biosynthesis and metabolism processes were differentially expressed. Moreover, thiamine was also important in response to ethanol stress. This research may promote the potential applications of Sc131 in the fermentation of Chinese bayberry wine. labels: #Amino Acids#Down-Regulation#Ergosterol#Ethanol#Fermentation#Gene Expression Profiling#Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex#Proteolysis#RNA#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Stress, Physiological#Transcriptome#Trehalose#Ubiquitin#Up-Regulation#Wine'
b'Over the past four decades we have witnessed great progress and increasing pregnancy success rates with in\xc2\xa0vitro fertilization. However, this apparent success has been accompanied by the burden of multiple pregnancies. While efforts to reduce the number of embryos transferred have had a salutary impact on the incidence of high order multiple pregnancies, twin gestations have not diminished significantly. Thus, the search for a marker of embryo quality with the goal of selecting the single best embryo for transfer continues to be the major challenge facing our field. The four contributions in this Views and Reviews present several contemporary approaches, both invasive and non-invasive, for evaluating embryo viability. Each group makes the case that recent techniques, including time-lapse microscopy, biomechanical markers for oocytes and embryos, novel non-invasive methods of evaluating embryo metabolism and function as well as measurement of mitochondrial DNA, will allow the identification of the single best embryo for transfer. They describe several promising markers of embryo viability, although the goal of finding the "holy grail" of embryo selection has not yet been realized. labels: #Biomarkers#Blastocyst#Cell Survival#DNA, Mitochondrial#Embryo Implantation#Female#Fertility#Fertilization in Vitro#Genetic Markers#Humans#Infertility#Microscopy#Predictive Value of Tests#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Pregnancy, Multiple#Single Embryo Transfer#Time-Lapse Imaging#Treatment Outcome'
b'Objectives: Transmission of polio poses a threat to military forces when deploying to regions where such viruses are endemic. US-born soldiers generally enter service with immunity resulting from childhood immunization against polio; moreover, new recruits are routinely vaccinated with inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), supplemented based upon deployment circumstances. Given residual protection from childhood vaccination, risk-based vaccination may sufficiently protect troops from polio transmission.Methods: This analysis employed a mathematical system for polio transmission within military populations interacting with locals in a polio-endemic region to evaluate changes in vaccination policy.Results: Removal of blanket immunization had no effect on simulated polio incidence among deployed military populations when risk-based immunization was employed; however, when these individuals reintegrated with their base populations, risk of transmission to nondeployed personnel increased by 19%. In the absence of both blanket- and risk-based immunization, transmission to nondeployed populations increased by 25%. The overall number of new infections among nondeployed populations was negligible for both scenarios due to high childhood immunization rates, partial protection against transmission conferred by IPV, and low global disease incidence levels.Conclusion: Risk-based immunization driven by deployment to polio-endemic regions is sufficient to prevent transmission among both deployed and nondeployed US military populations. labels: #Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Humans#Immunization Programs#Incidence#Mathematical Concepts#Military Personnel#Models, Biological#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus Vaccine, Inactivated#Risk Factors#United States'
b'Besides the influenza virus (IV), several other viruses are responsible for influenza-like illness (ILI). Although human parechoviruses (HPeVs) and enteroviruses (EVs) may impact on ILI, limited data on their epidemiological characteristics are available. During seven consecutive winter seasons (from 2010-2011 to 2016-2017), within the framework of an influenza surveillance system (InfluNet), 593 respiratory swabs were collected from children \xe2\x89\xa45\xe2\x80\x89years of age with ILIs. Molecular detection showed that 58.3\xe2\x80\x8a% of swabs were positive for at least one of the viruses under study: 46\xe2\x80\x8a% for IV, 13\xe2\x80\x8a% for EV and 5.4\xe2\x80\x8a% for HPeV. A single virus was identified in 51.3\xe2\x80\x8a% of samples while more than one virus was detected in 7\xe2\x80\x8a% of the samples. The risk of contracting IV was higher than the risk associated with EV, which in turn was higher than the risk of contracting HPeV. The risk of developing an IV infection was twofold greater in children>3\xe2\x80\x89years than in those \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x89years, who had higher risk of EV/HPeV infection. The frequency of EV/HPeV-positive swabs increased significantly during the 2016-2017 winter season compared to the previous six seasons. Sixteen EV genotypes were identified belonging to species A and B. HPeV-1 was the most frequently detected genotype, followed by -6 and -3. In this study, IV was mainly responsible for ILI, however EV and HPeV were also involved and particularly affected children \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x89years of age. Influenza surveillance samples could provide us with valuable insight into the epidemiological features of viruses involved in ILI. labels: #Child#Enterovirus#Genetic Variation#Humans#Italy#Molecular Epidemiology#Orthomyxoviridae#Parechovirus#Prevalence#Respiratory Tract Infections'
b"Objectives: Recent commercialization of methods for in situ hybridization using Z-pair probe/branched DNA amplification has led to increasing adoption of this technology for interrogating RNA expression in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues. Current practice for FFPE block storage is to maintain them at room temperature, often for many years.Methods: To examine the effects of block storage time on FFPE tissues using a number of RNA in situ probes with the Advanced Cellular Diagnostic's RNAscope assay.Results: We report marked reductions in signals after 5 years and significant reductions often after 1 year. Furthermore, storing unstained slides cut from recent cases (<1 year old) at -20\xc2\xb0C can preserve hybridization signals significantly better than storing the blocks at room temperature and cutting the slides fresh when needed.Conclusions: We submit that the standard practice of storing FFPE tissue blocks at room temperature should be reevaluated to better preserve RNA for in situ hybridization. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Neoplasm#Cold Temperature#Cryopreservation#Humans#In Situ Hybridization#Male#Mice#Paraffin Embedding#Prostatic Neoplasms#RNA#Tissue Array Analysis#Tissue Fixation"
b'Objectives: We sought to test recent guidelines for preserving immunoreactivity of precut slides, to quantify loss of immunoreactivity, and to determine potential for preservation by altering storage conditions.Methods: Precut slides from tissue microarrays were stored under one of several conditions: exposed to ambient air at room temperature, 4\xc2\xb0C, or -20\xc2\xb0C or in a vacuum-sealed container at room temperature, -20\xc2\xb0C, -80\xc2\xb0C, or with paraffin coating. At multiple intervals over 1 year, slides were stained with antibodies against p53, isocitrate dehydrogenase 1, Ki-67, synaptophysin, and androgen receptor and evaluated.Results: Compared with time 0, the overall median percentage immunoreactivity was 66% at 6 months and 51% at 1 year. During the experiment, this was as low as 55% for precut slides stored in paraffin coating and up to 87% for those stored at -20\xc2\xb0C. Vacuum sealing was an effective preservative for some antibody targets and detrimental for others. Storage at -80\xc2\xb0C did not have added value.Conclusions: For precut slides, there is a time, storage condition, and antibody-dependent loss of immunoreactivity that could compromise analysis of prognostic, predictive, and diagnostic markers. Our findings support previous recommendations and suggest that the best storage conditions are at -20\xc2\xb0C, without paraffin coating or vacuum sealing. labels: #Epitopes#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Longitudinal Studies#Neoplasms#Paraffin Embedding#Prospective Studies#Specimen Handling#Time Factors#Tissue Array Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of operating room headgear in preventing airborne contamination has been called into question. We hypothesized that bouffant style hats would be as effective in preventing bacterial and particulate contamination in the operating room compared with disposable or cloth skull caps, and bouffant style hats would have similar permeability, particle penetration, and porosity compared with skull caps.STUDY DESIGN: Disposable bouffant and skull cap hats and newly laundered cloth skull caps were tested. A mock surgical procedure was used in a dynamic operating room environment. Airborne particulate and microbial contaminants were sampled. Hat fabric was tested for permeability, particle transmission, and pore sizes.RESULTS: No significant differences were observed between disposable bouffant and disposable skull caps with regard to particle or actively sampled microbial contamination. However, when compared with disposable skull caps, disposable bouffant hats did have significantly higher microbial shed at the sterile field, as measured by passive settle plate analysis (p<0.05). When compared with cloth skull caps, disposable bouffants yielded higher levels of 0.5 \xce\xbcm and 1.0 \xce\xbcm particles and significantly higher microbial shed detected with passive analysis. Fabric assessment determined that disposable bouffant hats had larger average and maximum pore sizes compared with cloth skull caps, and were significantly more permeable than either disposable or cloth skull caps.CONCLUSIONS: Disposable bouffant hats had greater permeability, penetration, and greater microbial shed, as assessed by passive microbial analysis compared with disposable skull caps. When compared with cloth skull caps, disposable bouffants yielded greater permeability, greater particulate contamination, and greater passive microbial shed. Disposable style bouffant hats should not be considered superior to skull caps in preventing airborne contamination in the operating room. labels: #Disposable Equipment#Environment, Controlled#Humans#Operating Rooms#Textiles'
b'With ongoing resistance problems against the marketed EGFR inhibitors having a quinazoline core scaffold there is a need for the development of novel inhibitors having a modified scaffold and, thus, expected lower EGFR resistance problems. An additional problem concerning EGFR inhibitor resistance is an observed heterodimerization of EGFR with PDGFR-\xce\xb2 that neutralises the sole inhibitor activity towards EGFR. We developed novel pyrimido[4,5-b]indoles with varied substitution patterns at the 4-anilino residue to evaluate their EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 inhibiting properties. We identified dual inhibitors of both EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 in the nanomolar range which have been initially screened in cancer cell lines to prove a benefit of both EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 inhibition. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Discovery#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Humans#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptor, Platelet-Derived Growth Factor beta#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'In search of new non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) with improved solubility, two series of novel diaryl ethers with phenacyl moiety were designed and evaluated for their HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibition potentials. All compounds exhibited good to excellent results with IC50at low micromolar to submicromolar concentrations. Two most active compounds (7e and 7\xe2\x80\x89g) exhibit inhibitory potency comparable or even better than that of nevirapine and rilpivirine. Furthermore, SupT1 and CD4+cell infectivity assays for the most promising (7e) have confirmed its strong antiviral potential while docking studies indicate a novel binding interactions responsible for high activity. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Catechols#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Design#Ethers#HIV Reverse Transcriptase#HIV-1#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Resorcinols#Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors#Solubility#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'The \xce\xb2-class carbonic anhydrase (CA, EC 4.2.1.1) from the pathogenic bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei, BpsCA\xce\xb2, that is responsible for the tropical disease melioidosis was investigated for its activation with natural and non-natural amino acids and amines. Previously, the \xce\xb3-CA from this bacterium has been investigated with the same library of 19 amines/amino acids, which show very potent activating effects on both enzymes. The most effective BpsCA\xce\xb2 activators were L- and D-DOPA, L- and D-Trp, L-Tyr, 4-amino-L-Phe, histamine, dopamine, serotonin, 2-pyridyl-methylamine, 1-(2-aminoethyl)-piperazine and L-adrenaline with KAs of 0.9-27\xe2\x80\x89nM. Less effective activators were D-His, L- and D-Phe, D-Tyr, 2-(2-aminoethyl)pyridine and 4-(2-aminoethyl)-morpholine with KAs of 73\xe2\x80\x89nM-3.42\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M. The activation of CAs from bacteria, such as BpsCA\xce\xb3/\xce\xb2, has not been considered previously for possible biomedical applications. It would be of interest to perform studies in which bacteria are cultivated in the presence of CA activators, which may contribute to understanding processes connected with the virulence and colonization of the host by pathogenic bacteria. labels: #Amines#Amino Acids#Burkholderia pseudomallei#Carbonic Anhydrases#Molecular Structure'
b'In our present research, we synthesised new thiazolidine-2,4-diones (12-28). All the newly synthesised compounds were evaluated for antiproliferative and antibacterial activity. Antiproliferative evaluation was carried out using normal human skin fibroblasts and tumour cell lines: A549, HepG2, and MCF-7. The IC50values were determined for tested compounds revealing antiproliferative activity. Moreover, safety index (SI) was calculated. Among all tested derivatives, the compound 18 revealed the highest antiproliferative activity against human lung, breast, and liver cancer cells. More importantly, the derivative 18 showed meaningfully lower IC50values when compared to the reference substance, irinotecan, and relatively high SI values. Moreover, newly synthesised compounds were screened for the bacteria growth inhibition in vitro. According to our screening results, most active compound was the derivative 18 against Gram-positive bacteria. Therefore, it may be implied that the novel compound 18 appears to be a very promising agent for anticancer treatment. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gram-Negative Bacteria#Gram-Positive Bacteria#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thiazolidinediones'
b'A series of 2-amino-5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones were designed, synthesised and investigated for MAO and ChE inhibition properties. Most of the compounds showed preferential inhibition towards MAO-B. Compound 4, (1-(1-(4-Bromophenyl)ethylidene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide) emerged as lead candidate (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.212\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, SI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89331.04) against MAO-B; whereas compounds 21 1-(5-Bromo-2-oxoindolin-3-ylidene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.264\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M) and 17 1-((4-Chlorophenyl) (phenyl)methylene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.024\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M) emerged as lead AChE and BuChE inhibitors respectively; with activity of compound 21 almost equivalent to tacrine. Kinetic studies indicated that compound 4 exhibited competitive and reversible MAO-B inhibition while compounds 21 and 17 showed mixed-type of AChE and BuChE inhibition respectively. Docking studies revealed that these compounds were well-accommodated within MAO-B and ChE active sites through stable hydrogen bonding and/or hydrophobic interactions. This study revealed the requirement of small heteroaryl ring at amino terminal of semicarbazone template for preferential inhibition and selectivity towards MAO-B. Our results suggest that 5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones could be further exploited for its multi-targeted role in development of anti-neurodegenerative agents. [Formula: see text] A library of 2-amino-5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones (4-21) was designed, synthesised and evaluated for in vitro MAO and ChE inhibitory activity. Compounds 4, 21 and 17 (shown) have emerged as lead MAO-B (IC50:0.212\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, competitive and reversible), AChE (IC50:0.264\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, mixed and reversible) and BuChE (IC50:0.024\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, mixed and reversible) inhibitor respectively. SAR studies disclosed several structural aspects significant for potency and selectivity and indicated the role of size of aryl binding site in potency and selectivity towards MAO-B. Antioxidant activity and neurotoxicity screening results further suggested their multifunctional potential for the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases. labels: #Acetylcholinesterase#Animals#Binding Sites#Brain#Cholinesterase Inhibitors#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Design#Mitochondria#Molecular Structure#Monoamine Oxidase#Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors#Particle Size#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Semicarbazones#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thiazoles'
b'Targeting EGFR has proven to be beneficial in the treatment of several types of solid tumours. So, a series of novel 2-(4-oxo-3-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-3,4-dihydrobenzo[g]quinazolin-2-ylthio)-N-substituted acetamide 5-19 were synthesised from the starting material 4-(2-mercapto-4-oxobenzo[g]quinazolin-3(4H)-yl) benzenesulfonamide 4, to be evaluated as dual EGFR/HER2 inhibitors. The target compounds 5-19, were screened for their cytotoxic activity against A549 lung cancer cell line. The percentage inhibition of EGFR enzyme was measured and compared with erlotinib as the reference drug. Compounds 6, 8, 10, and 16 showed excellent EGFR inhibitory activity and were further selected for screening as dual EGFR/HER2 inhibitors. The four selected compounds showed IC50ranging from 0.009 to 0.026\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for EGFR and 0.021 to 0.069\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for the HER2 enzyme. Compound 8 was found to be the most potent in this study with IC500.009 and 0.021\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for EGFR and HER2, respectively. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Humans#Molecular Structure#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Quinazolines#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'The \xce\xb2-carbonic anhydrases (CAs, EC 4.2.1.1) from the pathogenic bacterium Clostridium perfringens (CpeCA) was recently characterised kinetically and for its anion inhibition profile. In the search of effective CpeCA inhibitors, possibly useful to inhibit the growth/pathogenicity of this bacterium, we report here an inhibition study of this enzyme with a panel of aromatic, heterocyclic and sugar sulphonamides/sulphamates. Some sulphonamides, such as acetazolamide, ethoxzolamide, dichlorophenamide, dorzolamide, sulthiame and 4-(2-hydroxymethyl-4-nitrophenyl-sulphonamido)ethylbenzenesulphonamide were effective CpeCA inhibitors, with KIs in the range of 37.4-71.6\xe2\x80\x89nM. Zonisamide and saccharin were the least effective such inhibitors, whereas many other aromatic and heterocyclic sulphonamides were moderate - weak inhibitors with KIs ranging between 113 and 8755\xe2\x80\x89nM. Thus, this study provides the basis for developing better clostridial enzyme inhibitors with potential as antiinfectives with a new mechanism of action. labels: #Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors#Carbonic Anhydrases#Clostridium perfringens#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Molecular Structure#Structure-Activity Relationship#Sulfonamides'
b'BACKGROUND: Post-market surveillance is needed to evaluate the real-world clinical effectiveness and safety of U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved devices.OBJECTIVES: The authors examined the commercial experience with transcatheter mitral valve repair for the treatment of mitral regurgitation.METHODS: Data from the Society of Thoracic Surgery/American College of Cardiology Transcatheter Valve Therapy Registry on patients commercially treated with transcatheter mitral valve repair were analyzed. The study population consisted of 2,952 patients treated at 145 hospitals between November 2013 and September 2015. In 1,867 patients, data were linked to patient-specific Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services administrative claims for analyses.RESULTS: The median age was 82 years (55.8% men), with a median Society of Thoracic Surgery predicted risk of mortality of 6.1% (interquartile range: 3.7% to 9.9%) and 9.2% (interquartile range: 6.0% to 14.1%) for mitral repair and replacement, respectively. Overall, in-hospital mortality was 2.7%. Acute procedure success occurred in 91.8%. Among the patients with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services linkage data, the mortality at 30\xc2\xa0days and at 1 year was 5.2% and 25.8%, respectively, and repeat hospitalization for heart failure at 1 year occurred in 20.2%. Variables associated with mortality or rehospitalization for heart failure after multivariate adjustment were increasing age, lower baseline left ventricular ejection fraction, worse post-procedural mitral regurgitation, moderate or severe lung disease, dialysis, and severe tricuspid regurgitation.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that commercial transcatheter mitral valve repair is being performed in the\xc2\xa0United States with acute effectiveness and safety. Our findings may help determine which patients have favorable long-term outcomes with this therapy. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiology#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mortality#Registries#Research Report#Societies, Medical#Thoracic Surgery#Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Very late scaffold thrombosis (VLScT) occurs more frequently after bioresorbable scaffold (Absorb BVS\xc2\xa01.1, Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, California) implantation than with metallic everolimus-eluting stents.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to elucidate mechanisms underlying VLScT as assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT).METHODS: The INVEST (Independent OCT Registry on Very Late Bioresorbable Scaffold Thrombosis) registry is an international consortium of investigators who used OCT to examine patients with VLScT.RESULTS: Between June 2013 and May 2017, 36 patients with 38 lesions who had VLScT underwent OCT at 19 centers. VLScT occurred at a median of 20\xc2\xa0months (interquartile range: 16 to 27\xc2\xa0months) after implantation. At the time of VLScT, 83% of patients received aspirin monotherapy and 17% received dual-antiplatelet therapy. The mechanisms underlying VLScT were (in descending order) scaffold discontinuity (42.1%), malapposition (18.4%), neoatherosclerosis (18.4%), underexpansion or scaffold recoil (10.5%), uncovered struts (5.3%), and edge-related disease progression (2.6%). Discontinuity (odds ratio [OR]: 110; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 73.5 to 173; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), malapposed struts (OR: 17.0; 95% CI: 14.8 to 19.7; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), and uncovered struts (OR: 7.3; 95% CI: 6.2 to 8.8; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) were more frequent in the thrombosed than the nonthrombosed scaffold regions. In 2 of 16 patients with scaffold discontinuity, intercurrent OCT before VLScT provided evidence of circularly apposed scaffold struts with minimal tissue coverage.CONCLUSIONS: The leading mechanism underlying VLScT was scaffold discontinuity, which suggests an unfavorable resorption-related process, followed by malapposition and neoatherosclerosis. It remains to be determined whether modifications in scaffold design and optimized implantation can mitigate the risk of VLScT. (Independent OCT Registry on Very Late Bioresorbable Scaffold Thrombosis [INVEST]; NCT03180931). labels: #Absorbable Implants#Adult#Coronary Thrombosis#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Registries#Tissue Scaffolds#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'BACKGROUND: Coronary vasomotor dysfunction is an important mechanism for angina in patients with unobstructed coronary arteries.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine sex differences in the prevalence and clinical presentation of vasomotor dysfunction in a European population and to examine sex differences in the dose of acetylcholine leading to a positive acetylcholine provocation test (ACH test).METHODS: Between 2007 and 2014, we included 1,379 consecutive patients with stable angina, unobstructed coronaries and ACH test performed for epicardial vasospasm or coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD) due to microvascular spasm. The predictive value of sex, risk factors, symptoms, and noninvasive test results was analyzed by means of logistic regression.RESULTS: The mean patient age was 62 years, and 42% were male. There were 813 patients (59%) with a pathological ACH test, 33% for CMD and 26% for epicardial vasospasm. A pathological test was more common in females (70% vs. 43%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001). In a multivariable logistic regression model the sex difference was statistically significant with a female-male odds ratio for CMD and epicardial vasospasm of 4.2 (95% confidence interval: 3.1 to 5.5; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) and 2.3\xc2\xa0(95% confidence interval: 1.7 to 3.1; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), respectively. Effort-related symptoms, but neither risk factors nor noninvasive stress tests, contributed to predicting a pathological test. Female patients were more sensitive to acetylcholine with vasomotor dysfunction occurring at lower ACH doses compared with male patients.CONCLUSIONS: Vasomotor dysfunction is frequent in patients with angina and unobstructed coronaries in a European population. Female patients have a higher prevalence of vasomotor dysfunction (especially CMD) compared with male\xc2\xa0patients. A pathological ACH test was observed at lower ACH doses in women compared with men. labels: #Acetylcholine#Aged#Angina Pectoris#Coronary Vasospasm#Coronary Vessels#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Europe#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sex Characteristics#Vasodilator Agents#Vasomotor System'
b'BACKGROUND: Eosinophilic myocarditis (EM) is an acute life-threatening inflammatory disease of the heart. Neither large case series nor clinical trials on this specific myocarditis have been reported.OBJECTIVES: Based on a systematic revision of all published histologically proven cases, this study aimed to describe the clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of EM.METHODS: The study screened 443 manuscripts in MEDLINE and EMBASE on cases of EM published until June 2017. The\xc2\xa0authors identified 264 patients and included in the main analysis 179 patients admitted to hospital with histologically\xc2\xa0proven EM.RESULTS: Median age was 41 years (interquartile range: 27 to 53 years) with similar prevalence in both sexes; pediatric\xc2\xa0cases (\xe2\x89\xa416 years of age) accounted for 10.1%. The main symptom at presentation was dyspnea (59.4%), with\xc2\xa0peripheral eosinophilia observed in 75.9%. Median left ventricular ejection fraction at presentation was 35% (interquartile range: 25% to 50%). The disorders most frequently associated with EM were hypersensitivity and\xc2\xa0eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, which accounted for 34.1% and 12.8% of cases, respectively, whereas\xc2\xa0idiopathic or undefined forms accounted for 35.7% of cases. Steroids were administered in 77.7% of patients. A\xc2\xa0temporary mechanical circulatory support (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa030) was instituted in 16.8% of patients. In-hospital death was 22.3%\xc2\xa0(n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa040), with the highest occurrence in the hypersensitivity form (36.1%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.026).CONCLUSIONS: EM has a poor prognosis during the acute phase, despite a publication bias that could have led to an\xc2\xa0overestimation of mortality. Associated conditions are identified in approximately 65% of cases. Specific trials and\xc2\xa0multicenter registries are needed to provide evidence-based treatments to improve in-hospital outcome. labels: #Adult#Coronary Angiography#Eosinophilia#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocarditis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Several clinical studies have evaluated the association between ST2 and outcome in patients with heart failure (HF). However, little is known about the predictive value of frequently measured ST2 levels in patients with acute HF.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to describe the prognostic value of baseline and repeated ST2 measurements in patients\xc2\xa0with acute HF.METHODS: In the TRIUMPH (Translational Initiative on Unique and novel strategies for Management of Patients with Heart failure) clinical cohort study, 496 patients with acute HF were enrolled in 14 hospitals in the Netherlands between 2009 and 2014. Repeated blood samples (7) were drawn during 1-year follow-up. ST2 and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels were measured in a central laboratory. The primary endpoint was the composite of all-cause mortality and HF rehospitalization. Associations between repeated biomarker measurements and the primary endpoint were assessed using a joint model.RESULTS: Median age was 74 years, and 37% of patients were women. The primary endpoint was reached in 188 patients\xc2\xa0(40%) during a median follow-up of 325\xc2\xa0days (interquartile range: 85 to 401). The median baseline ST2 level was 71\xc2\xa0ng/ml (interquartile range: 46 to 102). After adjustment for clinical factors and NT-proBNP, baseline ST2 was associated with an increased risk of the primary endpoint, and the hazard ratio per 1 SD increase of the baseline ST2 level (on the log2scale) was 1.30 (95% confidence interval: 1.08 to 1.56; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.005). When repeated measurements were taken into account, the adjusted hazard ratio per 1 SD increase of the ST2 level (on the log2scale) during follow-up increased to 1.85 (95%\xc2\xa0confidence interval: 1.02 to 3.33; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.044), adjusted for clinical factors and repeated measurements\xc2\xa0of NT-proBNP. Furthermore, ST2 levels appeared to elevate several weeks before the time of the primary\xc2\xa0endpoint.CONCLUSIONS: Repeated ST2 measurements appeared to be a strong predictor of outcome in patients with acute HF, independent of repeatedly measured NT-proBNP. Hence ST2 may be helpful in clinical practice for prognostication and\xc2\xa0treatment monitoring. (TRanslational Initiative on Unique and novel strategies for Management of Patients with\xc2\xa0Heart failure [TRIUMPH]; NTR1893). labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Biomarkers#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Failure#Humans#Interleukin-1 Receptor-Like 1 Protein#Male#Netherlands#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Translational Medical Research'
b'BACKGROUND: Recently, a new ablation strategy for atrial fibrillation has emerged, which involves the identification of rotors (ie, local drivers) followed by the localized targeting of their core region by ablation. However, this concept has been subject to debate because the mode of arrhythmia termination remains poorly understood, as dedicated models and research tools are lacking. We took a unique optogenetic approach to induce and locally target a rotor in atrial monolayers.METHODS AND RESULTS: Neonatal rat atrial cardiomyocyte monolayers expressing a depolarizing light-gated ion channel (Ca2+-translocating channelrhodopsin) were subjected to patterned illumination to induce single, stable, and centralized rotors by optical S1-S2 cross-field stimulation. Next, the core region of these rotors was specifically and precisely targeted by light to induce local conduction blocks of circular or linear shapes. Conduction blocks crossing the core region, but not reaching any unexcitable boundary, did not lead to termination. Instead, electric waves started to propagate along the circumference of block, thereby maintaining reentrant activity, although of lower frequency. If, however, core-spanning lines of block reached at least 1 unexcitable boundary, reentrant activity was consistently terminated by wave collision. Lines of block away from the core region resulted merely in rotor destabilization (ie, drifting).CONCLUSIONS: Localized optogenetic targeting of rotors in atrial monolayers could lead to both stabilization and destabilization of reentrant activity. For termination, however, a line of block is required reaching from the core region to at least 1 unexcitable boundary. These findings may improve our understanding of the mechanisms involved in rotor-guided ablation. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Atrial Fibrillation#Calcium Channels#Catheter Ablation#Cells, Cultured#Heart Atria#Heart Rate#Myocytes, Cardiac#Optogenetics#Rats, Wistar#Rhodopsin#Time Factors#Transfection'
b'Oral squamous cell carcinoma is one of the most malignant tumors with high mortality rate worldwide. Biomarker discovery is critical for early diagnosis and precision treatment of this disease. MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules which often regulate essential biological processes and are good candidates for biomarkers. By integrative analysis of both the cancer-associated gene expression data and microRNA-mRNA network, miR-148b-3p, miR-629-3p, miR-27a-3p, and miR-142-3p were screened as novel diagnostic biomarkers for oral squamous cell carcinoma based on their unique regulatory abilities in the network structure of the conditional microRNA-mRNA network and their important functions. These findings were confirmed by literature verification and functional enrichment analysis. Future experimental validation is expected for the further investigation of their molecular mechanisms. labels: #Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Computational Biology#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Regulatory Networks#Humans#MicroRNAs#Models, Genetic#Mouth Neoplasms#RNA, Messenger'
b'The introduction of forensic autosomal DNA profiles was controversial, but the problems were successfully addressed, and DNA profiling has gone on to revolutionise forensic science. Y-chromosome profiles are valuable when there is a mixture of male-source and female-source DNA, and interest centres on the identity of the male source(s) of the DNA. The problem of evaluating evidential weight is even more challenging for Y profiles than for autosomal profiles. Numerous approaches have been proposed, but they fail to deal adequately with the fact that men with matching Y-profiles are related in extended patrilineal clans, many of which may not be represented in available databases. The higher mutation rates of modern profiling kits have led to increased discriminatory power but they have also exacerbated the problem of fairly conveying evidential value. Because the relevant population is difficult to define, yet the number of matching relatives is fixed as population size varies, it is typically infeasible to derive population-based match probabilities relevant to a specific crime. We propose a conceptually simple solution, based on a simulation model and software to approximate the distribution of the number of males with a matching Y profile. We show that this distribution is robust to different values for the variance in reproductive success and the population growth rate. We also use importance sampling reweighting to derive the distribution of the number of matching males conditional on a database frequency, finding that this conditioning typically has only a modest impact. We illustrate the use of our approach to quantify the value of Y profile evidence for a court in a way that is both scientifically valid and easily comprehensible by a judge or juror. labels: #Chromosomes, Human, Y#DNA#DNA Fingerprinting#Forensic Genetics#Humans#Male#Probability#Reproduction#Software'
b'Short tandem repeats (STRs) are hyper-mutable sequences in the human genome. They are often used in forensics and population genetics and are also the underlying cause of many genetic diseases. There are challenges associated with accurately determining the length polymorphism of STR loci in the genome by next-generation sequencing (NGS). In particular, accurate detection of pathological STR expansion is limited by the sequence read length during whole-genome analysis. We developed TREDPARSE, a software package that incorporates various cues from read alignment and paired-end distance distribution, as well as a sequence stutter model, in a probabilistic framework to infer repeat sizes for genetic loci, and we used this software to infer repeat sizes for 30 known disease loci. Using simulated data, we show that TREDPARSE outperforms other available software. We sampled the full genome sequences of 12,632 individuals to an average read depth of approximately 30\xc3\x97 to 40\xc3\x97 with Illumina HiSeq X. We identified 138 individuals with risk alleles at 15 STR disease loci. We validated a representative subset of the samples (n = 19) by Sanger and by Oxford Nanopore sequencing. Additionally, we validated the STR calls against known allele sizes in a set of GeT-RM reference cell-line materials (n = 6). Several STR loci that are entirely guanine or cytosines (G or C) have insufficient read evidence for inference and therefore could not be assayed precisely by TREDPARSE. TREDPARSE extends the limit of STR size detection beyond the physical sequence read length. This extension is critical because many of the disease risk cutoffs are close to or beyond the short sequence read length of 100 to 150 bases. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Alleles#Child#Female#Genetics, Population#Genome, Human#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Male#Microsatellite Repeats#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Genetic#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Software'
b'Developmental and epileptic encephalopathy (DEE) is a group of conditions characterized by the co-occurrence of epilepsy and intellectual disability (ID), typically with developmental plateauing or regression associated with frequent epileptiform activity. The cause of DEE remains unknown in the majority of cases. We performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in 197 individuals with unexplained DEE and pharmaco-resistant seizures and in their unaffected parents. We focused our attention on de novo mutations (DNMs) and identified candidate genes containing such variants. We sought to identify additional subjects with DNMs in these genes by performing targeted sequencing in another series of individuals with DEE and by mining various sequencing datasets. We also performed meta-analyses to document enrichment of DNMs in candidate genes by leveraging our WGS dataset with those of several DEE and ID series. By combining these strategies, we were able to provide a causal link between DEE and the following genes: NTRK2, GABRB2, CLTC, DHDDS, NUS1, RAB11A, GABBR2, and SNAP25. Overall, we established a molecular diagnosis in 63/197 (32%) individuals in our WGS series. The main cause of DEE in these individuals was de novo point mutations (53/63 solved cases), followed by inherited mutations (6/63 solved cases) and de novo CNVs (4/63 solved cases). De novo missense variants explained a larger proportion of individuals in our series than in other series that were primarily ascertained because of ID. Moreover, these DNMs were more frequently recurrent than those identified in ID series. These observations indicate that the genetic landscape of DEE might be different from that of ID without epilepsy. labels: #Brain Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Epilepsy#Female#Genome, Human#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation#Recurrence#Seizures'
b'DHX30 is a member of the family of DExH-box helicases, which use ATP hydrolysis to unwind RNA secondary structures. Here we identified six different de novo missense mutations in DHX30 in twelve unrelated individuals affected by global developmental delay (GDD), intellectual disability (ID), severe speech impairment and gait abnormalities. While four mutations are recurrent, two are unique with one affecting the codon of one recurrent mutation. All amino acid changes are located within highly conserved helicase motifs and were found to either impair ATPase activity or RNA recognition in different in\xc2\xa0vitro assays. Moreover, protein variants exhibit an increased propensity to trigger stress granule (SG) formation resulting in global translation inhibition. Thus, our findings highlight the prominent role of translation control in development and function of the central nervous system and also provide molecular insight into how DHX30 dysfunction might cause a neurodevelopmental disorder. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Adolescent#Amino Acids#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Central Nervous System#Child#Child, Preschool#Developmental Disabilities#Female#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation, Missense#RNA#RNA Helicases'
b'The transatlantic slave trade was the largest forced migration in world history. However, the origins of the enslaved Africans and their admixture dynamics remain unclear. To investigate the demographic history of African-descendant Marron populations, we generated genome-wide data (4.3 million markers) from 107 individuals from three African-descendant populations in South America, as well as 124 individuals from six west African populations. Throughout the Americas, thousands of enslaved Africans managed to escape captivity and establish lasting communities, such as the Noir Marron. We find that this population has the highest proportion of African ancestry (\xe2\x88\xbc98%) of any African-descendant population analyzed to date, presumably because of centuries of genetic isolation. By contrast, African-descendant populations in Brazil and Colombia harbor substantially more European and Native American ancestry as a result of their complex admixture histories. Using ancestry tract-length analysis, we detect different dates for the European admixture events in the African-Colombian (1749 CE; confidence interval [CI]: 1737-1764) and African-Brazilian (1796 CE; CI: 1789-1804) populations in our dataset, consistent with the historically attested earlier influx of Africans into Colombia. Furthermore, we find evidence for sex-specific admixture patterns, resulting from predominantly European paternal gene flow. Finally, we detect strong genetic links between the African-descendant populations and specific source populations in Africa on the basis of haplotype sharing patterns. Although the Noir Marron and African-Colombians show stronger affinities with African populations from the Bight of Benin and the Gold Coast, the African-Brazilian population from Rio de Janeiro has greater genetic affinity with Bantu-speaking populations from the Bight of Biafra and west central Africa. labels: #Africa#African Continental Ancestry Group#Brazil#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#French Guiana#Gene Flow#Genetics, Population#Genome-Wide Association Study#Haplotypes#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Suriname'
b'Although genetic correlations between complex traits provide valuable insights into epidemiological and etiological studies, a precise quantification of which genomic regions disproportionately contribute to the genome-wide correlation is currently lacking. Here, we introduce \xcf\x81-HESS, a technique to quantify the correlation between pairs of traits due to genetic variation at a small region in the genome. Our approach requires GWAS summary data only and makes no distributional assumption on the causal variant effect sizes while accounting for linkage disequilibrium (LD) and overlapping GWAS samples. We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary data across 36 quantitative traits, and identified 25 genomic regions that contribute significantly to the genetic correlation among these traits. Notably, we find 6 genomic regions that contribute to the genetic correlation of 10 pairs of traits that show negligible genome-wide correlation, further showcasing the power of local genetic correlation analyses. Finally, we report the distribution of local genetic correlations across the genome for 55 pairs of traits that show putative causal relationships. labels: #Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genomics#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Models, Genetic#Phenotype#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b'The increase in red blood cell mass (polycythemia) due to the reduced oxygen availability (hypoxia) of residence at high altitude or other conditions is generally thought to be beneficial in terms of increasing tissue oxygen supply. However, the extreme polycythemia and accompanying increased mortality due to heart failure in chronic mountain sickness most likely reduces fitness. Tibetan highlanders have adapted to high altitude, possibly in part via the selection of genetic variants associated with reduced polycythemic response to hypoxia. In contrast, high-altitude-adapted Quechua- and Aymara-speaking inhabitants of the Andean Altiplano are not protected from high-altitude polycythemia in the same way, yet they exhibit other adaptive features for which the genetic underpinnings remain obscure. Here, we used whole-genome sequencing to scan high-altitude Andeans for signals of selection. The genes showing the strongest evidence of selection-including BRINP3, NOS2, and TBX5-are associated with cardiovascular development and function but are not in the response-to-hypoxia pathway. Using association mapping, we demonstrated that the haplotypes under selection are associated with phenotypic variations related to cardiovascular health. We hypothesize that selection in response to hypoxia in Andeans could have vascular effects and could serve to mitigate the deleterious effects of polycythemia rather than reduce polycythemia itself. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Altitude#Altitude Sickness#Cardiovascular System#Female#Genome-Wide Association Study#Haplotypes#Heart Failure#Humans#Hypoxia#Male#Middle Aged#Polycythemia#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Selection, Genetic'
b'Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMK2) is one of the first proteins shown to be essential for normal learning and synaptic plasticity in mice, but its requirement for human brain development has not yet been established. Through a multi-center collaborative study based on a whole-exome sequencing approach, we identified 19 exceedingly rare de novo CAMK2A or CAMK2B variants in 24 unrelated individuals with intellectual disability. Variants were assessed for their effect on CAMK2 function and on neuronal migration. For both CAMK2A and CAMK2B, we identified mutations that decreased or increased CAMK2 auto-phosphorylation at Thr286/Thr287. We further found that all mutations affecting auto-phosphorylation also affected neuronal migration, highlighting the importance of tightly regulated CAMK2 auto-phosphorylation in neuronal function and neurodevelopment. Our data establish the importance of CAMK2A and CAMK2B and their auto-phosphorylation in human brain function and expand the phenotypic spectrum of the disorders caused by variants in key players of the glutamatergic signaling pathway. labels: #Animals#Brain#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Line#Exome#Female#Glutamic Acid#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mutation#Neurons#Phosphorylation#Signal Transduction'
b'Renal agenesis and hypodysplasia (RHD) are major causes of pediatric chronic kidney disease and are highly genetically heterogeneous. We conducted whole-exome sequencing in 202 case subjects with RHD and identified diagnostic mutations in genes known to be associated with RHD in 7/202 case subjects. In an additional affected individual with RHD and a congenital heart defect, we found a homozygous loss-of-function (LOF) variant in SLIT3, recapitulating phenotypes reported with Slit3 inactivation in the mouse. To identify genes associated with RHD, we performed an exome-wide association study with 195 unresolved case subjects and 6,905 control subjects. The top signal resided in GREB1L, a gene implicated previously in Hoxb1 and Shha signaling in zebrafish. The significance of the association, which was p = 2.0\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-5for novel LOF, increased to p = 4.1\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-6for LOF and deleterious missense variants combined, and augmented further after accounting for segregation and de novo inheritance of rare variants (joint p = 2.3\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-7). Finally, CRISPR/Cas9 disruption or knockdown of greb1l in zebrafish caused specific pronephric defects, which were rescued by wild-type human GREB1L mRNA, but not mRNA containing alleles identified in case subjects. Together, our study provides insight into the genetic landscape of kidney malformations in humans, presents multiple candidates, and identifies SLIT3 and GREB1L as genes implicated in the pathogenesis of RHD. labels: #Alleles#Animals#Case-Control Studies#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Congenital Abnormalities#Exome#Female#Genetic Heterogeneity#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genotype#Heredity#Homozygote#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Diseases#Male#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Phenotype#RNA, Long Noncoding#Urinary Tract#Urogenital Abnormalities#Zebrafish'
b'Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) constitute a major cause of chronic kidney disease in children and 20% of prenatally detected anomalies. CAKUT encompass a spectrum of developmental kidney defects, including renal agenesis, hypoplasia, and cystic and non-cystic dysplasia. More than 50 genes have been reported as mutated in CAKUT-affected case subjects. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to bilateral kidney agenesis (BKA) remain largely elusive. Whole-exome or targeted exome sequencing of 183 unrelated familial and/or severe CAKUT-affected case subjects, including 54 fetuses with BKA, led to the identification of 16 heterozygous variants in GREB1L (growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer 1-like), a gene reported as a target of retinoic acid signaling. Four loss-of-function and 12 damaging missense variants, 14 being absent from GnomAD, were identified. Twelve of them were present in familial or simplex BKA-affected case subjects. Female BKA-affected fetuses also displayed uterus agenesis. We demonstrated a significant association between GREB1L variants and BKA. By in situ hybridization, we showed expression of Greb1l in the nephrogenic zone in developing mouse kidney. We generated a Greb1l knock-out mouse model by CRISPR-Cas9. Analysis at E13.5 revealed lack of kidneys and genital tract anomalies in male and female Greb1l-/-embryos and a slight decrease in ureteric bud branching in Greb1l+/-embryos. We showed that Greb1l invalidation in mIMCD3 cells affected tubulomorphogenesis in 3D-collagen culture, a phenotype rescued by expression of the wild-type human protein. This demonstrates that GREB1L plays a major role in early metanephros and genital development in mice and humans. labels: #Animals#Child#Congenital Abnormalities#Exome#Female#Fetus#Heterozygote#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Diseases#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Phenotype#Proteins#Urinary Tract#Urogenital Abnormalities'
b'Fibronectin is a master organizer of extracellular matrices (ECMs) and promotes the assembly of collagens, fibrillin-1, and other proteins. It is also known to play roles in skeletal tissues through its secretion by osteoblasts, chondrocytes, and mesenchymal cells. Spondylometaphyseal dysplasias (SMDs) comprise a diverse group of skeletal dysplasias and often manifest as short stature, growth-plate irregularities, and vertebral anomalies, such as scoliosis. By comparing the exomes of individuals with SMD with the radiographic appearance of "corner fractures" at metaphyses, we identified three individuals with fibronectin (FN1) variants affecting highly conserved residues. Furthermore, using matching tools and the SkelDys emailing list, we identified other individuals with de novo\xc2\xa0FN1 variants and a similar phenotype. The severe scoliosis in most individuals and rare developmental coxa vara distinguish individuals with FN1 mutations from those with classical Sutcliffe-type SMD. To study functional consequences of these FN1 mutations on the protein level, we introduced three disease-associated missense variants (p.Cys87Phe [c.260G>T], p.Tyr240Asp [c.718T>G], and p.Cys260Gly [c.778T>G]) into a recombinant secreted N-terminal 70\xc2\xa0kDa fragment (rF70K) and the full-length fibronectin (rFN). The wild-type rF70K and rFN were secreted into the culture medium, whereas all mutant proteins were either not secreted or secreted at significantly lower amounts. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated increased intracellular retention of the mutant proteins. In summary, FN1 mutations that cause defective fibronectin secretion are found in SMD, and we thus provide additional evidence for a critical function of fibronectin in cartilage and bone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Bone Diseases, Developmental#Bone and Bones#Cartilage#Child#Child, Preschool#Exome#Female#Fibronectins#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Mutation#Osteochondrodysplasias#Phenotype#Scoliosis'
b"Gorlin-Chaudhry-Moss syndrome (GCMS) is a dysmorphic syndrome characterized by coronal craniosynostosis and severe midface hypoplasia, body and facial hypertrichosis, microphthalmia, short stature, and short distal phalanges. Variable lipoatrophy and cutis laxa are the basis for a progeroid appearance. Using exome and genome sequencing, we identified the recurrent de novo mutations c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) and c.649C>T (p.Arg217Cys) in SLC25A24 in five unrelated girls diagnosed with GCMS. Two of the girls had pronounced neonatal progeroid features and were initially diagnosed with Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome. SLC25A24 encodes a mitochondrial inner membrane ATP-Mg/Picarrier. In fibroblasts from affected individuals, the mutated SLC25A24 showed normal stability. In contrast to control cells, the probands' cells showed mitochondrial swelling, which was exacerbated upon treatment with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The same effect was observed after overexpression of the mutant cDNA. Under normal culture conditions, the mitochondrial membrane potential of the probands' fibroblasts was intact, whereas ATP content in the mitochondrial matrix was lower than that in control cells. However, upon H2O2exposure, the membrane potential was significantly elevated in cells harboring the mutated SLC25A24. No reduction of mitochondrial DNA copy number was observed. These findings demonstrate that mitochondrial dysfunction with increased sensitivity to oxidative stress is due to the SLC25A24 mutations. Our results suggest that the SLC25A24 mutations induce a gain of pathological function and link mitochondrial ATP-Mg/Pitransport to the development of skeletal and connective tissue. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Adenosine Triphosphate#Adolescent#Antiporters#Calcium-Binding Proteins#Child#Child, Preschool#Craniofacial Abnormalities#Craniosynostoses#Cutis Laxa#DNA, Mitochondrial#Ductus Arteriosus, Patent#Exome#Female#Fetal Growth Retardation#Fibroblasts#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Hypertrichosis#Infant#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Mutation#Oxidative Stress#Progeria"
b'A series of simplex cases have been reported under various diagnoses sharing early aging, especially evident in congenitally decreased subcutaneous fat tissue and sparse hair, bone dysplasia of the skull and fingers, a distinctive facial gestalt, and prenatal and postnatal growth retardation. For historical reasons, we suggest naming the entity Fontaine syndrome. Exome sequencing of four unrelated affected individuals showed that all carried the de novo missense variant c.649C>T (p.Arg217Cys) or c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) in SLC25A24, a solute carrier 25 family member coding for calcium-binding mitochondrial carrier protein (SCaMC-1, also known as SLC25A24). SLC25A24 allows an electro-neutral and reversible exchange of ATP-Mg and phosphate between the cytosol and mitochondria, which is required for maintaining optimal adenine nucleotide levels in the mitochondrial matrix. Molecular dynamic simulation studies predict that p.Arg217Cys and p.Arg217His narrow the substrate cavity of the protein and disrupt transporter dynamics. SLC25A24-mutant fibroblasts and cells expressing p.Arg217Cys or p.Arg217His variants showed altered mitochondrial morphology, a decreased proliferation rate, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, and decreased ATP-linked mitochondrial oxygen consumption. The results suggest that the SLC25A24 mutations lead to impaired mitochondrial ATP synthesis and cause hyperpolarization and increased proton leak in association with an impaired energy metabolism. Our findings identify SLC25A24 mutations affecting codon 217 as the underlying genetic cause of human progeroid Fontaine syndrome. labels: #Adenine#Adenosine Triphosphate#Aging#Antiporters#Bone Diseases, Developmental#Calcium-Binding Proteins#Cytosol#Female#Fetal Death#Fibroblasts#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Mutation#Oxygen#Phosphates#Syndrome'
b'Approximately one in every 200 mammalian proteins is anchored to the cell membrane through a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. These proteins play important roles notably in neurological development and function. To date, more than 20 genes have been implicated in the biogenesis of GPI-anchored proteins. GPAA1 (glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1) is an essential component of the transamidase complex along with PIGK, PIGS, PIGT, and PIGU (phosphatidylinositol-glycan biosynthesis classes K, S, T, and U, respectively). This complex orchestrates the attachment of the GPI anchor to the C terminus of precursor proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Here, we report bi-allelic mutations in GPAA1 in ten individuals from five families. Using whole-exome sequencing, we identified two frameshift mutations (c.981_993del [p.Gln327Hisfs\xe2\x88\x97102] and c.920delG [p.Gly307Alafs\xe2\x88\x9711]), one intronic splicing mutation (c.1164+5C>T), and six missense mutations (c.152C>T [p.Ser51Leu], c.160_161delinsAA [p.Ala54Asn], c.527G>C [p.Trp176Ser], c.869T>C [p.Leu290Pro], c.872T>C [p.Leu291Pro], and c.1165G>C [p.Ala389Pro]). Most individuals presented with global developmental delay, hypotonia, early-onset seizures, cerebellar atrophy, and osteopenia. The splicing mutation was found to decrease GPAA1 mRNA. Moreover, flow-cytometry analysis of five available individual samples showed that several GPI-anchored proteins had decreased cell-surface abundance in leukocytes (FLAER, CD16, and CD59) or fibroblasts (CD73 and CD109). Transduction of fibroblasts with a lentivirus encoding the wild-type protein partially rescued the deficiency of GPI-anchored proteins. These findings highlight the role of the transamidase complex in the development and function of the cerebellum and the skeletal system. labels: #Acyltransferases#Adolescent#Adult#Alleles#Atrophy#Bone Diseases, Metabolic#Cerebellum#Child#Child, Preschool#Developmental Disabilities#Epilepsy#Exome#Female#Fibroblasts#Glycosylphosphatidylinositols#Humans#Male#Membrane Glycoproteins#Muscle Hypotonia#Mutation#Pedigree#RNA, Messenger#Seizures'
b'INTRODUCTION: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is featured with the biological properties of strong aggressive behaviors, rapid disease progression, high risk of recurrence and metastasis, and low disease free survival. Patients with this tumor are insensitive to the endocrine therapy and target treatment for HER-2; therefore, chemotherapy is often used as routine treatment in clinical. Because of the fact that a considerable number of patients seek for Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) treatment after operation and chemotherapy and (or) radiotherapy, it is thus need to evaluate the correlation between Chinese herbal medicine treatment and prognosis.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a multicenter, prospective cohort study started in March 2016 in Beijing. A simple of 220 participants diagnosed with TNBC were recruited from nine hospitals and are followed up every 3 to 6 months till March 2020. Detailed information of participants includes personal information, history of cancer, quality of life, symptoms of traditional Chinese medicine and fatigue status is taken face-to-face at baseline.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has received ethical approval from the Research Ethical Committee of Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine affiliated to Capital Medical University (No.2016BL-014-01). Articles summarizing the primary results and ancillary analyses will be published in peer-reviewed journals.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry: ChiCTR-OOC-16008246. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Clinical Protocols#Combined Modality Therapy#Drugs, Chinese Herbal#Female#Humans#Medicine, Chinese Traditional#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Quality of Life#Treatment Outcome#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the risk factors of wound infection after open reduction and internal fixation of calcaneal fractures.In all, 299 patients with 318 calcaneal fractures who underwent open reduction and internal fixation by a single surgeon were grouped according to different outcomes. We gathered the data on each patient including sex, age, injury mechanism, body mass index (BMI), time to operation, fracture type, associated injuries, treatment course, tourniquet time, blood loss, bone graft (yes or no), diabetes (yes or no), smoking history, and complications. Univariate analysis and multivariable analysis were used to determine the association between risk factors and wound infection.Patients who met the entry criteria included 267 males and 32 females with a mean age of 38.6 years. Among them, 5.3% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17) suffered wound infection, and all of the wounds healed after different treatments. According to the univariate analysis, the patients who developed wound infections were active smokers, more obese (higher BMI), had a longer time from injury to operation, and longer tourniquet time. Multivariate analysis indicated that a higher BMI, delayed operation, and active smoking were independent risk factors for wound infection after open reduction and internal fixation of calcaneal fractures.Patients with calcaneal fractures who were smokers and had a higher BMI had a high risk of wound infections. We suggested that surgeons wait to operate until swellings of the injured foot improved, and we also suggested the operation should be within 14 days after the injury. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Calcaneus#Female#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Obesity#Open Fracture Reduction#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Smoking#Surgical Wound Infection#Time Factors#Time-to-Treatment#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: This randomized clinical trial (October 2012-December 2013) compared extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) and a vacuum erectile device (VED) for management of erectile dysfunction (ED).METHODS: Consecutive Chinese patients (20-55 years) with ED, abnormal nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity (NPTR), and international index of erectile function-5 items (IIEF-5) score<22 were randomized to receive ESWT or VED (twice weekly, 4 weeks). Primary outcomes were treatment efficacy and success rate 4 weeks after completion of therapy. Secondary outcomes included changes in IIEF-5 score, sex encounter profile (SEP) score, erection hardness score (EHS) and NPTR assessments 4 weeks post-therapy. All enrolled patients (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a30 per group) completed the study. At baseline, age, IIEF-5 score, SEP score, EHS, and NPTR assessments were similar between groups.RESULTS: Four weeks post-therapy, IIEF-5 score increased in the ESWT (15.03\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.00 vs. 11.60\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.28) and VED (15.10\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.06 vs. 11.53\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.27) groups, as did SEP score, EHS, and NPTR measures (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Efficacy in the ESWT and VED groups was excellent in 10% and 13.3%, respectively, and moderate in 63.3% and 53.3%, respectively. Treatment success rate in the ESWT and VED groups was 73.3% and 67.7%, respectively.CONCLUSION: VED use and ESWT have comparable efficacies in the treatment of ED in Chinese patients. labels: #Adult#China#Erectile Dysfunction#High-Energy Shock Waves#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Penile Erection#Prospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Treatment Outcome#Vacuum#Young Adult'
b'Our study aimed to evaluate the utility of muscle ultrasound in newborn screening of infantile-onset Pompe disease (IOPD) and to establish a system of severity grading. We retrospectively selected 35 patients with initial low acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) activity and collected data including muscle ultrasound features, GAA gene mutation, activity/performance, and pathological and laboratory findings. The echogenicity of 6 muscles (the bilateral vastus intermedius, rectus femoris, and sartorius muscles) was compared to that of epimysium on ultrasound and rated either 1 (normal), 2 (mildly increased), or 3 (obviously increased). These grades were used to divide patients into 3 groups. IOPD was present in none of the grade-1 patients, 5 of 9 grade-2 patients, and 5 of 5 grade-3 patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Comparing grade-2 plus grade-3 patients to grade-1 patients, muscle ultrasound detected IOPD with a sensitivity and specificity of 100.0% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 69.2%-100%) and 84.0% (95% CI: 63.9%-95.5%), respectively. The mean number of affected muscles was larger in grade-3 patients than in grade-2 patients (4.2 vs. 2.0, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.005). Mean alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), creatine kinase (CK), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels were differed significantly different between grade-3 and grade-1 patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Because it permits direct visualization of injured muscles, muscle ultrasound can be used to screen for IOPD. Our echogenicity grades of muscle injury also correlate well with serum levels of muscle-injury biochemical markers. labels: #Alanine Transaminase#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Biomarkers#Creatine Kinase#Female#Glycogen Storage Disease Type II#Humans#Infant, Newborn#L-Lactate Dehydrogenase#Male#Neonatal Screening#Quadriceps Muscle#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Ultrasonography#alpha-Glucosidases'
b'To explore the relationship between the extent of central nervous system (CNS) injury and patient outcomes meanwhile research the potential risk factors associated with neurologic sequelae. In this retrospective cohort study, we analyzed data from 117 consecutive patients (86 survivors, 31 nonsurvivors) with exertional heat stroke (EHS) who had been admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) at 48 Chinese hospitals between April 2003 and July 2015. Extent of CNS injury was dichotomized according to Glasgow coma scale (GCS) score (severe 3-8, not severe 9-15). We then assessed differences in hospital mortality based on the extent of CNS injury by comparing 90-day survival time between the patient groups. Exploring the risk factors of neurologic sequelae. The primary outcomewas the 90-day survival ratewhich differed between the 2 groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.023). The incidence of neurologic sequelae was 24.4%. For its risk factors, duration of recurrent hyperthermia (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.73, 95% CI: 1.20-2.49, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003), duration of CNS injury (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.39, 95% CI: 1.04-1.85, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025), and low GCS in the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours after admission (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.39, 95% CI: 1.11-5.15, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025) were selected by multivariable logistic regression. Cooling effect was eliminated as a factor (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2641.27, 95% CI 0.40-1.73_107, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.079). Significant differences in 90-day survival ratewere observed based on the extent of CNS injury in patients with EHS, and incidence was 24.4% for neurologic sequelae. Duration of recurrent hyperthermia, duration of CNS injury, and low GCS score in the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours following admission may be independent risk factors of neurologic sequelae. Cooling effect should be validated in the further studies. labels: #Adult#Female#Fever#Glasgow Coma Scale#Heat Stroke#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Incidence#Intensive Care Units#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Physical Exertion#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Trauma, Nervous System#Young Adult'
b'Although subjective global assessment (SGA) is a widely used tool for nutritional investigation, the scores are dependent on the inspectors\' subjective opinions, and there are only few studies that directly assessed the usefulness of SGA and modified SGA in incident peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients. A total of 365 incident PD patients between 2009 and 2015 were enrolled and measured with SGA and calculated using serum albumin and total iron binding capacity (TIBC) levels for weighted SGA. Cox analyses were performed to delineate the association between SGA or weighted SGA and all-cause mortality, and a receiver-operating characteristic was conducted to reveal the additional benefit of weighted SGA on predicting adverse clinical outcomes. The Kaplan-Meier curve showed that the cumulative survival rate in patients with "Good nutrition" (G1) was significantly higher compared to those with "Mild to severe malnutrition" (G2). G2 was significantly associated with an increase in the mortality even after adjusting for several covariates compared with G1. Moreover, a 1-unit increase in weighted SGA was also significantly correlated with mortality after adjustment of the same covariates, while G2 was not significantly associated with an increase in the mortality among young-aged (under 65 years) groups. Meanwhile, a 1-unit increase in weighted SGA was significantly related to an increase in mortality in all the subgroup analyses. Furthermore, the AUCs of weighted SGAs in all groups were significantly increased compared with those of SGA alone. In conclusions, the evaluation of nutritional status based on SGA in incident PD patients might be useful for predicting mortality. However, weighted SGA with serum albumin and TIBC can provide additional predictive power for mortality compared with SGA alone in incident PD patients. labels: #Adult#Aged#Female#Humans#Iron#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Male#Malnutrition#Middle Aged#Nutrition Assessment#Nutritional Status#Peritoneal Dialysis#Predictive Value of Tests#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Regression Analysis#Serum Albumin#Survival Rate'
b'INTRODUCTION: We present a rarely seen case of cerebral infarction due to intracranial dolichoectasia coexisting with spontaneous dissection of the basilar artery. A definition of dolichoectasia, its pathology, and imaging findings, as well as the clinical management and prognosis are briefly reviewed.CONCLUSION: We discuss in general terms the diagnosis of basilar artery dissection and its probable relationship with the occurrence of dolichoectasia. labels: #Basilar Artery#Cerebral Infarction#Humans#Intracranial Arterial Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Vertebral Artery Dissection#Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency'
b'Pneumonia is a leading cause of hospitalization and mortality worldwide. Despite recognition of the importance of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults, limited epidemiologic information is available in South Korea. This study aimed to evaluate the disease burden of hospitalized CAP in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa519 years and its epidemiologic trend using Health Insurance and Review Assessment (HIRA) data.This is a retrospective study using the HIRA database from year 2009 to 2013. We estimated the incidence rate and direct medical cost of hospitalized CAP in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa519 years in South Korea. These were further analyzed with respect to age and underlying medical conditions.During 2009 to 2013, 1216,916 hospitalizations were recorded. On average, the annual age-adjusted incidence rate of hospitalized CAP was 626 per 100,000 persons, with the rate increasing with age. When stratified by age- and risk groups, elderly people \xe2\x89\xa575 years showed the highest incidence rate of hospitalized CAP over 5-year study periods. With respect to the risk groups based on underlying medical conditions, incidence rate ratios were 2.04 to 5.86 for the high-risk group versus the low-risk group and 1.28 to 5.49 for the moderate-risk group versus the low-risk group. Overall, mean direct medical cost for hospitalized CAP was 1851 USD per capita during the 5-year period: 1263 USD in the low-risk group, 2353 USD in the moderate-risk group, and 2841 USD in the high-risk group.This study shows that the incidence and medical cost of hospitalized CAP were consistently high over the 5-year study period. In particular, elderly people and adults with underlying medical conditions were at increased risk for hospitalized CAP. labels: #Adult#Age Distribution#Age Factors#Community-Acquired Infections#Cost of Illness#Databases, Factual#Female#Health Care Costs#Hospitalization#Humans#Incidence#Insurance, Health#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonia#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is highly sensitive to radiotherapy. Locally advanced NPC has a relatively poor prognosis if treated with radiotherapy alone. Several studies have demonstrated that chemoradiotherapy confers survival benefit in locally advanced NPC. However, a small proportion of patients are resistant to chemotherapy based on cisplatin. So, it is important to make a valuable and inexpensive schedule for these patients. After 2 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy that consisted of gemcitabine and cisplatin (80\xe2\x80\x8amg/m, every 3 weeks) or paclitaxel and cisplatin (80\xe2\x80\x8amg/m, every 3 weeks), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to evaluate efficacy. A total of 13 patients with extensive nodal disease or/and bulky tumors volume were determined with a stable disease (SD) and enrolled in this study. Cisplatin at a dose of 30\xe2\x80\x8amg/m administered weekly concurrent with intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) was used to treat these patients resistant to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The efficacy was evaluated by tumor response and the change of tumor volume. After the completion of concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT), the overall tumor response was a complete response (CR) for 4 of 13 (30.8%) patients and partial response (PR) for 9 of 13 (69.2%) patients. The mean primary tumor volume was reduced by 59.7% and 89.8% at the 24th fraction of IMRT and after the completion of IMRT, respectively. The mean nodal volume was reduced by 63.8% and 93.5% at the 24th fraction of IMRT and after completion of IMRT, respectively. The study showed that weekly cisplatin concurrent with IMRT improved the treatment parameters for locally advanced NPC with resistance to neoadjuvant chemotherapy based on cisplatin. It was a valuable and relatively inexpensive schedule to improve the prognosis for these patients. labels: #Adult#Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms#Prognosis#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Tumor Burden'
b"After age 85, upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy may be indicated in 5% to 10% of inpatients, but the risk-benefit ratio is unknown. We studied patients older than 85 years undergoing upper and lower GI endoscopy.We analyzed a retrospective cohort of inpatients older than 85 years between 2004 and 2012, all explored by upper and complete lower GI endoscopy. Initial indications, including iron deficiency anemia (IDA), other anemias, GI bleeding, weight loss, and GI symptoms, were noted, as were endoscopy or anesthesia complications, immediate endoscopic diagnosis, and the ability to modify the patients' therapeutics. Deaths and final diagnosis for initial endoscopic indication were analyzed after at least 12 months.We included 55 patients, 78% women, with a median age, reticulocyte count, hemoglobin, and ferritin levels of 87 (85-99), 56 (24-214) g/L, 8.6 (4.8-12.9) g/dL, and 56 (3-799) \xce\xbcg/L, respectively. IDA was the most frequent indication for endoscopy (60%; n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33). Immediate diagnoses were found in 64% of the patients (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a35), including 25% with GI cancers (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a14) and 22% with gastroduodenal ulcers or erosions (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12). Cancer diagnosis was associated with lower reticulocyte count (45 vs. 60\xe2\x80\x8aG/L; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02). Among the 35 diagnoses, 94% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) led to modifications of the patients' therapeutics, with 29% of the patients deciding on palliative care (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a10). No endoscopic complications lead to death. Follow-up of>12 months was available in 82% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a45) of the patients; among these patients, 40% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a27) died after an average 24\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18 months. Cancer diagnosis was significantly associated with less ulterior red cell transfusion (0% vs. 28%; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02) and fewer further investigations (6.7% vs. 40%; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02).Upper and complete lower GI endoscopy in patients older than 85 years appears to be safe, and enables a high rate of immediate diagnosis, with significant modifications of therapeutics. GI cancers represented more than one-third of the endoscopic diagnoses. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Anemia, Iron-Deficiency#Endoscopy, Gastrointestinal#Female#Gastrointestinal Diseases#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Gastrointestinal Neoplasms#Geriatric Assessment#Humans#Inpatients#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Odds Ratio#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment"
b'Emergency air medical transport (EAMT) is indispensable for acutely or critically ill patients in remote areas. We determined patient-level and transport-specific factors associated with all-cause mortality after EAMT.We conducted a population-based, retrospective cohort study using a prospective registry consisting of clinical/medical records. Study inclusion criteria consisted of all adults undergoing EAMT from Kinmen hospital to the ED of Taipei Veterans General Hospital (TVGH) between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2012. The primary outcome assessments were 7-day and 30-day mortality.A total of 370 patients transported to TVGH were enrolled in the study with a mean age of 54.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a21.5 (SD) years and with a male predominance (71.6%). The average in-transit time was 1.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.4\xe2\x80\x8ahours. The 7-day, 30-day, and in-hospital mortality rates were 10.3%, 14.1%, and 14.9%. Among them 33.5% (124/370) were categorized under neurological etiologies, whereas 24.9% (90/370) cardiovascular, followed by 16.2% (60/370) trauma patients. Independent predictors associated with 7-day all-cause mortality were age (odds ratio [OR] 1.043, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.016-1.070), Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) (OR 0.730, 95% CI 0.650-0.821), and hematocrit level (OR 0.930, 95% CI 0.878-0.985). Independent predictors associated with 30-day all-cause mortality were age (OR 1.028, 95% CI 1.007-1.049), GCS (OR 0.686, 95% CI 0.600-0.785), hematocrit (OR 0.940, 95% CI 0.895-0.988), hemodynamic instability (OR 5.088 95% CI 1.769-14.635), and endotracheal intubation (OR 0.131 95% CI 0.030-0.569). The 7-day and 30-day mortality were not significantly related to transport-specific factors, such as length of flight, type of paramedic crew on board, or day and season of transport. Clinical patient-level factors, as opposed to transport-level factors, were associated with 7- and 30-day all-cause mortality in patients undergoing interfacility EAMT from Kinmen to Taiwan. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Air Ambulances#Cause of Death#Critical Illness#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intubation, Intratracheal#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Prospective Studies#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Taiwan#Time Factors#Transportation of Patients'
b'Early estimation of mortality risk in patients with trauma is essential. In this study, we evaluate the validity of the Emergency Trauma Score (EMTRAS) and Rapid Emergency Medicine Score (REMS) for predicting in-hospital mortality in patients with trauma. Furthermore, we compared the REMS and the EMTRAS with 2 other scoring systems: the Revised Trauma Score (RTS) and Injury Severity score (ISS).We performed a retrospective chart review of 6905 patients with trauma reported between July 2011 and June 2016 at a large national university hospital in South Korea. We analyzed the associations between patient characteristics, treatment course, and injury severity scoring systems (ISS, RTS, EMTRAS, and REMS) with in-hospital mortality. Discriminating power was compared between scoring systems using the areas under the curve (AUC) of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 3.1%. Higher EMTRAS and REMS scores were associated with hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The ROC curve demonstrated adequate discrimination (AUC = 0.957 for EMTRAS and 0.9 for REMS). After performing AUC analysis followed by Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons, EMTRAS was significantly superior to REMS and ISS in predicting in-hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but not significantly different from the RTS (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.057). The other scoring systems were not significantly different from each other.The EMTRAS and the REMS are simple, accurate predictors of in-hospital mortality in patients with trauma. labels: #Adult#Aged#Area Under Curve#Emergency Medicine#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Trauma Severity Indices#Wounds and Injuries'
b'Several risk factors for pancreatic fistula had been widely reported, but there was no research focusing on the exocrine output of remnant gland.During the study period of January 2015 to September 2016, 82 patients accepted pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD, end-to-end dunking pancreaticojejunostomy with internal stent tube). All the data were collected, including preoperative medical status, operative course, final pathology, gland texture, pancreatic duct diameter, size of the stent, length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube, width of the pancreatic stump, diameter of the jejunum and the status of postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF). POPF was defined according to International Study Group of Pancreatic Fistula criteria.The diameter of pancreatic duct in the POPF group was significantly smaller than that in the group without POPF (1.99 vs 2.90\xe2\x80\x8amm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). The length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube in the POPF group was significantly longer than that in the group without POPF (18.04 vs 6.92\xe2\x80\x8acm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.014). There were more pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cases and hard glands in the group without POPF. The length of pancreatic juice in the clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) group was significantly longer than that in the grade A group (32.4 vs 9.21\xe2\x80\x8acm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). Multivariate analysis identified gland texture and length of pancreatic juice as independent predictors for pancreatic fistula. Multivariate analysis also identified the length of pancreatic juice as an independent predictor for CR-POPF.The length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube might be a useful predictive factor of POPF after PD, especially for CR-POPF. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#Humans#Jejunum#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Pancreas#Pancreas, Exocrine#Pancreatic Fistula#Pancreatic Juice#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Pancreaticoduodenectomy#Pancreaticojejunostomy#Postoperative Complications#Postoperative Period#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Stents#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'The initial diagnosis of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy is based on nervous system clinical manifestations. The use of biomarkers to monitor brain injury and evaluate neuroprotective effects allows early intervention and treatment. This study was designed to determine the short-term prognostic significance of urinary S100B calcium-binding protein (S100B) in asphyxiated newborns treated with hypothermia.An observational prospective study was conducted over a period of 5 years in 31 newborns with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy who received therapeutic hypothermia. The patients were divided into 2 groups: Group A (13 newborns with a normal neurological examination before discharge) and Group B (18 newborns who died during admission or had an abnormal neurologic examination before discharge). Urinary S100B was the main variable, serum S100B and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were considered as secondary variables, and all of them were assessed on the first 3 days of life. The newborns were subsequently divided into groups with normal and abnormal electrophysiological and imaging findings.Mean urinary S100B levels were significantly higher in group B than group A on day 1 (10.58\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a14.82 vs 4.65\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.16\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.031) and day 2 (5.16\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.63 vs 0.88\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.53, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002). The optimal cutoff for urinary S100B on day 1 was>1.11\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L of (sensitivity, 100%; specificity 60%) for the prediction of neonatal death and\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.66\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L (sensitivity 83% and specificity 70%) for the prediction of a normal neurological examination before discharge. It was not possible to calculate cutoffs with a similar accuracy for serum S100B or NSE. Urinary S100B on day 1 was higher in patients with abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings (7.89\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.09 vs 4.49\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.14, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.039) and abnormal positron emission tomography findings (8.60\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.29 vs 4.30\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.28, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). There were no significant differences in S100B levels between patients with normal and abnormal electroencephalography results.Urinary S100B measured in the first days of life can predict neonatal death and short-term prognosis in asphyxiated newborns treated with hypothermia. The method is convenient, noninvasive, and has a higher sensitivity and specificity than measurement of serum S100B or NSE. labels: #Biomarkers#Electroencephalography#Female#Humans#Hypothermia, Induced#Hypoxia-Ischemia, Brain#Infant, Newborn#Male#Neurologic Examination#Perinatal Death#Phosphopyruvate Hydratase#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#S100 Calcium Binding Protein beta Subunit#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'High viral load is an independent risk factor for development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Antiviral therapy can reduce but not eliminate the risk of HCC. The aim of this study was to identify the risk factors for HCC development in CHB patients during antiviral therapy.CHB patients with HBV DNA level \xe2\x89\xa510\xe2\x80\x8acopies/mL, with or without compensated cirrhosis receiving adefovir were followed up every 6 months for 10 years (2004-2014). The primary endpoint was the development of HCC. The cumulative incidence and risk factors of HCC were evaluated by the Kaplan-Meier method and multivariate Cox proportional hazards models.At baseline, 28 of the 120 patients (23.3%) were cirrhotic. One patient developed HCC within 1 year, and therefore 119 patients were analyzed. At the end-point of follow-up, 59.7% (71/119) patients achieved virological remission (VR). Overall, 16 patients developed HCC, giving a 10-year cumulative incidence of 15.73%. Multivariate analysis showed that cirrhosis at baseline and failure to achieve VR were significant risk factors for HCC. The 10-year incidence of HCC was significantly higher in cirrhotic than noncirrhotic patients (43.16% vs. 7.05%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001). For cirrhotic patients, the 10-year incidence of HCC was significantly higher in patients without VR than those with VR (62.24% vs. 27.78%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0139).Cirrhosis at baseline and failure to achieve VR during antiviral therapy were significant risk factors for HCC development in CHB patients. Effective viral suppression is necessary to reduce HCC development in cirrhotic CHB patients. labels: #Adenine#Adult#Antiviral Agents#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hepatitis B virus#Hepatitis B, Chronic#Humans#Incidence#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Liver Cirrhosis#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Organophosphonates#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sustained Virologic Response#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Viral Load'
b'RATIONALE: Salmonella enterica subsp arizonae is a common gut inhabitant of reptiles (snakes are the most common reservoir, but it also occurs in turtles). Alhough human cases owing to this organism are exceedingly rare, it may occasionally infect young infants and immunocompromised individuals with a history of intimate associations with reptiles. Our case is the 20th one among the infections with S arizonae in children, but the 2nd one of otitis and the first of mastoiditis. The other cases had different anatomical locations, such as gastroenteritis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, ankle infection, wound infection, and sinusitis.PATIENT CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSIS: We report a rare case of otitis with Salmonella in a previously healthy adolescent, which was most likely acquired after bathing in a lake. The ear infection was complicated with mastoiditis. Audiometric testing showed a moderately conductive hearing loss (60\xe2\x80\x8adB on pure-tone average).INTERVENTION: Standard therapy for S arizonae was initiated. The surgery revealed a "hidden" cholesteatoma. Surgical management comprised of canal wall up mastoidectomy with attico-antrotomy and posterior tympanotomy followed by tympanoplasty.OUTCOMES: Daily postoperative dressing care of the incision, along with antibiotic lavage of the external auditory canal packing, ensured a favorable evolution. The functional gain was important; the 1-month postsurgical pure tone audiogram indicated nearly normal hearing (a mean of 25\xe2\x80\x8adB for air conduction thresholds).LESSON: Salmonella enterica serotype arizonae is a rare cause of human infection, being a common organism in reptiles, like snakes and turtles. Young children are at a particular risk for acquiring such infections. Our study might encourage further epidemiologic investigations into these infections to generate a more effective strategy among public health agencies. labels: #Adolescent#Humans#Lakes#Male#Mastoiditis#Otitis Media#Salmonella Infections#Salmonella arizonae'
b'Crowding in emergency departments (EDs) is associated with long lengths of stay (LOS); however, it is not known whether the effect is equal across different chief complaints.The aim of the study was to compare the effect of crowding on LOS in the 10 most common medical or surgical chief complaints in the ED.All adult visits to a university hospital ED on weekdays between 8 AM and 9 PM in 2012 (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a19,200) were stratified based on chief complaint and triage priority. The ED bed occupancy rate was measured and crowding was defined as an occupancy rate over one. The impact of crowding on LOS was calculated for the different groups.During crowding, LOS was longer among all chief complaints (P \xe2\x89\xa4.01) (except for high-acuity patients with wounds, where the study group was very small). During crowding, LOS increased the most among patients with extremity pain/swelling (145% among high-acuity patients, 125% among low-acuity patients) and flank pain (87% among high-acuity patients, 117% among low-acuity patients) and the least among patients with chest pain (32% among high-acuity patients, 45% among low-acuity patients) or arrhythmia (37% among high-acuity patients, 52% among low-acuity patients).The effect of ED crowding on LOS is unequal across different chief complaints. These findings could be used to improve the processing of specific chief complaints in the ED. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cohort Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Crowding#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Hospitals, University#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Acuity#Time Factors#Triage#Young Adult'
b'This study aimed to observe the change in nonhigh-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) levels and analyzed its related factors in adults with prediabetes (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance).This case-controlled study included 56 adults with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) and 74 adults with prediabetes. The cases and controls were age and gender-matched. Anthropometric measurements including height, weight, waist circumference, and blood pressure were performed. All patients underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) after 8 hours of fasting, and the levels of glucose, insulin, lipids, and uric acid were measured.The levels of non-HDL-C (3.63\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.92 vs 3.27\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.00\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L) were significantly higher in prediabetic subjects than in NGT subjects (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Non-HDL-C positively correlated with HOMA-IR (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.253, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), triglyceride (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.204, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.020), and uric acid (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.487, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). After multivariate analysis, uric acid continued to be significantly associated with non-HDL-C (\xce\xb2\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.006, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000).Non-HDL-C is elevated in adults with prediabetes. A relationship between non-HDL-C and uric acid was observed. labels: #Adult#Anthropometry#Blood Glucose#Blood Pressure#Body Height#Body Weight#Case-Control Studies#Cholesterol#Fasting#Female#Glucose Intolerance#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Insulin#Lipids#Lipoproteins#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Prediabetic State#Uric Acid#Waist Circumference'
b'PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to explore surgical strategies for effectively treating spine fractures in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and investigate the postoperative outcomes.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 9 patients with AS that was complicated by spine fractures, who underwent surgery at our spine and spinal cord clinic between 2005 and 2012. The surgical methods included posterior instrumentation and bone grafting, with or without decompression. Fracture healing and neurological function recovery were observed postoperatively. The average follow-up period was 45.1 months (range: 24-60).RESULTS: The 9 patients included 7 men and 2 women. Eight patients were treated with long posterior fixation. One patient underwent combined long posterior fixation and anterior bone grafting. The neurological function of these patients improved significantly to varying degrees after surgery, and fracture union and segmental instability of the lumbar vertebrae were radiologically confirmed at the 1-month and 2-year follow-up intervals. Severe surgery-related complications were not observed.CONCLUSIONS: Posterior instrumentation with bone grafting was a satisfying method for treating spine fractures in patients with AS. labels: #Adult#Bone Transplantation#Combined Modality Therapy#Decompression, Surgical#Female#Fracture Fixation#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Spinal Fractures#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Treatment Outcome'
b'Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Due to the poor prognosis for patients not responding to first-line steroids treatment, improvements in aGVHD therapy are needed. Everolimus is a promising candidate that combines immunosuppressive properties with anti-neoplastic effects. Here, we retrospectively reviewed the efficacy of everolimus with steroids as primary treatment in 13 patients with grade II to grade IV aGVHD after HSCT. Among them, 12 (92.3%) had complete response to everolimus with steroids without additional immunosuppressive agents. The median duration of therapy was 76 days (range 20-110). Asymptomatic hypertriglyceridemia was the most common therapy complication (69.2%), but treatment interruption was not needed. Thrombotic microangiopathy was rare (7.7%), but can be quickly solved by stopping everolimus and cyclosporine treatment. Other toxicities were manageable. Two patients developed chronic GVHD (15.4%), limited in one and extensive in the other. The overall survival was 76.9% with a median follow-up of 3.4 years after HSCT (range 0.7-5.7). Accordingly, everolimus with steroids were feasible for patients with aGVHD after HSCT as primary treatment. Further large-scale studies are required. labels: #Acute Disease#Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#Cyclosporine#Drug Therapy, Combination#Everolimus#Feasibility Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Graft vs Host Disease#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Hypertriglyceridemia#Immunosuppressive Agents#Infant#Male#Pilot Projects#Retrospective Studies#Steroids#Thrombotic Microangiopathies#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: We investigated the sudden onset of static equilibrium dysfunction caused by cochlear implantation (CI) in congenital hearing loss patients.METHOD: Twenty-five patients were selected from a cohort of unilateral CI recipients to form the CI group. Static posturography was performed 1 to 3 days before and 3 to 5 days after CI. Each patient underwent the test with eyes open (EO) and eyes closed (EC) for 30\xe2\x80\x8aseconds, separately. Another group of age- and sex-matched patients with no history of hearing impairment undergoing unrelated surgeries formed the control group, and were examined with the same tests pre- and post-surgery. A third group of patients undergoing middle ear surgery formed the otitis media (OM) group. Postural sway parameters including sway velocity (SV) in the X-axis, SV in the Y-axis, length of sway locus length (LNG), and environmental area (ENV) were measured and recorded.RESULTS: Comparison of pre-surgery posturographical parameters between the CI and control groups revealed no significant differences. Significant differences were found in most parameters in pre- and post-surgery comparisons in the CI group. Mean SV values in the X-axis pre- and post-surgery were 8.48 and 11.52\xe2\x80\x8amm/s, respectively, in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), and 14.94 and 20.16\xe2\x80\x8amm/s, respectively, in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). In the Y-axis, mean SV values were 15.36 and 20.24\xe2\x80\x8amm/s pre- and post-surgery, respectively, in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The LNG values in the CI group pre- and post-surgery were 319.60 and 469.88\xe2\x80\x8amm in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), and 571.40 and 764.12\xe2\x80\x8amm in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). No significant functional equilibrium change was observed in the control group between pre- and post-surgery (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05) except SV in the X-axis and LNG in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). No significant pre- and post-surgery differences were found in the OM group.CONCLUSION: CI appeared to influence static equilibrium function within 1 week post-surgery. This influence was greater when eyes were closed. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Child#Cochlear Implantation#Cochlear Implants#Female#Hearing Loss#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postural Balance#Sensation Disorders#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: The fundamental pathogenesis of Beh\xc3\xa7et disease (BD) is still unclear and controversial. Many cases of oral aphthous ulcers and genital ulcers related to BD are reported; nevertheless, idiopathic giant esophageal ulcers related to BD are rare. A rare case for esophageal ulcers related to BD is presented.PATIENT CONCERNS: In China, BD is represented with esophageal involvement which is called esophageal BD (EBD).DIAGNOSES: A 56-year-old man diagnosed to the Gastroenterology Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine Hospital, for multiple discrete, elliptical esophageal ulcers related to BD.INTERVENTIONS: The esophageal ulcers were treated with corticosteroid treatment for 12 weeks.OUTCOME: The esophageal ulcers were cured.LESSONS: Our report might give further strength to avoiding the erroneous diagnosis or missed diagnosis for EBD, which is different from esophageal carcinoma, esophageal tuberculosis and esophageal Crohns disease. labels: #Adrenal Cortex Hormones#Behcet Syndrome#Esophageal Diseases#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Rare Diseases#Treatment Outcome#Ulcer'
b'RATIONALE: The multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as cediranib, sunitinib and pazopanib have been reported to be effective for alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS). The efficacy of pazopanib for the patient with lingual ASPS has yet to be reported.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 23-year old man presented with articulation disorder and swelling of the tongue. Diagnosis of lingual ASPS was made after incisional biopsy and complete excision of the mass was performed. Three months later, he presented with a protruding mental region.DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography revealed mental region mass and lung metastasis.INTERVENTIONS: After the failure of combination therapy of doxorubicin and ifosfamide, pazopanib was administered.OUTCOMES: Shrinkage of both the mental region and lung mass continued for more than two months, but regrowth was confirmed at the fourth month.LESSONS: Lingual ASPS is an exceedingly rare subset of ASPS with distinct molecular and histological characteristics and appropriate therapy remains to be established. Our findings suggest a possible therapeutic strategy for lingual ASPS. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Humans#Male#Pyrimidines#Sarcoma, Alveolar Soft Part#Sulfonamides#Tongue Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma (SSEH) is a relatively rare but potentially disabling disease, and the classical presentation of it includes an acute onset of severe, sometimes radiating back or neck pain, followed by signs and symptoms of rapidly evolving nerve root or spinal cord compression.PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report a 26-year-old female patient presented with weakness in bilateral lower extremities, progressing to intense paraplegia and anesthesia without recent medical history of trauma, infection, surgery, or drug use.DIAGNOSIS: A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of spinal cord was planned and a posterior epidural hematoma of the thoracic spine was observed.INTERVENTIONS: A posterior decompression and hematoma evacuation was performed after diagnosis immediately. Early rehabilitation program of the specific kind spinal cord injury was formulated and implemented.OUTCOMES: The patient finally can handle basic living activities, such as completing wheelchair locomotion, transferring from bed to wheelchair independently after 3 months of rehabilitation.LESSONS: SSEH is a rarely occurring case in emergency. Acute chest pain and paraplegia could be the initial presentation of acute spinal epidural hemorrhage, but the diagnosis of patient without classical manifestations is still a challenge for doctors. Early diagnosis, prompt decompression, and individualized rehabilitation program can improve the prognosis and outcome. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Adult#Decompression, Surgical#Female#Hematoma, Epidural, Spinal#Humans#Paraplegia#Paresis#Thoracic Vertebrae#Treatment Outcome#Wheelchairs'
b'Depression and suicidal ideation are prevalent mental health problems in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD. However, the association between mental health problems and kidney disease has been investigated in severe cases only. Thus, this study evaluated the relationship between mental health problems and renal function in a community-based prospective cohort study comprising patients with mild to moderate kidney disease. A total of 44,938 participants who were participated in Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey IV, V, and VI from 2007 to 2014 were enrolled. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using the CKD Epidemiology Collaboration equation. The study outcome was the prevalence of depression and suicidal ideations assessed by self-reporting surveys. Logistic regression analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between renal function and outcomes. The mean age of the study subjects was 49.2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.6 years, and the mean eGFR was 94.0\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am. The prevalence of depression and suicidal ideation increased with decreasing eGFR. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the risk of depression increased in subjects with eGFR<45\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am [odds ratio (OR) 1.47; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.09-1.98]. The risk of suicidal ideation gradually increased in groups with eGFR<90\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am (OR, 1.11; 95% CI, 1.03-1.20), even after adjustments for confounding variables. In conclusion, depression and suicidal ideation are related closely with renal dysfunction. The risk of having depression and suicidal ideation increased even in patient with mild renal dysfunction. Therefore, evaluation and management strategies regarding mental health problems should be taken into account throughout all stages of CKD. labels: #Adult#Depression#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nutrition Surveys#Odds Ratio#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Suicidal Ideation#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Uterine niche is defined as a triangular anechoic structure at the site of the scar or a gap in the myometrium at the site of a previous caesarean section. The main clinical manifestations are postmenstrual spotting and intrauterine infection, which may seriously affect the daily life of nonpregnant women. Trials have shown an excellent safety and efficacy for the potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a therapeutic option for scar reconstruction. Therefore, this study is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of using MSCs in the treatment for the uterine niche.METHODS/DESIGN: This phase II clinical trial is a single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled with 2 arms. One hundred twenty primiparous participants will be randomly (1:1 ratio) assigned to receive direct intramuscular injection of MSCs (a dose of 1*10 cells in 1\xe2\x80\x8amL of 0.9% saline) (MSCs group) or an identical-appearing 1\xe2\x80\x8amL of 0.9% saline (placebo-controlled group) near the uterine incision. The primary outcome of this trial is to evaluate the proportion of participants at 6 months who is found uterine niche in the uterus by transvaginal utrasonography. Adverse events will be documented in a case report form. The study will be conducted at the Department of Obstetric of Southern Medical University Affiliated Maternal&Child Health Hospital of Foshan.DISCUSSION: This trial is the first investigation of the potential for therapeutic use of MSCs for the management of uterine niche after cesarean delivery.CONCLUSION: This protocol will help to determine the efficacy and safety of MSCs treatment in uterine niche and bridge the gap with regards to the current preclinical and clinical evidence.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02968459 (Clinical Trials.gov: http://clinicaltrials.gov/). labels: #Adult#Cesarean Section#Cicatrix#Clinical Protocols#Cord Blood Stem Cell Transplantation#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Injections, Intramuscular#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Postoperative Complications#Pregnancy#Prospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Uterine Diseases#Uterus'
b"RATIONALE: Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by the abnormal accumulation of alveolar surfactant protein in alveolar spaces. Secondary PAP can result from myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).PATIENT CONCERNS: But most reports described a single case; here we reported 2 cases of PAP secondary to MDS. One case developed secondary PAP at the same time as MDS, and the other developed during the course of MDS.DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis of PAP was made by bronchoalveolar lavage and based on the identification of periodic acid-Schiff-positive proteinaceous material. Chest high resolution CT (HRCT) scans showed variable distribution of ground glass opacities, but crazy-paving appearance was not seen in our 2 cases.INTERVENTIONS: Because the patients' general conditions were poor, whole lung lavage was not used in the 2 cases.OUTCOMES: And the 2 cases' prognoses were poor.LESSONS: In conclusion, pulmonary physicians should suspect the possibility of secondary PAP when they encounter unexplained pulmonary infiltrates with some hematologic or infectious disease that shows diffuse bilateral GGO on an HRCT scan. labels: #Adult#Aged#Bronchoalveolar Lavage#Female#Humans#Male#Myelodysplastic Syndromes#Prognosis#Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis"
b'We retrospectively compared overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with single (3-5\xe2\x80\x8acm) hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A treated by surgical resection (SR), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), or transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).Of the 38,167 HCC patients registered between 2008 and 2010 at Korea Central Cancer Registry, National Cancer Center of South Korea, 13% patients were randomly abstracted, and 4596 patients could be analyzed. Of these 4596 patients, 337 patients with single 3 to 5\xe2\x80\x8acm sized HCC with BCLC stage A were enrolled. OSs and PFSs among SR (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a151), RFA (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a36), and TACE groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a150) were compared, respectively. Propensity score (PS) weighting was used to adjust differences among 3 groups.Median follow-up duration was 45 months (range, 1-73 months). After PS weighting, the cumulative OS rates were significantly higher in the SR (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and RFA (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.027) groups than in the TACE group, respectively, but not statistically different between SR and RFA groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.116). The cumulative PFS rates were significantly higher in the SR (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and RFA (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) groups than in the TACE group, respectively. TACE (hazard ratio [HR] 2.46, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), serum albumin (HR 0.57, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002), and tumor size (HR 1.66, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were predictors for OS. TACE (HR 3.14, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), serum bilirubin (HR 1.38, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.020), and tumor size (HR 1.32, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024) were predictors for PFS.RFA has better OS and PFS rates than TACE, and provides comparable survival outcomes compared with SR in single (3-5\xe2\x80\x8acm) HCC with BCLC stage A. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Catheter Ablation#Chemoembolization, Therapeutic#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hepatectomy#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Propensity Score#Proportional Hazards Models#Registries#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b"Because of the aging population and the shortage of standardized institutional solutions for long-term care (LTC) in China, family caregivers in Beijing are increasingly called upon to provide home care for disabled older adults. Caregivers face a heavy care burden, and decreased physical and mental health (MH). This study aims to describe health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and to identify its predictors for Chinese family caregivers of disabled older adults.A total of 766 caregivers were recruited from 5 communities in the Dongcheng District of Beijing. Measures included the 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), the Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI) scales, and the Chinese Social Support Rating Scale (SSRS). Hierarchical multiple regression (HMR) analysis was used to identify the predictors.HMR analysis showed that each block of independent variables (demographic characteristics of disabled older adults, demographic characteristics of caregivers, caregiving context, and subjective caregiver burden) had contributed significantly to caregivers' physical and mental quality of life. Subjective caregiver burden explained the greatest amount of total variance in all MH subscales and the 2nd greatest amount of variance in most physical subscales. Therefore, subjective caregiver burden was the strongest predictor of HRQoL.Our findings suggest that a decrease in caregiver burden can improve caregivers' HRQoL, and additional social support is important in decreasing the impact of caregiving on HRQoL. Importantly, an LTC system should be established in China as soon as possible. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Beijing#Caregivers#Cost of Illness#Cross-Sectional Studies#Disabled Persons#Female#Health Status#Health Surveys#Humans#Long-Term Care#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Regression Analysis#Social Support"
b'Lymphatic vessel invasion (LVI) is promising in determining prognosis and treatment strategies, but the application of LVI as a histopathological criterion in breast cancer patients especially those of different subgroups is controversial. This research aims to evaluate the prognostic value of LVI assessed by D2-40 not only in patients with early invasive breast cancer but also in lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, luminal B-like, HER2-enriched, and triple-negative subgroups.The study cohort included 255 patients with a median follow-up of 101 months. Immunohistochemical staining for D2-40 was performed to identify LVI.LVI was present in 64 (25.1%), 15 (12.1%), 49 (37.4%), 19 (20.9%), 23 (27.7%), 13 (31.7%), and 9 (22.5%), respectively, in the whole cohort, lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, luminal B-like, HER2-enriched, and triple-negative patients. LVI was associated with large tumor size (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04), high histological grade (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), involved lymph node (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and high expression of Ki-67 (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). No significant difference was found among patients with different subtypes and LVI status. The presence of LVI was significantly associated with adverse disease-free survival in the whole cohort (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), lymph node-negative (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), lymph node-positive (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), luminal A-like (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and luminal B-like patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) in both of the univariate and multivariate survival analysis.This study indicated that the presence of LVI stained by D2-40 provided independent prognostic information not only in the whole cohort but also in the subgroup of patients with lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, and luminal B-like diseases, which may make a case for routine clinical assessment of LVI using D2-40. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived#Biomarkers, Tumor#Breast Neoplasms#China#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lymphatic Metastasis#Lymphatic Vessels#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Prognosis'
b'RATIONALE: Infantile desmoid fibromatosis of the postcricoid area is a rare disease and is characterized by a proliferation of fibrous tissue with non-metastasis, local infiltration, and a high rate of recurrence after surgical resection. Currently, ultrasound is scarcely used in the hypopharynx and larynx area.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 4-year-old boy presented with hoarseness, deep voice and snoring for 2\xe2\x88\xbc4 years without any surgical history. On sonography, the lesion was found in the postcricoid area, and the left larynx showed impaired mobility in real time observation. Complete excision with a negative margin in this pivotal anatomic area is impossible, and necessitates a long-time surveillance.DIAGNOSES: Infantile desmoid fibromatosis of the postcricoid area was diagnosed according to surgery and histopathology.INTERVENTIONS: Local excision was carried out to relieve the upper airway narrowing.OUTCOMES: Relieved hoarseness and snoring were reported on the latest follow-up. A residual lesion was seen in the surgical bed and maintained a stable extent on ultrasound and MR imaging after a year.LESSONS: Considering the non-radiation merit and diagnostic ability, ultrasonography is advocated as a valuable supplementary imaging method to CT, MR and laryngoscopy in the juvenile larynx and hypopharynx. labels: #Child, Preschool#Cricoid Cartilage#Fibromatosis, Aggressive#Hoarseness#Humans#Laryngeal Neoplasms#Male#Ultrasonography'
b'Iron is an intracellular element whose accumulation in the body is associated with tissue damage. This study examines the effect of iron on pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and its "response to treatment." At the end of the first year of treatment, bone marrow iron store (BMIS) was evaluated in children with ALL and the relationship between iron store and minimal residual disease was investigated. Moreover, the 3-year disease-free survival (3-DFS) of patients was determined. Patients\' BMIS were compared with that of subjects with normal bone marrow. The study examined 93 children, including 78 Pre-B and 15 T-cell ALL patients. BMIS did not differ between the children with ALL and those with no evidence of cancer. BMIS was increased in 26.6% of patients at the end of the first year of treatment. Drug resistance and BM relapses were more prevalent in cases with high BMIS in both Pre-B and T-cell groups. Bone marrow iron store is not considered a risk factor for childhood ALL. However, high levels of BMIS are associated with poor response to treatment and the risk of relapse. Bone marrow iron store control during treatment can therefore help achieve better outcomes and improve the chances of recovery. labels: #Adolescent#Antineoplastic Agents#Bone Marrow#Child#Child, Preschool#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Humans#Infant#Iron#Male#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Tumor chemotherapy could weaken the immune system of patients, which might enhance the body sensitivities to the exogenous pathogens, among which the hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection should be concerned because of the higher chances of infection and the severe outcomes, especially in East Asia. The titer level of hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb) higher than 10\xe2\x80\x8aIU/L is considered to offer immunocompetent individuals adequate protection. However, whether this level is enough to the tumor patients during chemotherapy remains unclear.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 58-year-old female lymphoma patient was admitted to our hospital for asthenia, nausea, vomiting, and abnormal liver function lasting over 1 week and diagnosed as acute hepatitis B. The patient just finished a course of chemotherapy with CHOP regimen and had recent record (78.61\xe2\x80\x8aIU/L) of HBsAb positive. The only risk of infection we could found was that the patient had received blood transfusion shortly after chemotherapy from a donor who was recovering from an asymptomatic acute HBV infection.INTERVENTION: The patient was administered with entecavir and glycyrrhizic acid agent, and then the disease was resolved successfully with hepatitis B surface antigen serological conversion.LESSONS: Tumor chemotherapy might have weakened the immune system of the patient and enhanced the body sensitivities to hepatitis B virus, then led to the infection. We concluded that HBsAb-positive status, at least "weakly positive," might not enough to provide protection for tumor patients on chemotherapy though this level was enough for health individuals and donors recuperating from subclinical acute hepatitis B might be another potential risk of HBV infection. labels: #Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Antiviral Agents#Cyclophosphamide#Doxorubicin#Female#Guanine#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B Antibodies#Hepatitis B Surface Antigens#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Lymphoma#Middle Aged#Prednisolone#Transfusion Reaction#Vincristine'
b'Early rehabilitation after surgery for patellar fracture is challenging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the surgical outcome of titanium cable cerclage for patellar fracture in early functional activity.We reviewed a series of 24 patients treated at our hospital with titanium cable. Functional exercises were started early. Patients were followed up for at least 12 months.Fifteen were males and 9 were females. Fracture occurred in the right knee in 13 patients and in the left knee in 11 patients. The most common mode of injury involves a tumble. None of the patients presented with any postoperative complications. The management resulted in satisfactory outcomes.Titanium cable cerclage offers a new strategy in treating patellar fracture. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Bone Wires#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patella#Retrospective Studies#Titanium#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Surgical methods for type II odontoid fracture can be classified into 2 main groups: anterior or posterior approach. A more effective way to achieve bone fusion with the lowest possible surgical risk is needed. Therefore, the aim of our study was to describe and evaluate a novel technique, cable-dragged reduction/cantilever beam internal fixation for the treatment of type II odontoid fracture.This was a retrospective study enrolled 34 patients underwent posterior cable-dragged reduction/cantilever-beam internal fixation surgery. Medical records, rates of reduction, the location of the instrumentation and fracture healing during follow-up were analyzed. Once fracture healing was obtained, instrumentation was removed. Neck pain (scored using a visual analog scale [VAS]), neck stiffness, patient satisfaction, and neck disability index (NDI) were recorded before and after removing the instrumentation during follow-up.The mean duration of follow up was 22.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5.3 months. There was no iatrogenic damage to nerves or blood vessels. Radiographic evaluation showed complete reduction in the 20 patients with fracture displacement and satisfactory fracture healing in all 34 cases. Titanium cable breakage was observed in 4 patients after fracture healing. After removal of instrumentation, significant improvements were seen in neck-pain VAS score, neck stiffness, patient satisfaction, and NDI (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).Posterior cable-dragged reduction/cantilever-beam internal fixation was an optimal salvage maneuver to conventional surgical methods such as anterior screw fixation and C1-C2 screw-rod system. The operative difficulty and incidence of nerve and vascular injury were reduced. Its major disadvantage is the exposure and screw-setting at C3, which is left intact in traditional surgery, and it is suitable only for patients with intact C1 posterior arches. labels: #Adult#Bone Wires#Closed Fracture Reduction#Female#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fracture Healing#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neck Pain#Odontoid Process#Pain Measurement#Retrospective Studies#Salvage Therapy#Spinal Fractures#Titanium#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: The nasoseptal flap has been widely used to reconstruct skull base defects with excellent success rates. Recently, there were several attempts to use this flap for other defects. Patient concerns: We present the case of the nasoseptal flap reconstruction after oropharyngeal cancer resection.DIAGNOSIS: The diagnosis of this patient was oropharyngeal T3 squamous cell carcinoma.INTERVENTIONS: The surgical resection included the right radical tonsillectomy, uvular, and part of the soft palate and hard palate. The nasoseptal flap was sutured to the oropharyngeal defect.OUTCOMES: In spite of the radiation therapy, the nasoseptal flap was well healed to the oropharyngeal defect.LESSONS: We suggest that the nasoseptal flap may be a feasible reconstruction option for oropharyngeal defect after oropharyngeal cancer resection. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Humans#Male#Nasal Septum#Oropharyngeal Neoplasms#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgical Flaps#Treatment Outcome'
b'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for spirometry parameters have been limited to forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), and their ratio. This study examined to identify genetic variants associated with maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV), an important spirometry parameter presenting inspiratory muscle strength.A total of 8842 Korean subjects participated in the Korean Association REsource Consortium were used to identify nucleotide variants associated with MVV and other spirometry parameters through a GWAS. Genetic associations were determined by employing a mixed model that can control background polygenic effects.The analysis revealed 3 nucleotide variants associated with MVV (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10). One (rs1496255) was also associated with FVC and FEV1. The other 2 variants were identified only for MVV and located in the genes of LOC102724340 (rs41434646) and FHIT (rs9833533). In particular, FHIT represses transcriptional activity of \xce\xb2-catenin, a critical protein for growth of skeletal muscle, and thus might have influenced the level of MVV.The current study revealed 2 novel nucleotide variants as genetic association signals for MVV. The association signals were suggested specific for neuromuscular diseases with a restrictive ventilatory impairment. Further studies are required to understand underlying mechanisms for their influence to restrictive lung diseases. labels: #Acid Anhydride Hydrolases#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Carrier Proteins#Female#Forced Expiratory Volume#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Lung#Lung Diseases#Male#Maximal Voluntary Ventilation#Membrane Glycoproteins#Neoplasm Proteins#Republic of Korea#Spirometry#Vital Capacity'
b'Percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage followed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy (PTGBD+LC) is one treatment option for patients with moderate to severe acute cholecystitis (AC). However, the impact of PTGBD on operative difficulties in performing LC is controversial. We designed this retrospective study to clarify the surgical outcomes after PTGBD+LC for the management of patients with moderate to severe AC.The medical records of 85 patients who underwent LC for moderate to severe AC from January 2013 to September 2016 were evaluated. They were divided into 2 groups based on the type of management: group A received PTGBD+LC, and group B received LC without drainage. We compared the patient characteristics, laboratory data which were obtained immediately before surgery or PTGBD at index admission, and surgical outcomes between the 2 groups. We also evaluated possible predictive factors associated with prolonged operative duration after PTGBD+LC.Patients in group A were older and had more comorbidities than those in group B. The laboratory tests obtained at index admission in group A showed higher serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and alkaline phosphatase, and lower albumin levels than those in group B. The surgical outcomes after LC were similar between the 2 groups. However, operative duration was significantly shorter in group A (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). In group A, a higher serum level of CRP was a predictive factor for a prolonged operation (hazard ratio 1.126; 95% confidence interval 1.012-1.253; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.029). In conclusion, PTGBD+LC can shorten the operative duration in patients with moderate to severe AC, which might improve surgical outcomes in elderly patients with comorbidities, and elevated CRP values predicted a prolonged operation after PTGBD. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#C-Reactive Protein#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Cholecystitis, Acute#Combined Modality Therapy#Drainage#Elective Surgical Procedures#Female#Gallbladder#Humans#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: More mature or older women are more likely to undergo in vitro fertilization and embryo implant. These women have a greater chance of receiving ergonovine therapy because of a suspected abortion. We present this case report to call attention to a latent lethal adverse effect in everyday obstetric practice using ergonovine. It requires more attention and close monitoring PATIENT CONCERNS:: We presented the case of a 38-year-old female patient with general weakness and mild chest tightness after ergonovine use.DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as transient sick sinus syndrome and complete atrioventricular block with junctional escape rhythm after diagnostic work up.INTERVENTIONS: Conservative treatment with discontinuation of ergonovine and bed rest.OUTCOMES: Her sinus rhythm returned to normal the day after ergonovine was discontinued. The patient remained symptom-free since recovery of her sinus rhythm.LESSONS: Ergonovine may cause symptomatic and lethal bradyarrhythmia. Withdrawal of the causative medication and adequate supportive care can lead to a favorable outcome in these patients. More related cases should be reported. Further evaluation for treatment and prognosis are necessary. labels: #Adult#Atrioventricular Block#Bed Rest#Conservative Treatment#Ergonovine#Female#Humans#Oxytocics#Sick Sinus Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b'This protocol is an extension to: Nat. Protoc. 8, 491-500 (2013); doi:10.1038/nprot.2013.020; published online 14 February 2013RBDmap is a method for identifying, in a proteome-wide manner, the regions of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) engaged in native interactions with RNA. In brief, cells are irradiated with UV light to induce protein-RNA cross-links. Following stringent denaturing washes, the resulting covalently linked protein-RNA complexes are purified with oligo(dT) magnetic beads. After elution, RBPs are subjected to partial proteolysis, in which the protein regions still bound to the RNA and those released to the supernatant are separated by a second oligo(dT) selection. After sample preparation and mass-spectrometric analysis, peptide intensity ratios between the RNA-bound and released fractions are used to determine the RNA-binding regions. As a Protocol Extension, this article describes an adaptation of an existing Protocol and offers additional applications. The earlier protocol (for the RNA interactome capture method) describes how to identify the active RBPs in cultured cells, whereas this Protocol Extension also enables the identification of the RNA-binding domains of RBPs. The experimental workflow takes 1 week plus 2 additional weeks for proteomics and data analysis. Notably, RBDmap presents numerous advantages over classic methods for determining RNA-binding domains: it produces proteome-wide, high-resolution maps of the protein regions contacting the RNA in a physiological context and can be adapted to different biological systems and conditions. Because RBDmap relies on the isolation of polyadenylated RNA via oligo(dT), it will not provide RNA-binding information on proteins interacting exclusively with nonpolyadenylated transcripts. Applied to HeLa cells, RBDmap uncovered 1,174 RNA-binding sites in 529 proteins, many of which were previously unknown. labels: #Algorithms#Binding Sites#Gene Expression#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mass Spectrometry#Oligodeoxyribonucleotides#Protein Binding#Proteolysis#Proteomics#RNA, Messenger#RNA-Binding Motifs#RNA-Binding Proteins#Ultraviolet Rays'
b'We describe a sensitive, robust, high-throughput method for quantifying the ability of metastatic tumor cells to colonize a secondary organ. Metastasis is the leading cause of death in cancer patients, and successful colonization of the secondary organ is the rate-limiting step in the metastatic process; thus, experimental methods that can be used to interrogate the key factors required for this critical step are of great importance. The experimental metastasis assay we detail here includes tail-vein injection of cancer cells into the mouse and determination of the resulting secondary organ colonization, primarily in the lung, 10 d post dosing. This assay can be used to investigate factors that regulate metastatic colonization both at the tumor-cell-intrinsic level (via manipulation of the tumor cells before injection) and at the tumor-cell-extrinsic level (such as the tissue microenvironment, via the use of genetically modified (GM) mice or agents such as antibodies or drugs). Using this method, we have robustly screened more than 950 GM mouse lines to identify novel microenvironmental regulators of metastatic colonization. The experimental details discussed here include choosing of appropriate cell numbers, handling of the cells, selection of recipient animals and injection techniques. Furthermore, we discuss key experimental design considerations, including the choice of the method used to determine metastatic burden and statistical analysis of the results, as well as provide troubleshooting tips and identification of factors that contribute to experimental variability. labels: #Animals#Breast Neoplasms#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Cell Line, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Gene Editing#High-Throughput Screening Assays#Humans#Injections, Intravenous#Lung Neoplasms#Melanoma, Experimental#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Transplantation'
b'During 2014, 120,000 persons in the United States and Puerto Rico began treatment for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (i.e., kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplantation) (1). Among these persons, 44% (approximately 53,000 persons) had diabetes listed as the primary cause of ESRD (ESRD-D) (1). Although the number of persons initiating ESRD-D treatment each year has increased since 1980 (1,2), the ESRD-D incidence rate among persons with diagnosed diabetes has declined since the mid-1990s (2,3). To determine whether ESRD-D incidence has continued to decline in the United States overall and in each state, the District of Columbia (DC), and Puerto Rico, CDC analyzed 2000-2014 data from the U.S. Renal Data System and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. During that period, the age-standardized ESRD-D incidence among persons with diagnosed diabetes declined from 260.2 to 173.9 per 100,000 diabetic population (33%), and declined significantly in most states, DC, and Puerto Rico. No state experienced an increase in ESRD-D incidence rates. Continued awareness of risk factors for kidney failure and interventions to improve diabetes care might sustain and improve these trends. labels: #Adult#Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System#Diabetes Complications#Humans#Incidence#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Puerto Rico#Risk Factors#United States'
b'PROBLEM/CONDITION: Many rural residents work in the field of agriculture; however, employment in nonagricultural jobs also is common. Because previous studies in rural communities often have focused on agricultural workers, much less is known about the occupational exposures in other types of jobs in rural settings. Characterizing airborne occupational exposures that can contribute to respiratory diseases is important so that differences between rural and urban working populations can be assessed.REPORTING PERIOD: 1994-2011.DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM: This investigation used data from the baseline questionnaire completed by adult rural residents participating in the Keokuk County Rural Health Study (KCRHS). The distribution of jobs and occupational exposures to vapor-gas, dust, and fumes (VGDF) among all participants was analyzed and stratified by farming status (current, former, and never) then compared with a cohort of urban workers from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA). Occupational exposure in the last job was assessed with a job-exposure matrix (JEM) developed for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The COPD JEM assesses VGDF exposure at levels of none or low, medium, and high.RESULTS: The 1,699 KCRHS (rural) participants were more likely to have medium or high occupational VGDF exposure (43.2%) at their last job than their urban MESA counterparts (15.0% of 3,667 participants). One fifth (20.8%) of the rural participants currently farmed, 43.1% were former farmers, and approximately one third (36.1%) had never farmed. These three farming groups differed in VGDF exposure at the last job, with the prevalence of medium or high exposure at 80.2% for current farmers, 38.7% for former farmers, and 27.4% for never farmers, and all three percentages were higher than the 15.0% medium or high level of VGDF exposure for urban workers.INTERPRETATION: Rural workers, including those who had never farmed, were more likely to experience occupational VGDF exposure than urban workers.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: The occupational exposures of rural adults assessed using the COPD JEM will be used to investigate their potential association with obstructive respiratory health problems (e.g., airflow limitation and chronic bronchitis). This assessment might highlight occupations in need of preventive interventions. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Air Pollutants, Occupational#Cohort Studies#Dust#Female#Gases#Humans#Iowa#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Diseases#Occupational Exposure#Occupations#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Rural Population#Surveys and Questionnaires#Urban Population#Young Adult'
b"Preliminary estimates of U.S. drug overdose deaths exceeded 60,000 in 2016 and were partially driven by a fivefold increase in overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids (excluding methadone), from 3,105 in 2013 to approximately 20,000 in 2016 (1,2). Illicitly manufactured fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50-100 times more potent than morphine, is primarily responsible for this rapid increase (3,4). In addition, fentanyl analogs such as acetylfentanyl, furanylfentanyl, and carfentanil are being detected increasingly in overdose deaths (5,6) and the illicit opioid drug supply (7). Carfentanil is estimated to be 10,000 times more potent than morphine (8). Estimates of the potency of acetylfentanyl and furanylfentanyl vary but suggest that they are less potent than fentanyl (9). Estimates of relative potency have some uncertainty because illicit fentanyl analog potency has not been evaluated in humans. This report describes opioid overdose deaths during July-December 2016 that tested positive for fentanyl, fentanyl analogs, or U-47700, an illicit synthetic opioid, in 10 states participating in CDC's Enhanced State Opioid Overdose Surveillance (ESOOS) program.* Fentanyl analogs are similar in chemical structure to fentanyl but not routinely detected because specialized toxicology testing is required. Fentanyl was detected in at least half of opioid overdose deaths in seven of 10 states, and 57% of fentanyl-involved deaths also tested positive for other illicit drugs, such as heroin. Fentanyl analogs were present in>10% of opioid overdose deaths in four states, with carfentanil, furanylfentanyl, and acetylfentanyl identified most frequently. Expanded surveillance for opioid overdoses, including testing for fentanyl and fentanyl analogs, assists in tracking the rapidly changing illicit opioid market and informing innovative interventions designed to reduce opioid overdose deaths. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Benzamides#Drug Overdose#Female#Fentanyl#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#United States#Young Adult"
b'In 1988, the World Health Assembly launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) (1). Among the three wild poliovirus (WPV) serotypes, only type 1 (WPV1) has been detected since 2012. Since 2014, detection of WPV1 has been limited to three countries, with 37 cases in 2016 and 11 cases in 2017 as of September 27. The>99.99% decline worldwide in polio cases since the launch of the GPEI is attributable to the extensive use of the live, attenuated oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) in mass vaccination campaigns and comprehensive national routine immunization programs. Despite its well-established safety record, OPV use can be associated with rare emergence of genetically divergent vaccine-derived polioviruses (VDPVs) whose genetic drift from the parental OPV strains indicates prolonged replication or circulation (2). VDPVs can also emerge among persons with primary immunodeficiencies (PIDs). Immunodeficiency-associated VDPVs (iVDPVs) can replicate for years in some persons with PIDs. In addition, circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs) can emerge very rarely among immunologically normal vaccine recipients and their contacts in areas with inadequate OPV coverage and can cause outbreaks of paralytic polio. This report updates previous summaries regarding VDPVs (3). During January 2016-June 2017, new cVDPV outbreaks were identified, including two in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) (eight cases), and another in Syria (35 cases), whereas the circulation of cVDPV type 2 (cVDPV2) in Nigeria resulted in cVDPV2 detection linked to a previous emergence. The last confirmed case from the 2015-2016 cVDPV type 1 (cVDPV1) outbreak in Laos occurred in January 2016. Fourteen newly identified persons in 10 countries were found to excrete iVDPVs, and three previously reported patients in the United Kingdom and Iran (3) were still excreting type 2 iVDPV (iVDPV2) during the reporting period. Ambiguous VDPVs (aVDPVs), isolates that cannot be classified definitively, were found among immunocompetent persons and environmental samples in 10 countries. Cessation of all OPV use after certification of polio eradication will eliminate the risk for new VDPV infections. labels: #Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Global Health#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Infant#Male#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus#Poliovirus Vaccine, Oral#Serotyping#Sewage#Vaccines, Attenuated'
b"Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe pediatric diarrhea globally, estimated to have caused 120,000 deaths among children aged<5 years in sub-Saharan Africa in 2013 (1). In 2009, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended rotavirus vaccination for all infants worldwide (2). Two rotavirus vaccines are currently licensed globally: the monovalent Rotarix vaccine (RV1, GlaxoSmithKline; 2-dose series) and the pentavalent RotaTeq vaccine (RV5, Merck; 3-dose series). This report describes progress of rotavirus vaccine introduction (3), coverage (using estimates from WHO and the United Nations Children's Fund [UNICEF]) (4), and impact on pediatric diarrhea hospitalizations in the WHO African Region. By December 2016, 31 (66%) of 47 countries in the WHO African Region had introduced rotavirus vaccine, including 26 that introduced RV1 and five that introduced RV5. Among these countries, rotavirus vaccination coverage (completed series) was 77%, according to WHO/UNICEF population-weighted estimates. In 12 countries with surveillance data available before and after vaccine introduction, the proportion of pediatric diarrhea hospitalizations that were rotavirus-positive declined 33%, from 39% preintroduction to 26% following rotavirus vaccine introduction. These results support introduction of rotavirus vaccine in the remaining countries in the region and continuation of rotavirus surveillance to monitor impact. labels: #Africa#Child, Preschool#Feces#Humans#Immunization Programs#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Population Surveillance#Rotavirus#Rotavirus Infections#Rotavirus Vaccines#World Health Organization"
b'Vaccination is the most effective intervention to reduce morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in young children (1). Data from the 2016 National Immunization Survey-Child (NIS-Child) were used to assess coverage with recommended vaccines (2) among children aged 19-35 months in the United States. Coverage remained \xe2\x89\xa590% for \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of poliovirus vaccine (91.9%), \xe2\x89\xa51 dose of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (MMR) (91.1%), \xe2\x89\xa51 dose of varicella vaccine (90.6%), and \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of hepatitis B vaccine (HepB) (90.5%). Coverage in 2016 was approximately 1-2 percentage points lower than in 2015 for \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine (DTaP), \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of poliovirus vaccine, the primary Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) series, \xe2\x89\xa53 HepB doses, and \xe2\x89\xa53 and \xe2\x89\xa54 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), with no changes for other vaccines. More direct evaluation of trends by month and year of birth (3) found no change in coverage by age 2 years among children included in combined data from the 2015 and 2016 NIS-Child (born January 2012 through January 2015). The observed decreases in annual estimates might result from random differences in vaccination coverage by age 19 months between children sampled in 2016 and those sampled in 2015, among those birth cohorts eligible to be sampled in both survey years. For most vaccines, 2016 coverage was lower among non-Hispanic black* (black) children than among non-Hispanic white (white) children, and for children living below the federal poverty level\xe2\x80\xa0compared with those living at or above the poverty level. Vaccination coverage was generally lower among children insured by Medicaid (2.5-12.0 percentage points), and was much lower among uninsured children (12.4-24.9 percentage points), than among children with private insurance. The Vaccines for Children\xc2\xa7(VFC) program was designed to increase access to vaccines among children who might not otherwise be vaccinated because of inability to pay. Greater awareness and facilitating use of VFC might be helpful in reducing these disparities. Efforts should also be focused on minimizing breaks in continuity of health insurance and eliminating missed opportunities to vaccinate children during visits to health care providers. Despite the observed disparities and small changes in coverage from 2015, vaccination coverage among children aged 19-35 months remained high and stable in 2016. labels: #Child, Preschool#Ethnic Groups#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Insurance, Health#Poverty#United States#Vaccination#Vaccines'
b'Cyanobacteria, also known as blue-green algae, are photosynthetic, aquatic organisms found in fresh, brackish, and marine water around the world (1). Rapid proliferation and accumulation of potentially toxin-producing cyanobacteria characterize one type of harmful algal bloom (HAB). HABs have the potential to cause illness in humans and animals (2,3); however, the epidemiology of these illnesses has not been well characterized. Statewide in 2015, a total of 139 HABs were identified in New York, 97 (70%) of which were confirmed through laboratory analysis; 77 independent beach closures were ordered at 37 beaches on 20 different bodies of water. To better characterize HAB-associated illnesses, during June-September 2015, the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) implemented a pilot surveillance system in 16 New York counties. Activities included the collection of data from environmental HAB reports, illness reports, poison control centers, and syndromic surveillance, and increased outreach to the public, health care providers, and veterinarians. During June-September, 51 HAB-associated illnesses were reported, including 35 that met the CDC case definitions*; 32 of the cases occurred in humans and three in dogs. In previous years, New York never had more than 10 HAB-associated illnesses reported statewide. The pilot surveillance results from 16 counties during a 4-month period suggest that HAB-associated illnesses might be more common than previously reported. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Female#Harmful Algal Bloom#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#New York#Pilot Projects#Population Surveillance#Young Adult'
b"In 2016, 55 jurisdictions in 49 states and six cities in the United States* used immunization information systems (IISs) to collect and manage immunization data and support vaccination providers and immunization programs. To monitor progress toward achieving IIS program goals, CDC surveys jurisdictions through an annual self-administered IIS Annual Report (IISAR). Data from the 2013-2016 IISARs were analyzed to assess progress made in four priority areas: 1) data completeness, 2) bidirectional exchange of data with electronic health record systems, 3) clinical decision support for immunizations, and 4) ability to generate childhood vaccination coverage estimates. IIS participation among children aged 4 months through 5 years increased from 90% in 2013 to 94% in 2016, and 33 jurisdictions reported \xe2\x89\xa595% of children aged 4 months through 5 years participating in their IIS in 2016. Bidirectional messaging capacity in IISs increased from 25 jurisdictions in 2013 to 37 in 2016. In 2016, nearly all jurisdictions (52 of 55) could provide automated provider-level coverage reports, and 32 jurisdictions reported that their IISs could send vaccine forecasts to providers via Health Level 7 (HL7) messaging, up from 17 in 2013. Incremental progress was made in each area since 2013, but continued effort is needed to implement these critical functionalities among all IISs. Success in these priority areas, as defined by the IIS Functional Standards (1), bolsters clinicians' and public health practitioners' ability to attain high vaccination coverage in pediatric populations, and prepares IISs to develop more advanced functionalities to support state/local immunization services. Success in these priority areas also supports the achievement of federal immunization objectives, including the use of IISs as supplemental sampling frames for vaccination coverage surveys like the National Immunization Survey (NIS)-Child, reducing data collection costs, and supporting increased precision of state-level estimates. labels: #Child, Preschool#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Immunization#Immunization Programs#Infant#Information Systems#Program Evaluation#United States"
b'Natural sounds convey perceptually relevant information over multiple timescales, and the necessary extraction of multi-timescale information requires the auditory system to work over distinct ranges. The simplest hypothesis suggests that temporal modulations are encoded in an equivalent manner within a reasonable intermediate range. We show that the human auditory system selectively and preferentially tracks acoustic dynamics concurrently at 2 timescales corresponding to the neurophysiological theta band (4-7 Hz) and gamma band ranges (31-45 Hz) but, contrary to expectation, not at the timescale corresponding to alpha (8-12 Hz), which has also been found to be related to auditory perception. Listeners heard synthetic acoustic stimuli with temporally modulated structures at 3 timescales (approximately 190-, approximately 100-, and approximately 30-ms modulation periods) and identified the stimuli while undergoing magnetoencephalography recording. There was strong intertrial phase coherence in the theta band for stimuli of all modulation rates and in the gamma band for stimuli with corresponding modulation rates. The alpha band did not respond in a similar manner. Classification analyses also revealed that oscillatory phase reliably tracked temporal dynamics but not equivalently across rates. Finally, mutual information analyses quantifying the relation between phase and cochlear-scaled correlations also showed preferential processing in 2 distinct regimes, with the alpha range again yielding different patterns. The results support the hypothesis that the human auditory system employs (at least) a 2-timescale processing mode, in which lower and higher perceptual sampling scales are segregated by an intermediate temporal regime in the alpha band that likely reflects different underlying computations. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Auditory Perception#Behavior#Biomarkers#Electroencephalography#Evoked Potentials, Auditory#Female#Gamma Rhythm#Humans#Male#Nervous System Physiological Phenomena#Theta Rhythm#Time Factors#Young Adult'
b'Divergence of upstream regulatory pathways of the transcription factor Doublesex (Dsx) serves as a basis for evolution of sex-determining mechanisms in animals. However, little is known about the regulation of Dsx in environmental sex determination. In the crustacean Daphnia magna, environmental sex determination is implemented by male-specific expression of the Dsx ortholog, Dsx1. Transcriptional regulation of Dsx1 comprises at least three phases during embryogenesis: non-sex-specific initiation, male-specific up-regulation, and its maintenance. Herein, we demonstrate that the male-specific up-regulation is controlled by the bZIP transcription factor, Vrille (Vri), an ortholog of the circadian clock genes-Drosophila Vri and mammalian E4BP4/NFIL3. Sequence analysis of the Dsx1 promoter/enhancer revealed a conserved element among two Daphnia species (D. magna and D. pulex), which contains a potential enhancer harboring a consensus Vri binding site overlapped with a consensus Dsx binding site. Besides non-sex-specific expression of Vri in late embryos, we found male-specific expression in early gastrula before the Dsx1 up-regulation phase begins. Knockdown of Vri in male embryos showed reduction of Dsx1 expression. In addition, transient overexpression of Vri in early female embryos up-regulated the expression of Dsx1 and induced male-specific trait. Targeted mutagenesis using CRISPR/Cas9 disrupted the enhancer on genome in males, which led to the reduction of Dsx1 expression. These results indicate that Vri was co-opted as a transcriptional activator of Dsx1 in environmental sex determination of D. magna. The data suggests the remarkably plastic nature of gene regulatory network in sex determination. labels: #Animals#Basic-Leucine Zipper Transcription Factors#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Cloning, Molecular#DNA-Binding Proteins#Daphnia#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Loci#Genotyping Techniques#Male#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Sex Determination Processes'
b'Several conditions associated with reduced gastric acid secretion confer an altered risk of developing a gastric malignancy. Helicobacter pylori-induced atrophic gastritis predisposes to gastric adenocarcinoma, autoimmune atrophic gastritis is a precursor of type I gastric neuroendocrine tumours, whereas proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use does not affect stomach cancer risk. We hypothesised that each of these conditions was associated with specific alterations in the gastric microbiota and that this influenced subsequent tumour risk. 95 patients (in groups representing normal stomach, PPI treated, H. pylori gastritis, H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis and autoimmune atrophic gastritis) were selected from a cohort of 1400. RNA extracted from gastric corpus biopsies was analysed using 16S rRNA sequencing (MiSeq). Samples from normal stomachs and patients treated with PPIs demonstrated similarly high microbial diversity. Patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis also exhibited relatively high microbial diversity, but with samples dominated by Streptococcus. H. pylori colonisation was associated with decreased microbial diversity and reduced complexity of co-occurrence networks. H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis resulted in lower bacterial abundances and diversity, whereas autoimmune atrophic gastritis resulted in greater bacterial abundance and equally high diversity compared to normal stomachs. Pathway analysis suggested that glucose-6-phospahte1-dehydrogenase and D-lactate dehydrogenase were over represented in H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis versus autoimmune atrophic gastritis, and that both these groups showed increases in fumarate reductase. Autoimmune and H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis were associated with different gastric microbial profiles. PPI treated patients showed relatively few alterations in the gastric microbiota compared to healthy subjects. labels: #Achlorhydria#Adult#Aged#Autoimmune Diseases#Cluster Analysis#Cohort Studies#England#Female#Gastric Mucosa#Gastritis, Atrophic#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Helicobacter Infections#Helicobacter pylori#Hospitals, University#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Proton Pump Inhibitors#Risk#Stomach Neoplasms'
b'Norovirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis worldwide. Despite recent developments in norovirus propagation in cell culture, these viruses are still challenging to grow routinely. Moreover, little is known on how norovirus infects the host cells, except that histo-blood group antigens (HBGAs) are important binding factors for infection and cell entry. Antibodies that bind at the HBGA pocket and block attachment to HBGAs are believed to neutralize the virus. However, additional neutralization epitopes elsewhere on the capsid likely exist and impeding the intrinsic structural dynamics of the capsid could be equally important. In the current study, we investigated a panel of Nanobodies in order to probe functional epitopes that could trigger capsid rearrangement and/ or interfere with HBGA binding interactions. The precise binding sites of six Nanobodies (Nano-4, Nano-14, Nano-26, Nano-27, Nano-32, and Nano-42) were identified using X-ray crystallography. We showed that these Nanobodies bound on the top, side, and bottom of the norovirus protruding domain. The impact of Nanobody binding on norovirus capsid morphology was analyzed using electron microscopy and dynamic light scattering. We discovered that distinct Nanobody epitopes were associated with varied changes in particle structural integrity and assembly. Interestingly, certain Nanobody-induced capsid morphological changes lead to the capsid protein degradation and viral RNA exposure. Moreover, Nanobodies employed multiple inhibition mechanisms to prevent norovirus attachment to HBGAs, which included steric obstruction (Nano-14), allosteric interference (Nano-32), and violation of normal capsid morphology (Nano-26 and Nano-85). Finally, we showed that two Nanobodies (Nano-26 and Nano-85) not only compromised capsid integrity and inhibited VLPs attachment to HBGAs, but also recognized a broad panel of norovirus genotypes with high affinities. Consequently, Nano-26 and Nano-85 have a great potential to function as novel therapeutic agents against human noroviruses. labels: #Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antibody Affinity#Antiviral Agents#Binding Sites, Antibody#Binding, Competitive#Blood Group Antigens#Capsid#Capsid Proteins#Cross Reactions#Crystallography, X-Ray#Dynamic Light Scattering#Epitopes#Kinetics#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Models, Molecular#Norovirus#Protein Conformation#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Single-Domain Antibodies#Thermodynamics'
b'OBJECTIVES: To identify groups at risk of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection, patterns of antimicrobial resistance, and the proportion of patients with MRSA infections but no history of recent hospitalisation.DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Case series of 39 231 patients with S. aureus isolates from specimens processed by the Hunter New England Local Health District (HNELHD) public pathology provider during 2008-2014.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportion of MRSA infections among people with S. aureus isolates; antimicrobial susceptibility of MRSA isolates; origin of MRSA infections (community- or health care-associated); demographic factors associated with community-associated MRSA infections.RESULTS: There were 71 736 S. aureus-positive specimens during the study period and MRSA was isolated from 19.3% of first positive specimens. Most patients (56.9%) from whom MRSA was isolated had not been admitted to a public hospital in the past year. Multiple regression identified that patients with community-associated MRSA were more likely to be younger (under 40), Indigenous Australians (odds ratio [OR], 2.6; 95% CI, 2.3-2.8), or a resident of an aged care facility (OR, 4.7; 95% CI, 3.8-5.8). The proportion of MRSA isolates that included the dominant multi-resistant strain (AUS-2/3-like) declined from 29.6% to 3.4% during the study period (P<0.001), as did the rates of hospital origin MRSA in two of the major hospitals in the region.CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of MRSA in the HNELHD region decreased during the study period, and was predominantly acquired in the community, particularly by young people, Indigenous Australians, and residents of aged care facilities. While the dominance of the multi-resistant strain decreased, new strategies for controlling infections in the community are needed to reduce the prevalence of non-multi-resistant strains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Community-Acquired Infections#Female#Hospitals, Public#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#New South Wales#Oceanic Ancestry Group#Public Health#Regression Analysis#Seasons#Sex Distribution#Staphylococcal Infections#Young Adult'
b'OBJECTIVES: To describe trends in the age-specific incidence of serogroup B invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) in Australia, 1999-2015.DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS: Analysis in February 2017 of de-identified notification data from the Australian National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System of all notifications of IMD in Australia with a recorded diagnosis date during 1999-2015.Major outcomes: IMD notification rates in Australia, 1999-2015, by age, serogroup, Indigenous status, and region.RESULTS: The incidence of meningococcal serogroup B (MenB) disease declined progressively from 1.52 cases per 100 000 population in 2001 to 0.47 per 100 000 in 2015. During 2006-2015, MenB accounted for 81% of IMD cases with a known serogroup; its highest incidence was among infants under 12 months of age (11.1 [95% CI, 9.81-12.2] per 100 000), children aged 1-4 years (2.82 [95% CI, 2.52-3.15]per 100 000), and adolescents aged 15-19 years (2.40 [95% CI, 2.16-2.67] per 100 000). Among the 473 infants under 2 years of age with MenB, 43% were under 7 months and 69% under 12 months of age. The incidence of meningococcal serogroup C (MenC) disease prior to the introduction of the MenC vaccine in 2003 was much lower in infants than for MenB (2.60 cases per 100 000), the rate peaking in people aged 15-19 years (3.32 per 100 000); the overall case fatality rate was also higher (MenC, 8%; MenB, 4%). The incidence of MenB disease was significantly higher among Indigenous than non-Indigenous Australians during 2006-2015 (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 3.8; 95% CI, 3.3-4.5).CONCLUSIONS: Based on disease incidence at its current low endemic levels, priority at risk age/population groups for MenB vaccination include all children between 2 months and 5 years of age, Indigenous children under 10 years of age, and all adolescents aged 15-19 years. Given marked variation in meningococcal disease trends over time, close scrutiny of current epidemiologic data is essential. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Australia#Child#Child, Preschool#Epidemiological Monitoring#Female#Humans#Incidence#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Middle Aged#Neisseria meningitidis#Oceanic Ancestry Group#Serogroup#Vaccination#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Persistent low-level hemolysis (LLH) during continuous-flow mechanical circulatory support is associated with subsequent thrombosis. Free hemoglobin from ongoing hemolysis scavenges nitric oxide (NO) to create an NO deficiency which can augment platelet function leading to a prothrombotic state. The phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, sildenafil, potentiates NO signaling to inhibit platelet function. Accordingly, we investigated the association of sildenafil administration and thrombotic events in patients with LLH during Heart Mate II support.METHODS AND RESULTS: A single-center review of all patients implanted with a Heart Mate II who survived to discharge (n=144). LLH was defined by a discharge lactate dehydrogenase level of 400 to 700 U/L. Patients were categorized as (1) LLH not on sildenafil, (2) LLH on sildenafil, (3) no LLH not on sildenafil, and (4) no LLH on sildenafil. Age, sex, platelet count, and mean platelet volume were similar between groups. Seventeen patients had either device thrombosis or ischemic stroke. Presence of LLH was associated with a greater risk of thrombosis (adjusted hazard ratio, 15; 95% confidence interval, 4.5-50;P<0.001 versus no LLH, not on sildenafil). This risk was reduced in patients with LLH on sildenafil (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.2-16.1;P=0.61). Device thrombosis and ischemic stroke were associated with an increase in mean platelet volume (9.6\xc2\xb10.5 to 10.9\xc2\xb10.8 fL,P<0.001). Patients with LLH not on sildenafil had a greater increase in mean platelet volume in comparison to those with LLH on sildenafil (P<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Sildenafil is associated with reduced device thrombosis and ischemic stroke during ongoing LLH on Heart Mate II support. labels: #Brain Ischemia#Chi-Square Distribution#Disease-Free Survival#Heart Failure#Heart-Assist Devices#Hemolysis#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Mean Platelet Volume#Phosphodiesterase 5 Inhibitors#Proportional Hazards Models#Prosthesis Design#Protective Factors#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sildenafil Citrate#Stroke#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy type 1 (SMA1) is a progressive, monogenic motor neuron disease with an onset during infancy that results in failure to achieve motor milestones and in death or the need for mechanical ventilation by 2 years of age. We studied functional replacement of the mutated gene encoding survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) in this disease.METHODS: Fifteen patients with SMA1 received a single dose of intravenous adeno-associated virus serotype 9 carrying SMN complementary DNA encoding the missing SMN protein. Three of the patients received a low dose (6.7\xc3\x971013vg per kilogram of body weight), and 12 received a high dose (2.0\xc3\x971014vg per kilogram). The primary outcome was safety. The secondary outcome was the time until death or the need for permanent ventilatory assistance. In exploratory analyses, we compared scores on the CHOP INTEND (Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test of Neuromuscular Disorders) scale of motor function (ranging from 0 to 64, with higher scores indicating better function) in the two cohorts and motor milestones in the high-dose cohort with scores in studies of the natural history of the disease (historical cohorts).RESULTS: As of the data cutoff on August 7, 2017, all 15 patients were alive and event-free at 20 months of age, as compared with a rate of survival of 8% in a historical cohort. In the high-dose cohort, a rapid increase from baseline in the score on the CHOP INTEND scale followed gene delivery, with an increase of 9.8 points at 1 month and 15.4 points at 3 months, as compared with a decline in this score in a historical cohort. Of the 12 patients who had received the high dose, 11 sat unassisted, 9 rolled over, 11 fed orally and could speak, and 2 walked independently. Elevated serum aminotransferase levels occurred in 4 patients and were attenuated by prednisolone.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with SMA1, a single intravenous infusion of adeno-associated viral vector containing DNA coding for SMN resulted in longer survival, superior achievement of motor milestones, and better motor function than in historical cohorts. Further studies are necessary to confirm the safety and efficacy of this gene therapy. (Funded by AveXis and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02122952 .). labels: #Cohort Studies#Dependovirus#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Genetic Therapy#Genetic Vectors#Historically Controlled Study#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Infusions, Intravenous#Liver Diseases#Male#Motor Skills#Nutritional Support#Respiration, Artificial#Spinal Muscular Atrophies of Childhood#Survival of Motor Neuron 1 Protein"
b"BACKGROUND: There is limited information regarding the effects of spaceflight on the anatomical configuration of the brain and on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces.METHODS: We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to compare images of 18 astronauts' brains before and after missions of long duration, involving stays on the International Space Station, and of 16 astronauts' brains before and after missions of short duration, involving participation in the Space Shuttle Program. Images were interpreted by readers who were unaware of the flight duration. We also generated paired preflight and postflight MRI cine clips derived from high-resolution, three-dimensional imaging of 12 astronauts after long-duration flights and from 6 astronauts after short-duration flights in order to assess the extent of narrowing of CSF spaces and the displacement of brain structures. We also compared preflight ventricular volumes with postflight ventricular volumes by means of an automated analysis of T1-weighted MRIs. The main prespecified analyses focused on the change in the volume of the central sulcus, the change in the volume of CSF spaces at the vertex, and vertical displacement of the brain.RESULTS: Narrowing of the central sulcus occurred in 17 of 18 astronauts after long-duration flights (mean flight time, 164.8 days) and in 3 of 16 astronauts after short-duration flights (mean flight time, 13.6 days) (P<0.001). Cine clips from a subgroup of astronauts showed an upward shift of the brain after all long-duration flights (12 astronauts) but not after short-duration flights (6 astronauts) and narrowing of CSF spaces at the vertex after all long-duration flights (12 astronauts) and in 1 of 6 astronauts after short-duration flights. Three astronauts in the long-duration group had optic-disk edema, and all 3 had narrowing of the central sulcus. A cine clip was available for 1 of these 3 astronauts, and the cine clip showed upward shift of the brain.CONCLUSIONS: Narrowing of the central sulcus, upward shift of the brain, and narrowing of CSF spaces at the vertex occurred frequently and predominantly in astronauts after long-duration flights. Further investigation, including repeated postflight imaging conducted after some time on Earth, is required to determine the duration and clinical significance of these changes. (Funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.). labels: #Astronauts#Brain#Cerebral Ventricles#Cerebrum#Humans#Intracranial Pressure#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Middle Aged#Space Flight#Time Factors#Vision Disorders#Weightlessness"
b'BACKGROUND: Among adolescents with type 1 diabetes, rapid increases in albumin excretion during puberty precede the development of microalbuminuria and macroalbuminuria, long-term risk factors for renal and cardiovascular disease. We hypothesized that adolescents with high levels of albumin excretion might benefit from angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and statins, drugs that have not been fully evaluated in adolescents.METHODS: We screened 4407 adolescents with type 1 diabetes between the ages of 10 and 16 years of age and identified 1287 with values in the upper third of the albumin-to-creatinine ratios; 443 were randomly assigned in a placebo-controlled trial of an ACE inhibitor and a statin with the use of a 2-by-2 factorial design minimizing differences in baseline characteristics such as age, sex, and duration of diabetes. The primary outcome for both interventions was the change in albumin excretion, assessed according to the albumin-to-creatinine ratio calculated from three early-morning urine samples obtained every 6 months over 2 to 4 years, and expressed as the area under the curve. Key secondary outcomes included the development of microalbuminuria, progression of retinopathy, changes in the glomerular filtration rate, lipid levels, and measures of cardiovascular risk (carotid intima-media thickness and levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and asymmetric dimethylarginine).RESULTS: The primary outcome was not affected by ACE inhibitor therapy, statin therapy, or the combination of the two. The use of an ACE inhibitor was associated with a lower incidence of microalbuminuria than the use of placebo; in the context of negative findings for the primary outcome and statistical analysis plan, this lower incidence was not considered significant (hazard ratio, 0.57; 95% confidence interval, 0.35 to 0.94). Statin use resulted in significant reductions in total, low-density lipoprotein, and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, in triglyceride levels, and in the ratio of apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1, whereas neither drug had significant effects on carotid intima-media thickness, other cardiovascular markers, the glomerular filtration rate, or progression of retinopathy. Overall adherence to the drug regimen was 75%, and serious adverse events were similar across the groups.CONCLUSIONS: The use of an ACE inhibitor and a statin did not change the albumin-to-creatinine ratio over time. (Funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and others; AdDIT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01581476 .). labels: #Adolescent#Albuminuria#Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors#Area Under Curve#Child#Creatinine#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Lipids#Male#Medication Adherence'
b'BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder that is caused by an insufficient level of survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. Nusinersen is an antisense oligonucleotide drug that modifies pre-messenger RNA splicing of the SMN2 gene and thus promotes increased production of full-length SMN protein.METHODS: We conducted a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, phase 3 efficacy and safety trial of nusinersen in infants with spinal muscular atrophy. The primary end points were a motor-milestone response (defined according to results on the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination) and event-free survival (time to death or the use of permanent assisted ventilation). Secondary end points included overall survival and subgroup analyses of event-free survival according to disease duration at screening. Only the first primary end point was tested in a prespecified interim analysis. To control the overall type I error rate at 0.05, a hierarchical testing strategy was used for the second primary end point and the secondary end points in the final analysis.RESULTS: In the interim analysis, a significantly higher percentage of infants in the nusinersen group than in the control group had a motor-milestone response (21 of 51 infants [41%] vs. 0 of 27 [0%], P<0.001), and this result prompted early termination of the trial. In the final analysis, a significantly higher percentage of infants in the nusinersen group than in the control group had a motor-milestone response (37 of 73 infants [51%] vs. 0 of 37 [0%]), and the likelihood of event-free survival was higher in the nusinersen group than in the control group (hazard ratio for death or the use of permanent assisted ventilation, 0.53; P=0.005). The likelihood of overall survival was higher in the nusinersen group than in the control group (hazard ratio for death, 0.37; P=0.004), and infants with a shorter disease duration at screening were more likely than those with a longer disease duration to benefit from nusinersen. The incidence and severity of adverse events were similar in the two groups.CONCLUSIONS: Among infants with spinal muscular atrophy, those who received nusinersen were more likely to be alive and have improvements in motor function than those in the control group. Early treatment may be necessary to maximize the benefit of the drug. (Funded by Biogen and Ionis Pharmaceuticals; ENDEAR ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02193074 .). labels: #Age of Onset#Disease-Free Survival#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Infant#Injections, Spinal#Male#Motor Skills#Oligonucleotides#Oligonucleotides, Antisense#RNA, Messenger#Respiration, Artificial#Spinal Muscular Atrophies of Childhood#Survival Analysis#Survival of Motor Neuron 2 Protein'
b'The Pantanal is a hotspot for arbovirus studies in South America. Various medically important flaviviruses and alphaviruses have been reported in domestic and wild animals in the region. To expand the knowledge of local arbovirus circulation, a serosurvey for 14 Brazilian orthobunyaviruses was conducted with equines, sheep and free-ranging caimans. Sera were tested for specific viral antibodies using plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT). Monotypic reactions were detected for Maguari, Xingu, Apeu, Guaroa, Murutucu, Oriboca, Oropouche and Nepuyo viruses. Despite the low titers for most of the orthobunyaviruses tested, the detection of monotypic reactions for eight orthobunyaviruses suggests the Pantanal as a region of great orthobunyavirus diversity. The present data, in conjunction with previous studies that detected a high diversity of other arboviruses, ratify the Pantanal as an important natural reservoir for sylvatic and medically important arboviruses in Brazil. labels: #Alligators and Crocodiles#Animals#Animals, Domestic#Animals, Wild#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antibodies, Viral#Brazil#Bunyaviridae Infections#Horse Diseases#Horses#Orthobunyavirus#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Sheep#Sheep Diseases'
b'Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. This risk is magnified by certain antiretrovirals, particularly the protease inhibitor ritonavir, but the pathophysiology of this connection is unknown. We postulated that a major mechanism for antiretroviral-associated cardiac disease is pathologic fibrosis linked to platelet activation with release and activation of transforming growth factor (TGF)-\xce\xb21, and that these changes could be modeled in a murine system. We also sought to intervene utilizing inhaled carbon monoxide (CO) as proof-of-concept for therapeutics capable of regulating TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling and collagen autophagy. We demonstrate decreased cardiac function indices, including cardiac output, ejection fraction and stroke volume, and prominent cardiac fibrosis, in mice exposed to pharmacological doses of ritonavir. Cardiac output and fibrosis correlated with plasma TGF-\xce\xb21 levels. Mice with targeted deletion of TGF-\xce\xb21 in megakaryocytes/platelets (PF4CreTgfb1flox/flox) were partially protected from ritonavir-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis. Inhalation of low dose CO (250ppm), used as a surrogate for upregulation of inducible heme oxygenase/endogenous CO pathways, suppressed ritonavir-induced cardiac fibrosis. This occurred in association with modulation of canonical (Smad2) and non-canonical (p38) TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling pathways. In addition, CO treatment suppressed the M1 pro-inflammatory subset of macrophages and increased M2c regulatory cells in the hearts of RTV-exposed animals. The effects of CO were dependent upon autophagy as CO did not mitigate ritonavir-induced fibrosis in autophagy-deficient LC3-/- mice. These results suggest that platelet-derived TGF-\xce\xb21 contributes to ritonavir-associated cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, extending the relevance of our findings to other antiretrovirals that also activate platelets. The anti-fibrotic effects of CO are linked to alterations in TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling and autophagy, suggesting a proof-of-concept for novel interventions in HIV/antiretroviral therapy-mediated cardiovascular disease. labels: #Animals#Blood Platelets#Carbon Monoxide#Cardiac Output#Echocardiography#Fibrosis#HIV Protease Inhibitors#Heart Diseases#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Myocardium#Ritonavir#Stroke Volume#Transforming Growth Factor beta1'
b'Asthma represents an episodic and fluctuating behavior characterized with decreased complexity of respiratory dynamics. Several evidence indicate that asthma severity or control is associated with alteration in variability of lung function. The pathophysiological basis of alteration in complexity of breathing pattern in asthma has remained poorly understood. Regarding the point that Rho-kinase is involved in pathophysiology of asthma, in present study we investigated the effect of Rho-kinase inhibition on complexity of respiratory dynamics in a guinea pig model of asthma. Male Dunkin Hartley guinea pigs were exposed to 12 series of inhalations with ovalbumin or saline. Animals were treated by the Rho-kinase inhibitor Y-27632 (1mM aerosols) prior to each allergen challenge. We recorded respiration of conscious animals using whole-body plethysmography. Exposure to ovalbumin induced lung inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling including goblet cell hyperplasia, increase in the thickness of airways smooth muscles and subepithelial collagen deposition. Complexity analysis of respiratory dynamics revealed a dramatic decrease in irregularity of respiratory rhythm representing less complexity in asthmatic guinea pigs. Inhibition of Rho-kinase reduced the airway remodeling and hyperreponsiveness, but had no significant effect on lung inflammation and complexity of respiratory dynamics in asthmatic animals. It seems that airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling do not significantly affect the complexity of respiratory dynamics. Our results suggest that inflammation might be the probable cause of shift in the respiratory dynamics away from the normal fluctuation in asthma. labels: #Amides#Animals#Asthma#Disease Models, Animal#Guinea Pigs#Male#Plethysmography, Whole Body#Pyridines#Respiration#Respiratory Physiological Phenomena#rho-Associated Kinases'
b"This study aimed to explore an evidence-based nursing practice model of CRF management in hospitalized adult patients using the PARIHS evidence-implementation framework as the theoretical structure to provide guidance for similar nursing practices. The implementation of guideline evidence into clinical practice was conducted on the oncology and radiotherapy wards of a university-affiliated hospital. The process of integrating the guideline into the symptom management system of cancer patients was described. The impact of the evidence implementation was evaluated from three aspects: organizational innovations and outcome measures associated with nurses and with patients pre- and post-evidence implementation. During the implementation of evidence into practice on the wards, a nursing process, health education, a quality control sheet and CRF training courses were established. Through this implementation, compliance with evidence related to CRF increased significantly on the two wards, with that of ward B being higher than that of ward A. Regarding nursing outcomes, nursing knowledge, attitude and behavior scores with respect to CRF nursing care increased substantially after its application on the two wards, and the ward B nurses' scoring was higher than that of the ward A nurses. Qualitative analysis concerning the nurses suggested that leadership, patient concern about CRF management, and the need for professional development were the main motivators of the application, whereas the shortage and mobility of nursing human resources and insufficient communication between doctors and nurses were the main barriers. Additionally, most nurses felt more professional and confident about their work. Regarding patient outcomes, patient knowledge, attitude and behavior scores regarding CRF self-management increased significantly. Patients' post-implementation CRF was alleviated compared with the pre-implementation treatment cycle. The PARIHS framework may provide instructive guidance for the incorporation of evidence into practice, and the process-oriented framework might provide greater operational utility of the application. labels: #Adult#Attitude of Health Personnel#Evidence-Based Nursing#Fatigue#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoplasms#Oncology Nursing#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'Recent developments in high throughput genomic assays have opened up the possibility of testing hundreds and thousands of genes simultaneously. However, adhering to the regular statistical assumptions regarding the null distributions of test statistics in such large-scale multiple testing frameworks has the potential of leading to incorrect significance testing results and biased inference. This problem gets worse when one combines results from different independent genomic experiments with a possibility of ending up with gross false discoveries of significant genes. In this article, we develop a meta-analysis method of combining p-values from different independent experiments involving large-scale multiple testing frameworks, through empirical adjustments of the individual test statistics and p-values. Even though, it is based on various existing ideas, this specific combination is novel and potentially useful. Through simulation studies and real genomic datasets we show that our method outperforms the standard meta-analysis approach of significance testing in terms of accurately identifying the truly significant set of genes. labels: #Data Interpretation, Statistical#Empirical Research#Gene Expression#Genes#Genomics#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Meta-Analysis as Topic#Models, Statistical#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis#Statistics as Topic'
b'BACKGROUND: Sleep-related problems are known risk factors for road accidents. However, very few studies have investigated the role played by insomnia and its components, and no data are available for a population of occupational drivers at risk, such as the truck driver category.OBJECTIVE: To measure the prevalence and impact of insomnia on motor vehicle accidents (MVAs) and near-miss accidents (NMAs) in 949 truck drivers.DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey.RESULTS: Insomnia affected 27.5% of the sample. Compared to other drivers, in the 3 years prior to the study, truck drivers with insomnia had reported a significantly higher number of MVAs; they had also reported a greater number of NMAs in the previous 6 months. After correction for the presence of obstructive sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, short sleep duration, and other concurrent diseases, insomniac truck drivers had an almost two-fold risk of driving accidents (OR: 1.82, CI 95%:1.33-2.49) and a more than three-fold increased risk of near-miss accidents (OR: 3.35, CI95%:2.06-5.45) compared to non-insomniac drivers.CONCLUSION: Insomnia emerged as an independent risk factor for MVAs and NMAs. We strongly advise screening commercial drivers for signs and symptoms of insomnia in order to improve health and safety on the road. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Automobile Driving#Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Vehicles#Occupational Diseases#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'Laboratory mice play a tremendous role in biomedical research in studies on immunology, infection, cancer and therapy. In the course of standardization of mice used in animal experiments, health monitoring constitutes an important instrument towards microbiological standardization. Infections with murine astroviruses (MuAstV) were only recently discovered and are, therefore, still relatively unknown in laboratory animal science. In rodent health monitoring viral infections within a population are commonly assessed in terms of specific antibodies by serological testing, as active infection and excretion of virus is often temporary and can easily be missed. So far only ongoing infections with astroviruses can be detected by PCR. The objective of this work was the development of a sensitive and specific MuAstV multiplex serological assay with a high-throughput capability to be used in routine testing of laboratory mice. Four different MuAstV proteins were recombinantly expressed and used as antigens. The best reacting antigen, the capsid spike protein VP27, was selected and tested with a panel of 400 sera of mice from units with a known MuAstV status. Assay sensitivity and specificity resulted in 98.5% and 100%, respectively, compared to RT-PCR results. Eventually this assay was used to test 5529 serum samples in total, during routine diagnostics at the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) in Heidelberg between 2015 and 2017. High sero-prevalence rates of up to 98% were detected in units with open cages indicating that the virus is highly infectious and circulates within these populations virtually infecting all animals regardless of the mouse strain. In addition, data collected from 312 mice purchased from commercial breeders and from 661 mice from 58 research institutes in 15 countries worldwide allowed the conclusion that MuAstV is widespread in contemporary laboratory mouse populations. labels: #Animals#Animals, Laboratory#Antibodies, Viral#Astroviridae#Astroviridae Infections#Mice#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sensitivity and Specificity#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Serologic Tests'
b'Adenocarcinoma of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) is a severe disease. Patients carrying EGFR mutations may benefit from EGFR targeted therapies (e.g.: gefitinib). Recently, it has been shown that sialidase NEU3 directly interacts and regulates EGFR. In this work, we investigate the effect of sialidase NEU3 overexpression on EGFR pathways activation and EGFR targeted therapies sensitivity, in a series of lung cancer cell lines. NEU3 overexpression, forced after transfection, does not affect NSCLC cell viability. We demonstrate that NEU3 overexpression stimulates the ERK pathway but this activation is completely abolished by gefitinib treatment. The Akt pathway is also hyper-activated upon NEU3 overexpression, but gefitinib is able only to decrease, and not to abolish, such activation. These findings indicate that NEU3 can act directly on the ERK pathway through EGFR and both directly and indirectly with respect to EGFR on the Akt pathway. Furthermore, we provide evidence that a healthy mucosa cell line (with EGFR wild-type gene sequence) is slightly sensitive to gefitinib, especially in the presence of NEU3 overexpression, thus hypothesizing that NEU3 overexpressing patients may benefit from EGFR targeted therapies also in absence of EGFR point mutations. Overall, the expression of NEU3 may be a novel diagnostic marker in NSCLC because, by its ability to stimulate EGFR downstream pathways with direct and indirect mechanisms, it may help in the identification of patients who can profit from EGFR targeted therapies in absence of EGFR activating mutations or from new combinations of EGFR and Akt inhibitors. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Blotting, Western#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Membrane#Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Neuraminidase#Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Quinazolines#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction'
b'Recent studies have highlighted the importance of local environmental factors to determine the fine-scale heterogeneity of malaria transmission and exposure to the vector. In this work, we compare a classical GLM model with backward selection with different versions of an automatic LASSO-based algorithm with 2-level cross-validation aiming to build a predictive model of the space and time dependent individual exposure to the malaria vector, using entomological and environmental data from a cohort study in Benin. Although the GLM can outperform the LASSO model with appropriate engineering, the best model in terms of predictive power was found to be the LASSO-based model. Our approach can be adapted to different topics and may therefore be helpful to address prediction issues in other health sciences domains. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Anopheles#Humans#Malaria#Models, Statistical'
b"INTRODUCTION: Primary Sj\xc3\xb6gren's Syndrome (pSS) affects exocrine glands such as those producing the tear film, leading to dry and painful eyes, but is also associated with fatigue. The experience of fatigue in pSS, and its relationship with sicca symptoms, is poorly understood.METHODS: Twenty people diagnosed with pSS were recruited to participate in a semi-structured qualitative interview about their symptoms experience. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim and analysed using thematic analysis.RESULTS: People with pSS described physical tiredness, mental fatigue and ocular fatigue. Mental fatigue was characterised by difficulties in attention, particularly, the ability to follow conversations and short-term memory problems. Participants linked their experience of fatigue to feeling of depression, frustration, irritation and anxiety, and therefore, fatigue was suggested to have had a large impact on their psychological well-being. People with pSS also described a range of ocular symptoms including pain, dryness, and itching, which were compounded by fatigue. For some, eye fatigue was pervasive, and daily activities involving the eyes such as reading, using the computer and driving were impaired. In some cases, the level of ocular discomfort was so severe it prevented sleep, which in turn impacted on general fatigue levels.CONCLUSIONS: People with pSS experience fatigue in a range of ways; physical, mental and ocular fatigue were described. Fatigue was suggested to exacerbate other ocular symptoms, posed serious physical limitations and caused psychological distress. Further research into the nature of fatigue and ocular symptoms in pSS is required. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asthenopia#Fatigue#Female#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Middle Aged#Qualitative Research#Sjogren's Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'Wing morphology strongly affects flight performance which may consequently decline during feather moult due to the creation of feather gaps in the wing. Hence, the size and shape of moult-related wing gap may directly affect flight capacity. Here I examined the rare divergent primary moult sequence compared to the more common descendant moult sequence. In the divergent moult, the focus of primary moult is shifted from P1 (primary feather numbered descendantly) to another primary between P2 and P5, and then primaries are moulted in two concurrent waves, one descendant and the other ascendant. The result of this rare moult sequence is the splitting of the wing gap to two smaller gaps. Using a large moult database including 6,763 individuals of 32 Western Palaearctic passerine species, I found evidence of divergent moult only among 27 individuals of 12 species. I examined the speed of wing-feather moult for each individual that moulted divergently compared to a control group of individuals at the same moult stage which moulted following the common descending sequence. The results indicate that the sequence of primary moult and moult speed are correlated. Individuals which moulted divergently moulted their primaries with higher moult speed than descendant moulters. The applicability of this study is weakened by the dearth of moult data, thus making it difficult to draw conclusions for a large range of species. Ornithologists and bird ringers are therefore encouraged to collect more basic moult data during their field study. labels: #Animals#Feathers#Flight, Animal#Israel#Molting#Passeriformes#Songbirds#Time Factors#Wings, Animal'
b'Vitamin D is a secosteroid hormone with many varied functions including regulation of blood calcium levels, cell proliferation, immunity, and reproduction in mammals. Vitamin D is activated by 25-hydroxylase (CYP2R1) and 1-alpha-hydroxylase (CYP27B1) and is degraded by 24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1). Vitamin D is transported by vitamin D-binding protein (group-specific component, GC) through the bloodstream and regulates cellular actions by binding to vitamin D receptor (VDR). In this study, we determined the expression and regulation of vitamin D-related molecules and the role of vitamin D at the maternal-conceptus interface in pigs. Vitamin D-metabolizing enzymes CYP2R1, CYP27B1, and CYP24A1, vitamin D binding protein GC, and vitamin D receptor VDR were expressed in the endometrium in a pregnancy stage-specific manner as well as in conceptus and chorioallantoic tissues during pregnancy. VDR protein was localized to endometrial and trophoblastic cells. Concentrations of calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D, in the endometrial tissues were higher during early pregnancy than in mid- to late pregnancy, while plasma concentrations of calcitriol were highest during late pregnancy. Furthermore, calcitriol affected the expression of several genes related to conceptus implantation, vitamin D metabolism, calcium ion regulation, PG metabolism, and calcium-binding proteins in endometrial tissue explants. These results show that CYP2R1, CYP27B1, CYP24A1, GC, and VDR were expressed at the maternal-conceptus interface, endometrial calcitriol levels were regulated during pregnancy, and calcitriol modulated the expression of endometrial genes, suggesting that calcitriol may play an important role in the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy by regulating endometrial function in pigs. labels: #25-Hydroxyvitamin D3 1-alpha-Hydroxylase#Animals#Cholestanetriol 26-Monooxygenase#Chorioallantoic Membrane#Endometrium#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Pregnancy#Receptors, Calcitriol#Swine#Vitamin D#Vitamin D-Binding Protein#Vitamin D3 24-Hydroxylase'
b'BACKGROUND: Besides inclusion in 1st line regimens against tuberculosis (TB), pyrazinamide (PZA) is used in 2nd line anti-TB regimens, including in the short regimen for multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) patients. Guidelines and expert opinions are contradictory about inclusion of PZA in case of resistance. Moreover, drug susceptibility testing (DST) for PZA is not often applied in routine testing, and the prevalence of resistance is unknown in several regions, including in most African countries.METHODS: Six hundred and twenty-three culture isolates from rifampicin-resistant (RR) patients were collected in twelve Sub-Saharan African countries. Among those isolates, 71% were from patients included in the study on the Union short-course regimen for MDR-TB in Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Niger, and Rwanda PZA resistance, and the rest (29%) were consecutive isolates systematically stored from 2014-2015 in Mali, Rwanda, Senegal, and Togo. Besides national guidelines, the isolates were tested for PZA resistance through pncA gene sequencing.RESULTS: Over half of these RR-TB isolates (54%) showed a mutation in the pncA gene, with a significant heterogeneity between countries. Isolates with fluoroquinolone resistance (but not with injectable resistance or XDR) were more likely to have concurrent PZA resistance. The pattern of mutations in the pncA gene was quite diverse, although some isolates with an identical pattern of mutations in pncA and other drug-related genes were isolated from the same reference center, suggesting possible transmission of these strains.CONCLUSION: Similar to findings in other regions, more than half of the patients having RR-TB in West and Central Africa present concomitant resistance to PZA. Further investigations are needed to understand the relation between resistance to PZA and resistance to fluoroquinolones, and whether continued use of PZA in the face of PZA resistance provides clinical benefit to the patients. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Africa South of the Sahara#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Amidohydrolases#Antitubercular Agents#Child#Drug Resistance, Multiple, Bacterial#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Pyrazinamide#Rifampin#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary#Young Adult'
b"Panoramic views of natural environments provide visually navigating animals with two kinds of information: they define locations because image differences increase smoothly with distance from a reference location and they provide compass information, because image differences increase smoothly with rotation away from a reference orientation. The range over which a given reference image can provide navigational guidance (its 'catchment area') has to date been quantified from the perspective of walking animals by determining how image differences develop across the ground plane of natural habitats. However, to understand the information available to flying animals there is a need to characterize the 'catchment volumes' within which panoramic snapshots can provide navigational guidance. We used recently developed camera-based methods for constructing 3D models of natural environments and rendered panoramic views at defined locations within these models with the aim of mapping navigational information in three dimensions. We find that in relatively open woodland habitats, catchment volumes are surprisingly large extending for metres depending on the sensitivity of the viewer to image differences. The size and the shape of catchment volumes depend on the distance of visual features in the environment. Catchment volumes are smaller for reference images close to the ground and become larger for reference images at some distance from the ground and in more open environments. Interestingly, catchment volumes become smaller when only above horizon views are used and also when views include a 1 km distant panorama. We discuss the current limitations of mapping navigational information in natural environments and the relevance of our findings for our understanding of visual navigation in animals and autonomous robots. labels: #Animals#Ecosystem#Environment#Models, Theoretical#Photography#Spatial Navigation"
b'BACKGROUND: Despite the immense literature related to diverse human electroencephalographic (EEG) parameters, very few studies have focused on the reliability of these measures. Some of the most studied components (i.e., P3 or MMN) have received more attention regarding the stability of their main parameters, such as latency, amplitude or topography. However, spectral modulations have not been as extensively evaluated considering that different analysis methods are available. The main aim of the present study is to assess the reliability of the latency, amplitude and topography of event-related desynchronization (ERD) for the alpha band (10-14 Hz) observed in a cognitive task (visual oddball). Topography reliability was analysed at different levels (for the group, within-subjects individually and between-subjects individually).RESULTS: The latency for alpha ERD showed stable behaviour between two sessions, and the amplitude exhibited an increment (more negative) in the second session. Alpha ERD topography exhibited a high correlation score between sessions at the group level (r = 0.903, p<0.001). The mean value for within-subject correlations was 0.750 (with a range from 0.391 to 0.954). Regarding between-subject topography comparisons, some subjects showed a highly specific topography, whereas other subjects showed topographies that were more similar to those of other subjects.CONCLUSION: ERD was mainly stable between the two sessions with the exception of amplitude, which exhibited an increment in the second session. Topography exhibits excellent reliability at the group level; however, it exhibits highly heterogeneous behaviour at the individual level. Considering that the P3 was previously evaluated for this group of subjects, a direct comparison of the correlation scores was possible, and it showed that the ERD component is less reliable in individual topography than in the ERP component (P3). labels: #Adult#Alpha Rhythm#Brain#Cognition#Electroencephalography#Electroencephalography Phase Synchronization#Evoked Potentials#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Reproducibility of Results#Young Adult'
b'Neuroprosthetics research in amputee patients aims at developing new prostheses that move and feel like real limbs. Targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation (TMSR) is such an approach and consists of rerouting motor and sensory nerves from the residual limb towards intact muscles and skin regions. Movement of the myoelectric prosthesis is enabled via decoded electromyography activity from reinnervated muscles and touch sensation on the missing limb is enabled by stimulation of the reinnervated skin areas. Here we ask whether and how motor control and redirected somatosensory stimulation provided via TMSR affected the maps of the upper limb in primary motor (M1) and primary somatosensory (S1) cortex, as well as their functional connections. To this aim, we tested three TMSR patients and investigated the extent, strength, and topographical organization of the missing limb and several control body regions in M1 and S1 at ultra high-field (7 T) functional magnetic resonance imaging. Additionally, we analysed the functional connectivity between M1 and S1 and of both these regions with fronto-parietal regions, known to be important for multisensory upper limb processing. These data were compared with those of control amputee patients (n = 6) and healthy controls (n = 12). We found that M1 maps of the amputated limb in TMSR patients were similar in terms of extent, strength, and topography to healthy controls and different from non-TMSR patients. S1 maps of TMSR patients were also more similar to normal conditions in terms of topographical organization and extent, as compared to non-targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation patients, but weaker in activation strength compared to healthy controls. Functional connectivity in TMSR patients between upper limb maps in M1 and S1 was comparable with healthy controls, while being reduced in non-TMSR patients. However, connectivity was reduced between S1 and fronto-parietal regions, in both the TMSR and non-TMSR patients with respect to healthy controls. This was associated with the absence of a well-established multisensory effect (visual enhancement of touch) in TMSR patients. Collectively, these results show how M1 and S1 process signals related to movement and touch are enabled by targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation. Moreover, they suggest that TMSR may counteract maladaptive cortical plasticity typically found after limb loss, in M1, partially in S1, and in their mutual connectivity. The lack of multisensory interaction in the present data suggests that further engineering advances are necessary (e.g. the integration of somatosensory feedback into current prostheses) to enable prostheses that move and feel as real limbs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Amputation#Artificial Limbs#Brain Mapping#Electromyography#Female#Functional Neuroimaging#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Cortex#Movement#Muscle, Skeletal#Neuronal Plasticity#Skin#Somatosensory Cortex#Touch#Upper Extremity'
b'The presynaptic, high-affinity choline transporter is a critical determinant of signalling by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at both central and peripheral cholinergic synapses, including the neuromuscular junction. Here we describe an autosomal recessive presynaptic congenital myasthenic syndrome presenting with a broad clinical phenotype due to homozygous choline transporter missense mutations. The clinical phenotype ranges from the classical presentation of a congenital myasthenic syndrome in one patient (p.Pro210Leu), to severe neurodevelopmental delay with brain atrophy (p.Ser94Arg) and extend the clinical outcomes to a more severe spectrum with infantile lethality (p.Val112Glu). Cells transfected with mutant transporter construct revealed a virtually complete loss of transport activity that was paralleled by a reduction in transporter cell surface expression. Consistent with these findings, studies to determine the impact of gene mutations on the trafficking of the Caenorhabditis elegans choline transporter orthologue revealed deficits in transporter export to axons and nerve terminals. These findings contrast with our previous findings in autosomal dominant distal hereditary motor neuropathy of a dominant-negative frameshift mutation at the C-terminus of choline transporter that was associated with significantly reduced, but not completely abrogated choline transporter function. Together our findings define divergent neuropathological outcomes arising from different classes of choline transporter mutation with distinct disease processes and modes of inheritance. These findings underscore the essential role played by the choline transporter in sustaining acetylcholine neurotransmission at both central and neuromuscular synapses, with important implications for treatment and drug selection. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Atrophy#Axons#Brain#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Child, Preschool#Female#HEK293 Cells#Homozygote#Humans#Infant#Male#Membrane Transport Proteins#Mutation, Missense#Myasthenic Syndromes, Congenital#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Pedigree#Presynaptic Terminals#Protein Transport#Symporters'
b"Objectives: To describe the disease characteristics, continuous course and long-term outcome and to evaluate predictors of outcome in JIA in Greece.Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort analysis of 17 years' prospective data on JIA. Outcome assessment included radiographic (modified Sharp-van der Heidje score), articular and extra-articular damage (Juvenile Arthritis Damage Index), functional ability (HAQ Disability Index), and the cumulative percentage time spent in a state of active disease and also in clinical remission off medication (CR) (according to Wallace's criteria).Results: One hundred and two (72 females) patients under regular follow-up were enrolled. The disease age of onset [mean (SD)] was 7.7 (4) years, the interval from onset to last visit was 17.2 (6.7) years and the patients' current age was 25 (5.9) years. At the last follow-up visit, 53 patients (52%) had disease activity, while 23.5% were in CR. The cumulative percentage time spent in a state of active disease and CR over the disease course was 52.6 and 17.8%, respectively. Polyarticular subtype of onset and longer disease activity during the first 5 years were independent predictors of worse outcome. Additional telephone-based interviews of 205 former JIA patients who had been lost to follow-up as adults were performed to extend the interpretation of our findings to a broader JIA population. Almost half (47.6%) of the total cohort of 307 patients were found to be in CR at the final evaluation and 69.7% had no disability.Conclusion: The available data indicate that JIA as a whole is a heterogeneous disease with significant variability in course and long-term outcome. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Adolescent#Adult#Antibodies, Antinuclear#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Juvenile#Blood Sedimentation#C-Reactive Protein#Cohort Studies#Disease Progression#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Greece#Humans#Male#Peptides, Cyclic#Prognosis#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors#Uveitis#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: Clinicians treating older patients with bipolar disorder with mood stabilizers need evidence from age-specific randomized controlled trials. The authors describe findings from a first such study of late-life mania.METHOD: The authors compared the tolerability and efficacy of lithium carbonate and divalproex in 224 inpatients and outpatients age 60 or older with bipolar I disorder who presented with a manic, hypomanic, or mixed episode. Participants were randomly assigned, under double-blind conditions, to treatment with lithium (target serum concentration, 0.80-0.99 mEq/L) or divalproex (target serum valproate concentration, 80-99 \xce\xbcg/mL) for 9 weeks. Participants with an inadequate response after 3 weeks received open adjunctive risperidone. The authors hypothesized that divalproex would be better tolerated and more efficacious than lithium. Tolerability was assessed based on a measure of sedation and on the proportions of participants achieving target concentrations. Efficacy was assessed with the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS).RESULTS: Attrition rates were similar for lithium and divalproex (14% and 18% at week 3 and 51% and 44% at week 9, respectively). The groups did not differ significantly in sedation. Participants in the lithium group tended to experience more tremor. Similar proportions of participants in the lithium and divalproex groups achieved target concentrations (57% and 56%, respectively). A longitudinal mixed model of improvement (change from baseline in YMRS score) favored lithium (change in score, 3.90; 97.5% CI=1.71, 6.09). Nine-week response rates did not differ significantly between the lithium and divalproex groups (79% and 73%, respectively). The need for adjunctive risperidone was low and similar between groups (17% and 14%, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Both lithium and divalproex were adequately tolerated and efficacious; lithium was associated with a greater reduction in mania scores over 9 weeks. labels: #Aged#Antimanic Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Bipolar Disorder#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Lithium Carbonate#Male#Middle Aged#Risperidone#Treatment Outcome#Valproic Acid'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine if circulating concentrations of vitamin D are causally associated with risk of cancer.Design\xc2\xa0Mendelian randomisation study.Setting\xc2\xa0Large genetic epidemiology networks (the Genetic Associations and Mechanisms in Oncology (GAME-ON), the Genetic and Epidemiology of Colorectal Cancer Consortium (GECCO), and the Prostate Cancer Association Group to Investigate Cancer Associated Alterations in the Genome (PRACTICAL) consortiums, and the MR-Base platform).Participants\xc2\xa070\xe2\x80\x89563 cases of cancer (22\xe2\x80\x89898 prostate cancer, 15\xe2\x80\x89748 breast cancer, 12\xe2\x80\x89537 lung cancer, 11\xe2\x80\x89488 colorectal cancer, 4369 ovarian cancer, 1896 pancreatic cancer, and 1627 neuroblastoma) and 84\xe2\x80\x89418 controls.Exposures\xc2\xa0Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (rs2282679, rs10741657, rs12785878 and rs6013897) associated with vitamin D were used to define a multi-polymorphism score for circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations.Main outcomes measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcomes were the risk of incident colorectal, breast, prostate, ovarian, lung, and pancreatic cancer and neuroblastoma, which was evaluated with an inverse variance weighted average of the associations with specific polymorphisms and a likelihood based approach. Secondary outcomes based on cancer subtypes by sex, anatomic location, stage, and histology were also examined.Results\xc2\xa0There was little evidence that the multi-polymorphism score of 25(OH)D was associated with risk of any of the seven cancers or their subtypes. Specifically, the odds ratios per 25 nmol/L increase in genetically determined 25(OH)D concentrations were 0.92 (95% confidence interval 0.76 to 1.10) for colorectal cancer, 1.05 (0.89 to 1.24) for breast cancer, 0.89 (0.77 to 1.02) for prostate cancer, and 1.03 (0.87 to 1.23) for lung cancer. The results were consistent with the two different analytical approaches, and the study was powered to detect relative effect sizes of moderate magnitude (for example, 1.20-1.50 per 25 nmol/L decrease in 25(OH)D for most primary cancer outcomes. The Mendelian randomisation assumptions did not seem to be violated.Conclusions\xc2\xa0There is little evidence for a linear causal association between circulating vitamin D concentration and risk of various types of cancer, though the existence of causal clinically relevant effects of low magnitude cannot be ruled out. These results, in combination with previous literature, provide evidence that population-wide screening for vitamin D deficiency and subsequent widespread vitamin D supplementation should not currently be recommended as a strategy for primary cancer prevention. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Case-Control Studies#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Incidence#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Mendelian Randomization Analysis#Neoplasms#Neuroblastoma#Ovarian Neoplasms#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk Assessment#Vitamin D#Vitamin D Deficiency'
b"OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness and population impact of the national implementation of the Study of Technology to Accelerate Research (STAR) intervention for childhood obesity.METHODS: In the STAR cluster-randomized trial, 6- to 12-year-old children with obesity seen at pediatric practices with electronic health record (EHR)-based decision support for primary care providers and self-guided behavior-change support for parents had significantly smaller increases in BMI than children who received usual care. We used a microsimulation model of a national implementation of STAR from 2015 to 2025 among all pediatric primary care providers in the United States with fully functional EHRs to estimate cost, impact on obesity prevalence, and cost-effectiveness.RESULTS: The expected population reach of a 10-year national implementation is \xe2\x88\xbc2 million children, with intervention costs of $119 per child and $237 per BMI unit reduced. At 10 years, assuming maintenance of effect, the intervention is expected to avert 43\xe2\x80\x89000 cases and 226\xe2\x80\x89000 life-years with obesity at a net cost of $4085 per case and $774 per life-year with obesity averted. Limiting implementation to large practices and using higher estimates of EHR adoption improved both cost-effectiveness and reach, whereas decreasing the maintenance of the intervention's effect worsened the former.CONCLUSIONS: A childhood obesity intervention with electronic decision support for clinicians and self-guided behavior-change support for parents may be more cost-effective than previous clinical interventions. Effective and efficient interventions that target children with obesity are necessary and could work in synergy with population-level prevention strategies to accelerate progress in reducing obesity prevalence. labels: #Body Mass Index#Child#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Decision Making, Computer-Assisted#Early Medical Intervention#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Male#Pediatric Obesity#United States"
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Growth is an important criterion to evaluate health in childhood and adolescence, especially in patients depending on special dietary treatment. Phenylketonuria (PKU) is the most common inherited disease of amino acid metabolism. Patients with PKU depend on a special phenylalanine-restricted diet, low in natural protein. The study aimed to evaluate growth, growth rate, and target height in 224 patients with PKU.METHODS: Retrospective, longitudinal analysis of standardized, yearly measurements of height, weight, and calculated growth rate (SD score [SDS]) of patients with PKU aged 0 to 18 years were conducted by using the national computerized CrescNet database. Inclusion was restricted to patients carried to term with a confirmed diagnosis of PKU or mild hyperphenylalaninemia determined by newborn screening and early treatment initiation.RESULTS: From birth to adulthood, patients with PKU were significantly shorter than healthy German children (height SDS at 18 years: -0.882 \xc2\xb1 0.108,P<.001). They missed their target height by 3 cm by adulthood (women:P= .02) and 5 cm (men:P= .01). In patients receiving casein hydrolysate during childhood, this was more pronounced compared with patients receiving amino acid mixtures (P<.001). Growth rate was significantly reduced during their first 2 years of life and in puberty (growth rate SDS: -1.1 to -0.5 m/year,P<.001 and -0.5;P<.02).CONCLUSIONS: Early diagnosed, treated, and continuously monitored patients with PKU showed reduced height from birth onward. During the last 2 decades, this phenomenon attenuated, probably because of advances in PKU therapy related to protein supplements and special low-protein foods. labels: #Adolescent#Body Height#Body Weight#Child#Child Development#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Dietary Proteins#Female#Germany#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Phenylketonurias#Retrospective Studies'
b'PARP inhibitors (PARPi) kill BRCA1/2-mutated cancers, which become resistant when DNA repair functions are restored. Now, MUS81 nuclease inhibition due to EZH2 downregulation is found to restore DNA replication fork protection but not repair, leading to PARPi-resistance in mutant BRCA2 cells and patients. This challenges the DNA repair dominance in synthetic lethality. labels: #BRCA1 Protein#BRCA2 Protein#DNA Damage#DNA Repair#DNA Replication#Down-Regulation#Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein#Humans#Neoplasms#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases'
b'Organoids are a powerful tool to study both physiological and disease processes. A completely synthetic matrix assembled from exchangeable modular parts has been developed and not only supports proliferation of human intestinal organoids derived from pluripotent embryonic stem cells, but also augments subsequent ad vivo implantation into injured murine colon. labels: #Animals#Cell Differentiation#Embryonic Stem Cells#Humans#Intestines#Organoids#Pluripotent Stem Cells#Prostheses and Implants#Regeneration'
b'A variety of non-coding RNAs have been reported as endogenous sponges for cancer-modulating miRNAs. However, miRNA trapping by transcripts with protein-coding functions is less understood. The mRNA of TYRP1 is now found to sequester the tumour suppressor miR-16 on non-canonical miRNA response elements in melanoma, thereby promoting malignant growth. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Melanoma#Membrane Glycoproteins#MicroRNAs#Oxidoreductases#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b"With the aim to create a library of compounds with potential bioactivities by combining special characteristics of two important groups such as nucleobases and carbohydrates, twenty 1,4-disubstituted-triazole nucleosides were synthesized in good yields (80-94%) using the copper catalyzed 'Click' reaction between azido-modified pento- or hexopyranoses and alkyne-bearing pyrimidine or purine nucleobases. Structural elucidation was made with the assistance of spectroscopic techniques such as FTIR, 1D-, 2D-NMR, and ESI-TOFMS. All the synthesized triazole nucleosides were evaluated for their cytotoxic activity against three human cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231, Hep3B, PC-3) by using the MTT assay. Particularly, compounds 3a and 1b were identified as potential hits against Hep3B cell. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Humans#Purine Nucleosides#Pyrans#Pyrimidine Nucleosides#Triazoles"
b'Vocal learning, the substrate of human language acquisition, has rarely been described in other mammals. Often, group-specific vocal dialects in wild populations provide the main evidence for vocal learning. While social learning is often the most plausible explanation for these intergroup differences, it is usually impossible to exclude other driving factors, such as genetic or ecological backgrounds. Here, we show the formation of dialects through social vocal learning in fruit bats under controlled conditions. We raised 3 groups of pups in conditions mimicking their natural roosts. Namely, pups could hear their mothers\' vocalizations but were also exposed to a manipulation playback. The vocalizations in the 3 playbacks mainly differed in their fundamental frequency. From the age of approximately 6 months and onwards, the pups demonstrated distinct dialects, where each group was biased towards its playback. We demonstrate the emergence of dialects through social learning in a mammalian model in a tightly controlled environment. Unlike in the extensively studied case of songbirds where specific tutors are imitated, we demonstrate that bats do not only learn their vocalizations directly from their mothers, but that they are actually influenced by the sounds of the entire crowd. This process, which we term "crowd vocal learning," might be relevant to many other social animals such as cetaceans and pinnipeds. labels: #Acoustics#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Auditory Perception#Chiroptera#Female#Learning#Vocalization, Animal'
b'BACKGROUND: Gonorrhoea is one of the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infections in England. Over 41,000 cases were recorded in 2015, more than half of which occurred in men who have sex with men (MSM). As the bacterium has developed resistance to each first-line antibiotic in turn, we need an improved understanding of fitness benefits and costs of antibiotic resistance to inform control policy and planning. Cefixime was recommended as a single-dose treatment for gonorrhoea from 2005 to 2010, during which time resistance increased, and subsequently declined.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed a stochastic compartmental model representing the natural history and transmission of cefixime-sensitive and cefixime-resistant strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae in MSM in England, which was applied to data on diagnoses and prescriptions between 2008 and 2015. We estimated that asymptomatic carriers play a crucial role in overall transmission dynamics, with 37% (95% credible interval CrI 24%-52%) of infections remaining asymptomatic and untreated, accounting for 89% (95% CrI 82%-93%) of onward transmission. The fitness cost of cefixime resistance in the absence of cefixime usage was estimated to be such that the number of secondary infections caused by resistant strains is only about half as much as for the susceptible strains, which is insufficient to maintain persistence. However, we estimated that treatment of cefixime-resistant strains with cefixime was unsuccessful in 83% (95% CrI 53%-99%) of cases, representing a fitness benefit of resistance. This benefit was large enough to counterbalance the fitness cost when 31% (95% CrI 26%-36%) of cases were treated with cefixime, and when more than 55% (95% CrI 44%-66%) of cases were treated with cefixime, the resistant strain had a net fitness advantage over the susceptible strain. Limitations include sparse data leading to large intervals on key model parameters and necessary assumptions in the modelling of a complex epidemiological process.CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides, to our knowledge, the first estimates of the fitness cost and benefit associated with resistance of the gonococcus to a clinically relevant antibiotic. Our findings have important implications for antibiotic stewardship and public health policies and, in particular, suggest that a previously abandoned antibiotic could be used again to treat a minority of gonorrhoea cases without raising resistance levels. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Asymptomatic Infections#Bisexuality#Cefixime#Cephalosporin Resistance#Cost-Benefit Analysis#England#Gonorrhea#Health Policy#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Models, Biological#Neisseria gonorrhoeae'
b"BACKGROUND: Disinvestment (removal, reduction, or reallocation) of routinely provided health services can be difficult when there is little published evidence examining whether the services are effective or not. Evidence is required to understand if removing these services produces outcomes that are inferior to keeping such services in place. However, organisational imperatives, such as budget cuts, may force healthcare providers to disinvest from these services before the required evidence becomes available. There are presently no experimental studies examining the effectiveness of allied health services (e.g., physical therapy, occupational therapy, and social work) provided on weekends across acute medical and surgical hospital wards, despite these services being routinely provided internationally. The aim of this study was to understand the impact of removing weekend allied health services from acute medical and surgical wards using a disinvestment-specific non-inferiority research design.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted 2 stepped-wedge cluster randomised controlled trials between 1 February 2014 and 30 April 2015 among patients on 12 acute medical or surgical hospital wards spread across 2 hospitals. The hospitals involved were 2 metropolitan teaching hospitals in Melbourne, Australia. Data from n = 14,834 patients were collected for inclusion in Trial 1, and n = 12,674 in Trial 2. Trial 1 was a disinvestment-specific non-inferiority stepped-wedge trial where the 'current' weekend allied health service was incrementally removed from participating wards each calendar month, in a random order, while Trial 2 used a conventional non-inferiority stepped-wedge design, where a 'newly developed' service was incrementally reinstated on the same wards as in Trial 1. Primary outcome measures were patient length of stay (proportion staying longer than expected and mean length of stay), the proportion of patients experiencing any adverse event, and the proportion with an unplanned readmission within 28 days of discharge. The 'no weekend allied health service' condition was considered to be not inferior if the 95% CIs of the differences between this condition and the condition with weekend allied health service delivery were below a 2% increase in the proportion of patients who stayed in hospital longer than expected, a 2% increase in the proportion who had an unplanned readmission within 28 days, a 2% increase in the proportion who had any adverse event, and a 1-day increase in the mean length of stay. The current weekend allied health service included physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, dietetics, social work, and allied health assistant services in line with usual care at the participating sites. The newly developed weekend allied health service allowed managers at each site to reprioritise tasks being performed and the balance of hours provided by each professional group and on which days they were provided. Analyses conducted on an intention-to-treat basis demonstrated that there was no estimated effect size difference between groups in the proportion of patients staying longer than expected (weekend versus no weekend; estimated effect size difference [95% CI], p-value) in Trial 1 (0.40 versus 0.38; estimated effect size difference 0.01 [-0.01 to 0.04], p = 0.31, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin), but the proportion staying longer than expected was greater with the newly developed service compared to its no weekend service control condition (0.39 versus 0.40; estimated effect size difference 0.02 [0.01 to 0.04], p = 0.04, CI was completely below non-inferiority margin) in Trial 2. Trial 1 and 2 findings were discordant for the mean length of stay outcome (Trial 1: 5.5 versus 6.3 days; estimated effect size difference 1.3 days [0.9 to 1.8], p<0.001, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin; Trial 2: 5.9 versus 5.0 days; estimated effect size difference -1.6 days [-2.0 to -1.1], p<0.001, CI was completely below non-inferiority margin). There was no difference between conditions for the proportion who had an unplanned readmission within 28 days in either trial (Trial 1: 0.01 [-0.01 to 0.03], p = 0.18, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin; Trial 2: -0.01 [-0.02 to 0.01], p = 0.62, CI completely below non-inferiority margin). There was no difference between conditions in the proportion of patients who experienced any adverse event in Trial 1 (0.01 [-0.01 to 0.03], p = 0.33, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin), but a lower proportion of patients had an adverse event in Trial 2 when exposed to the no weekend allied health condition (-0.03 [-0.05 to -0.004], p = 0.02, CI completely below non-inferiority margin). Limitations of this research were that 1 of the trial wards was closed by the healthcare provider after Trial 1 and could not be included in Trial 2, and that both withdrawing the current weekend allied health service model and installing a new one may have led to an accommodation period for staff to adapt to the new service settings. Stepped-wedge trials are potentially susceptible to bias from naturally occurring change over time at the service level; however, this was adjusted for in our analyses.CONCLUSIONS: In Trial 1, criteria to say that the no weekend allied health condition was non-inferior to current weekend allied health condition were not met, while neither the no weekend nor current weekend allied health condition demonstrated superiority. In Trial 2, the no weekend allied health condition was non-inferior to the newly developed weekend allied health condition across all primary outcomes, and superior for the outcomes proportion of patients staying longer than expected, proportion experiencing any adverse event, and mean length of stay.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12613001231730 and ACTRN12613001361796. labels: #After-Hours Care#Allied Health Personnel#Australia#Dietetics#Health Services#Hospital Units#Hospitalization#Humans#Length of Stay#Linear Models#Multilevel Analysis#Occupational Therapy#Patient Readmission#Physical Therapy Specialty#Social Work"
b"Stone cell content is thought to be one of the key determinants for fruit quality in pears. However, the molecular mechanism of stone cell development remains poorly understood. In this study, we found that the stone cell clusters (SCCs) distribution and area in 'Dangshan Su' (with abundant stone cells) were higher as compared to 'Lianglizaosu' (low stone cell content bud sport of 'Dangshan Su') based on the histochemical staining, and the correlations of lignin content with stone cell content and SCC area was significant. The fruits of 'Dangshan Su' and 'Lianglizaosu' at three different developmental stages (23 and 55 days after flowering and mature) were sampled for comparative transcriptome analysis to explore the metabolic pathways associated with stone cell development. A total of 42444 unigenes were obtained from two varieties, among which 7203 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparison of the six transcriptomes. Specifically, many DEGs associated with lignin biosynthesis were identified, including coumaroylquinate 3-monooxygenase (C3H), shikimate O-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (HCT), ferulate 5-hydroxylase (F5H), cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) and peroxidase (POD), as well as genes related to carbon metabolism, such as sorbitol dehydrogenase-like (SDH-like) and ATP-dependent 6-phosphofructokinase (ATP-PFK). At the peak of the stone cell content (55 days after flowering), the expression level of these genes in 'Dangshan Su' was significantly increased compared with 'Lianglizaosu', indicating that these genes were closely related to stone cell development. We validated the transcriptional levels of 33 DEGs using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis. The results were consistent with the transcriptome analysis, indicating the reliability of transcriptome data. In addition, subcellular localization analysis of three DEGs in lignin synthesis (PbC3H, PbF5H and PbPOD) revealed that these proteins are mainly distributed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm. These results provide new insights into the molecular mechanism of stone cell formation. labels: #Fruit#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genetic Association Studies#Lignin#Metabolic Networks and Pathways#Pyrus#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA"
b'The nuclear genome harbours hundreds to several thousand copies of ribosomal DNA. Despite their essential role in cellular ribogenesis few studies have addressed intrapopulation, interpopulation and interspecific levels of rDNA variability in wild plants. Some studies have assessed the extent of rDNA variation at the sequence and copy-number level with large sampling in several species. However, comparable studies on rDNA site number variation in plants, assessed with extensive hierarchical sampling at several levels (individuals, populations, species) are lacking. In exploring the possible causes for ribosomal loci dynamism, we have used the diploid genus Anacyclus (Asteraceae) as a suitable system to examine the evolution of ribosomal loci. To this end, the number and chromosomal position of 45S rDNA sites have been determined in 196 individuals from 47 populations in all Anacyclus species using FISH. The 45S rDNA site-number has been assessed in a significant sample of seed plants, which usually exhibit rather consistent features, except for polyploid plants. In contrast, the level of rDNA site-number variation detected in Anacyclus is outstanding in the context of angiosperms particularly regarding populations of the same species. The number of 45S rDNA sites ranged from four to 11, accounting for 14 karyological ribosomal phenotypes. Our results are not even across species and geographical areas, and show that there is no clear association between the number of 45S rDNA loci and the life cycle in Anacyclus. A single rDNA phenotype was detected in several species, but a more complex pattern that included intra-specific and intra-population polymorphisms was recorded in A. homogamos, A. clavatus and A. valentinus, three weedy species showing large and overlapping distribution ranges. It is likely that part of the cytogenetic changes and inferred dynamism found in these species have been triggered by genomic rearrangements resulting from contemporary hybridisation. labels: #Asteraceae#Chromosomes, Plant#DNA, Ribosomal#Diploidy#Genetic Variation#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Karyotyping#RNA, Ribosomal'
b'Purpose: Centripetal retinal degeneration in choroideremia (CHM) leads to early visual field restriction and late central vision loss. The latter marks an acute decline in quality of life but visual prognostication remains challenging. We investigated visual function in CHM by correlating best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), microperimetry and multimodal imaging.Methods: Fifty-six consecutive CHM patients attending Oxford Eye Hospital were examined with BCVA, 10-2 microperimetry, optical coherence tomography, and fundus autofluorescence (AF). Microperimetry was repeated in 21 eyes and analyzed with Bland-Altman. Kaplan-Meier survival plots of eyes retaining 20/20 BCVA were created. Intereye symmetry was assessed.Results: Microperimetry coefficient of repeatability was 1.45 dB. Survival analysis showed an indistinguishable pattern between eyes (median survival 39 years). Macular sensitivity showed a similar decline in right and left eyes, with half-lives of 13.6 years. Zonal analysis showed faster decline nasal to the fovea. Intereye symmetry was more consistent for microperimetry sensitivity (r = 0.95, P<0.001) than BCVA (r = 0.42, P = 0.0006). Near normal foveal sensitivity was maintained when the fovea was at least 2500 \xce\xbcm from the advancing edge of AF.Conclusions: BCVA is a marker of central degeneration and can provide valuable information about the position of the remaining retina as well as a measure of the impact on daily living. Microperimetry represents the global macular region. Both visual functions showed a high degree of intereye symmetry, particularly in early stages, indicating the fellow eye can provide a suitable control for assessing interventions to one eye. The findings may help to tailor visual prognosis and interpret outcomes of trials. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Choroideremia#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Fundus Oculi#Genetic Therapy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multimodal Imaging#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Visual Field Tests#Visual Fields#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To investigate the anti-inflammatory properties of ripasudil, a Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, using endotoxin-induced uveitis (EIU) in rats.Methods: Endotoxin-induced uveitis was induced by footpad injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Ripasudil was administered intraperitoneally 1 hour before and after LPS injection. The aqueous humor was collected 24 hours after injection, and the infiltrating cells, protein concentration, and levels of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were determined. Infiltrating cells in the iris ciliary body (ICB) and adherent leukocytes in retinal vessels were evaluated. The mRNA levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1, and MCP-1 in the retina and ICB were determined. A mouse macrophage cell line, RAW264.7, was stimulated with LPS in the presence or absence of ripasudil, and the expression of MCP-1 and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-\xce\xbaB was analyzed.Results: Ripasudil significantly reduced infiltrating cells and protein exudation in the aqueous humor, as well as the number of infiltrating cells in the ICB and adherent leukocytes in retinal vessels in EIU. Additionally, the protein level of MCP-1 in the aqueous humor and mRNA levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1, MCP-1, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the ICB and retina were suppressed by ripasudil. The production of MCP-1 and nuclear translocation of NF-\xce\xbaB in RAW264.7 cells were also suppressed by ripasudil.Conclusions: The Rho/ROCK pathway plays a role in adhesion molecule expression and inflammatory cell infiltration in EIU, and ripasudil is a potent anti-inflammatory agent against ocular inflammatory diseases, including acute uveitis and possibly uveitic glaucoma. labels: #Animals#Aqueous Humor#Cells, Cultured#Cytokines#Disease Models, Animal#Endotoxins#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Isoquinolines#Male#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Retina#Sulfonamides#Uveitis#rho-Associated Kinases'
b'Purpose: To assess vitreous levels of inflammatory cytokines and neurotrophins (NTs) in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and elucidate their potential roles.Methods: A prospective study was performed on 50 vitreous samples obtained from patients with DR (n = 22) and the nondiabetic controls (n = 28). All patients were candidates for vitrectomy. Inflammatory cytokine and NT levels were determined with ELISA. Potential source and role of NTs was determined by using human retinal M\xc3\xbcller glia and mouse photoreceptor cells and challenging them with TNF-\xce\xb1 or IL-1\xce\xb2, followed by detection of NTs and cell death.Results: Vitreous NT levels of all DR patients were significantly higher than those of nondiabetic controls (nerve growth factor [NGF, P = 0.0001], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF, P = 0.009], neurotrophin-3 [NT-3, P<0.0001], neurotrophin-4 [NT-4, P = 0.0001], ciliary neurotrophic factor [CNTF, P = 0.0001], and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor [GDNF, P = 0.008]). Similarly, the levels of inflammatory mediators IL-1\xce\xb2 (P<0.0001), IL-6 (P = 0.0005), IL-8 (P<0.0001), and TNF-\xce\xb1 (P<0.0001) were also higher in eyes with DR. Interestingly, inflammatory cytokine and NT levels, particularly TNF-\xce\xb1 (P<0.05), IL-8 (P<0.004), NT-3 (P = 0.012), NGF (P = 0.04), GDNF (P = 0.005), and CNTF (P = 0.002), were higher in eyes with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) than in eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Cytokine stimulation of M\xc3\xbcller glia resulted in production of NTs, and GDNF treatment reduced photoreceptor cell death in response to inflammation and oxidative stress.Conclusions: Together, our study demonstrated that patients with DR have higher levels of both inflammatory cytokines and NTs in their vitreous. M\xc3\xbcller glia could be the potential source of NTs under inflammatory conditions to exert neuroprotection. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers#Cells, Cultured#Cytokines#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Growth Factors#Prospective Studies#Vitreous Body'
b'BACKGROUND: The objective of our investigation is to study the relationship between the rs4939827 SNP in the SMAD7 gene, Mediterranean diet pattern and the risk of colorectal cancer.METHODS: We examined 1087 cases of colorectal cancer and 2409 population controls with available DNA samples from the MCC-Spain study, 2008-2012. Descriptive statistical analyses, and multivariate logistic mixed models were performed. The potential synergistic effect of rs4939827 and the Mediterranean diet pattern was evaluated with logistic regression in different strata of of adherence to the Mediterranean diet and the genotype.RESULTS: High adherence to Mediterrenean diet was statistically significantly associated with colorectal cancer risk. A decreased risk for CRC cancer was observed for the CC compared to the TT genotype (OR\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.65 and 95% CI\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.51-0.81) of the rs4939827 SNP Also, we could show an association between the Mediterranean diet pattern (protective factor) and rs4939827. Although the decreased risk for the CC genotype was slightly more pronounced in subjects with high adherence to Mediterrenean diet, there was no statistically significant synergistic effect between genotype CC and adherence to the Mediterranean dietary pattern factors.CONCLUSION: The SMAD7 gene and specifically the allele C could be protective for colorectal cancer. An independent protective association was also observed between high adherence Mediterranean diet pattern and CRC risk. Findings form this study indicate that high adherence to Mediterranean diet pattern has a protective role for CRC cancer probably involving the Tumor Growth Factor- \xce\xb2 pathway in this cancer. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinogenesis#Case-Control Studies#Colorectal Neoplasms#Diet, Mediterranean#Female#Gene-Environment Interaction#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Smad7 Protein#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The influence of e-cigarette use on smoking initiation is a highly controversial issue, with limited longitudinal data available for examining temporal associations. We examined e-cigarette use and its association with cigarette-smoking initiation at 1-year follow-up within a large cohort of Canadian secondary school students.METHODS: We analyzed data from students in grades 9-12 who participated in 2 waves of COMPASS, a cohort study of purposefully sampled secondary schools in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, at baseline (2013/14) and 1-year follow-up (2014/15). We assessed cigarette smoking and e-cigarette use at baseline and follow-up using self-completed surveys. We used generalized linear mixed-effects models to examine correlates of past 30-day e-cigarette use at baseline and smoking initiation between waves within the longitudinal sample.RESULTS: Past 30-day e-cigarette use increased from 2013/14 to 2014/15 (7.2% v. 9.7%,p<0.001), whereas past 30-day cigarette smoking decreased slightly (11.4% v. 10.8%,p= 0.02). Among the 44 163 students evaluated at baseline, past 30-day e-cigarette use was strongly associated with smoking status and smoking susceptibility. In the longitudinal sample (n= 19 130), past 30-day use of e-cigarettes at baseline was associated with initiation of smoking a whole cigarette (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 2.12, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.68-2.66) and with initiation of daily smoking (adjusted OR 1.79, 95% CI 1.41-2.28) at follow-up.INTERPRETATION: E-cigarette use was strongly associated with cigarette smoking behaviour, including smoking initiation at follow-up. The causal nature of this association remains unclear, because common factors underlying the use of both e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes may also account for the temporal order of initiation. labels: #Adolescent#Adolescent Behavior#Alberta#Behavior, Addictive#Cohort Studies#Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems#Female#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Ontario#Peer Group#Risk Factors#Self Report#Smoking#Tobacco Use Disorder'
b'BACKGROUND: Although previous studies have demonstrated that patients receiving bilateral internal mammary artery (BIMA) conduits during coronary artery bypass grafting have better long-term survival than those receiving a single internal mammary artery (SIMA), data on risk of repeat revascularization are more limited. In this analysis, we compare the timing, frequency, and type of repeat coronary revascularization among patients receiving BIMA and SIMA.METHODS: We conducted a multicenter, retrospective analysis of 47 984 consecutive coronary artery bypass grafting surgeries performed from 1992 to 2014 among 7 medical centers reporting to a prospectively maintained clinical registry. Among the study population, 1482 coronary artery bypass grafting surgeries with BIMA were identified, and 1297 patients receiving BIMA were propensity-matched to 1297 patients receiving SIMA. The primary end point was freedom from repeat coronary revascularization.RESULTS: The median duration of follow-up was 13.2 (IQR, 7.4-17.7) years. Patients were well matched by age, body mass index, major comorbidities, and cardiac function. There was a higher freedom from repeat revascularization among patients receiving BIMA than among patients receiving SIMA (hazard ratio [HR], 0.78 [95% CI, 0.65-0.94];P=0.009). Among the matched cohort, 19.4% (n=252) of patients receiving SIMA underwent repeat revascularization, whereas this frequency was 15.1% (n=196) among patients receiving BIMA (P=0.004). The majority of repeat revascularization procedures were percutaneous coronary interventions (94.2%), and this did not differ between groups (P=0.274). Groups also did not differ in the ratio of native versus graft vessel percutaneous coronary intervention (P=0.899), or regarding percutaneous coronary intervention target vessels; the most common targets in both groups were the right coronary (P=0.133) and circumflex arteries (P=0.093). In comparison with SIMA, BIMA grafting was associated with a reduction in all-cause mortality at 12 years of follow-up (HR, 0.79 [95% CI, 0.69-0.91];P=0.001), and there was no difference in in-hospital morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: BIMA grafting was associated with a reduced risk of repeat revascularization and an improvement in long-term survival and should be considered more frequently during coronary artery bypass grafting. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Coronary Artery Bypass#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mammary Arteries#Middle Aged#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate'
b'BACKGROUND: Pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot provides symptomatic benefit and right ventricular (RV) volume reduction. However, data on the rate of ventricular structural and functional adaptation are scarce. We aimed to assess immediate and midterm post-PVR changes and predictors of reverse remoeling.METHODS: Fifty-seven patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot (age \xe2\x89\xa516 y; mean age, 35.8\xc2\xb110.1 y; 38 male) undergoing PVR were prospectively recruited for cardiovascular magnetic resonance performed before PVR (pPVR), immediately after PVR (median, 6 d), and midterm after PVR (mPVR; median, 3 y).RESULTS: There were immediate and midterm reductions in indexed RV end-diastolic volumes and RV end-systolic volumes (RVESVi) (indexed RV end-diastolic volume pPVR versus immediately after PVR versus mPVR, 156.1\xc2\xb141.9 versus 104.9\xc2\xb128.4 versus 104.2\xc2\xb134.4 mL/m2; RVESVi pPVR versus immediately after PVR versus mPVR, 74.9\xc2\xb126.2 versus 57.4\xc2\xb122.7 versus 50.5\xc2\xb121.7 mL/m2;P<0.01). Normal postoperative diastolic and systolic RV volumes (the primary end point) achieved in 70% of patients were predicted by a preoperative indexed RV end-diastolic volume \xe2\x89\xa4158 mL/m2and RVESVi \xe2\x89\xa482 mL/m2. RVESVi showed a progressive decrease from baseline to immediate to midterm follow-up, indicating ongoing intrinsic RV functional improvement after PVR. Left ventricular ejection fraction improved (pPVR versus mPVR, 59.4\xc2\xb17.6% versus 61.9\xc2\xb16.8%;P<0.01), and right atrial reverse remodeling occurred (pPVR versus mPVR, 15.2\xc2\xb13.4 versus 13.8\xc2\xb13.6 cm2/m2;P<0.01). Larger preoperative RV outflow tract scar was associated with a smaller improvement in post-PVR RV/left ventricular ejection fraction. RV ejection fraction and peak oxygen uptake predicted mortality (P=0.03) over a median of 9.5 years of follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Significant right heart structural reverse remodeling takes place immediately after PVR, followed by a continuing process of further biological remodeling manifested by further reduction in RVESVi. PVR before RVESVi reaches 82 mL/m2confers optimal chances of normalization of RV function. labels: #Adult#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Valve Prosthesis#Heart Valve Prosthesis Implantation#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Pulmonary Valve#Stroke Volume#Tetralogy of Fallot#Ventricular Remodeling'
b'OBJECTIVES: To estimate the association between maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy and of paternal use before pregnancy with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in offspring while adjusting for familial risk for ADHD and indications of acetaminophen use.METHODS: Diagnoses were obtained from the Norwegian Patient Registry for 112\xe2\x80\x89973 offspring from the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study, including 2246 with ADHD. We estimated hazard ratios (HRs) for an ADHD diagnosis by using Cox proportional hazard models.RESULTS: After adjusting for maternal use of acetaminophen before pregnancy, familial risk for ADHD, and indications of acetaminophen use, we observed a modest association between any prenatal maternal use of acetaminophen in 1 (HR = 1.07; 95% confidence interval [CI]0.96-1.19), 2 (HR = 1.22; 95% CI 1.07-1.38), and 3 trimesters (HR = 1.27; 95% CI 0.99-1.63). The HR for more than 29 days of maternal acetaminophen use was 2.20 (95% CI 1.50-3.24). Use for<8 days was negatively associated with ADHD (HR = 0.90; 95% CI 0.81-1.00). Acetaminophen use for fever and infections for 22 to 28 days was associated with ADHD (HR = 6.15; 95% CI 1.71-22.05). Paternal and maternal use of acetaminophen were similarly associated with ADHD.CONCLUSIONS: Short-term maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was negatively associated with ADHD in offspring. Long-term maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was substantially associated with ADHD even after adjusting for indications of use, familial risk of ADHD, and other potential confounders. labels: #Acetaminophen#Adolescent#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Norway#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Prospective Studies#Registries#Risk Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite data suggesting safety and efficacy in ulcerative colitis patients treated with inpatient infliximab, prior studies did not focus on patients with extensive colitis, the group at highest risk for requiring surgery.METHODS: This was a single center, retrospective study (2008-2015) of consecutive patients who required admission because of severe extensive ulcerative colitis defined by preoperative symptoms and computed tomography scans and postoperative histology. Patients admitted for high-dose steroids were compared with steroid refractory inpatients provided with one or two infusions of infliximab. The primary study outcome was colectomy rates; secondary outcomes included mean length of stay and 60-d complication rates.RESULTS: A total of 174 patients required admission with steroids for extensive ulcerative colitis. Of these, 19 (10%) also received infliximab. Among the subjects treated with infliximab, 15 (78%) required total colectomy during that admission versus 81 (52%) who received steroids alone (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03). Postoperative readmission rates, surgical-site infections, return to the operating room, and all-complication rates were similar between the cohorts (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: For steroid refractory extensive ulcerative colitis, inpatient infliximab did not lower colectomy rates or increase postoperative complications compared with patients treated with steroids alone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Colectomy#Colitis, Ulcerative#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Gastrointestinal Agents#Hospitalization#Humans#Infliximab#Infusions, Intravenous#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Steroids#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The liver has unique anatomy in that most blood flow to normal hepatocytes is derived from the portal venous system, whereas liver tumors obtain their nutrient blood supply exclusively from the hepatic artery. The focused arterial delivery of anticancer agents to liver tumors has been performed for decades; however, preclinical models to standardize drug regimens and examine novel agents have been lacking. The purpose of this study was to establish preclinical hepatic artery infusion (HAI) models in a mouse and to evaluate the safety and delivery capability of the models.MATERIAL AND METHODS: C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice were used to develop models of HAI via the hepatic artery (HA), superior pancreaticoduodenal artery (SPDA), or lienogastric artery (LGA). Success rates, distribution of perfusion, and associated morbidity and mortality were analyzed between groups.RESULTS: All three models were feasible and reproducible in mice, and there was no statistical difference on body weight change between models. The HA model had a 13.3% mortality from acute liver failure, and the SPDA model demonstrated duodenal and pancreatic toxicity. SPDA and LGA routes had the highest success rates (96.7% and 91.4%, respectively) with low mortality, better drug delivery, and preserved physiologic liver function compared with the HA model.CONCLUSIONS: The optimal route of HAI was mouse breed specific; SPDA access in BALB/c mice, and the LGA access in C57BL/6 mice. The described techniques serve as a reproducible platform for the identification and characterization of therapeutics for diverse metastatic liver tumors. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Colonic Neoplasms#Female#Fluorouracil#Hepatic Artery#Infusions, Intra-Arterial#Liver Neoplasms#Liver Neoplasms, Experimental#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Reproducibility of Results#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Hispanic ethnicity is associated with increased incidence of gallbladder disease. Additionally, ethnicity has been shown to be an outcome determinant in several conditions and procedures but has never been studied as a potential determinant of morbidity or mortality after laparoscopic or open cholecystectomy.METHODS: Using the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database, patients who underwent cholecystectomy and related procedures were studied in Hispanic and non-Hispanic cohorts. Mortality and postoperative complication rates were calculated and adjusted for patient demographics and comorbidities through multivariate analysis.RESULTS: Hispanics had decreased morbidity following cholecystectomy as compared to non-Hispanics on univariate analysis in combined, laparoscopic, and open cohorts (RR 0.64, P value<0.001; 0.68,<0.001; 0.77,<0.001, respectively). The reduction was not found to be statistically significant in multivariate analysis. A similar reduction was seen for mortality (RR 0.30,<0.001; 0.39,<0.001; 0.28,<0.001, respectively) which remained on multivariate analysis in both combined and open cohorts (RR 0.63, 0.008 and 0.48, 0.021, respectively). Additionally, the rates of several postoperative complications were found to be reduced in Hispanic patients. Though our study demonstrates a lower rate of established comorbidities for poor outcomes in Hispanics, after adjustment in multivariate analysis, the entirety of the reduced risk could not be accounted for.CONCLUSIONS: While the Hispanic cohort has an increased incidence in gallbladder disease as compared to non-Hispanics, the complication, morbidity, and mortality rates are lower in unadjusted analysis. With adjustment, morbidity was not statistically significant and mortality was only significant in combined and open cohorts. This suggests that increased incidence rates do not equate with worse outcomes, but Hispanic ethnicity may be associated with better outcomes. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cholecystectomy#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Databases, Factual#Female#Health Status Disparities#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#United States#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Childhood sarcomas are rare and require complex interdisciplinary care including surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. The goal of this study was to determine if racial or ethnic disparities exist for pediatric sarcoma patients in the United States.METHODS: The United States' National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database was used to identify patients aged 0-21 diagnosed with primary sarcomas from 1973 to 2012. Patients were considered by race and ethnicity. Survival curves were computed using the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test.RESULTS: A total of 11,502 patients were included in this study. When stratified by race, non-Hispanic black and Hispanic patients were significantly more likely to present with advanced stage disease than white patients. White patients were more likely to receive radiation therapy than black and Hispanic patients (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.01). There was no significant difference between patients who underwent surgery (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.21). Overall survival was better for white patients than black or Hispanic ones. Despite the overall 5-year survival improvement during the study period (56.2%-70.3%), survival disparities between race and ethnicity have grown.CONCLUSIONS: Racial and ethnic disparities do exist with respect to stage, treatment, and survival of these rare tumors. Black and Hispanic patients are presenting at more advanced stage and have overall worse survival. This survival disparity has widened over the past 4\xc2\xa0decades. labels: #Adolescent#Bone Neoplasms#Child#Child, Preschool#Combined Modality Therapy#Ethnic Groups#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Health Status Disparities#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Retrospective Studies#SEER Program#Sarcoma#Soft Tissue Neoplasms#Survival Rate#United States#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: Given concern for hernia mesh infection, surgeons often use biologic mesh which may provide reduced risk of infection but at the cost of decreased repair durability. We evaluated mesh coating to provide sustained release of antibiotics to prevent prosthetic mesh infection and also allow a durable repair.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cyclodextrin-based polymer was crosslinked onto multifilament polyester mesh and loaded with vancomycin (1.75\xc2\xa0mg/cm2). Pigs received modified meshes (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa06) or normal, untreated meshes (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa04), which were implanted into acute 10\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa05 cm ventral hernia, then directly inoculated with 106\xc2\xa0colony-forming unit (CFU) of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). These were compared to animals receiving normal, uninfected mesh. All mesh was secured in an underlay bridge manner, and after 30\xc2\xa0d, the abdominal wall was removed for quantitative bacterial culture and biomechanical analysis.RESULTS: All animals survived 30\xc2\xa0d. All six animals with coated mesh cleared MRSA infection. The four control animals did not clear MRSA (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.005). Quantitative bacterial load was higher in standard mesh versus drug-delivery mesh group (2.34 \xc3\x97 104versus 80.9\xc2\xa0CFU/gm). These data were log10-transformed and analyzed by Welch's t-test (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). Minimum number of CFUs detectable by assay (300) was used instead of zero. Biomechanical analysis of controls (1.82\xc2\xa0N/mm infected; 1.71\xc2\xa0N/mm uninfected) showed no difference to the modified meshes (1.31\xc2\xa0N/mm) in tissue integration (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.15).CONCLUSIONS: We successfully prevented synthetic mesh infection in a pig model using a cyclodextrin-based polymer to locally deliver vancomycin to the hernia repair site and clearing antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Polymer coating did not impact the strength of the hernia repair. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Cellulose#Cyclodextrins#Female#Hernia, Ventral#Herniorrhaphy#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Polyesters#Prosthesis-Related Infections#Random Allocation#Staphylococcal Infections#Surgical Mesh#Swine#Treatment Outcome#Vancomycin"
b'BACKGROUND: Previous data indicate that patients who undergo surgery with a postgraduate year 3 (PGY-3) resident as the junior surgeon have a lower rate of recurrence compared with PGY-1 and PGY-2 after an open inguinal herniorrhaphy. Lower PGY level was also associated with increased operative time. We hypothesize that when controlling for surgeon, technique, and hernia type, the outcomes for inguinal herniorrhaphy are the same independent of PGY level.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of all open unilateral inguinal hernia repairs done by residents who assisted the same senior surgeon at the Veterans Affairs North Texas Health Care System was performed.RESULTS: Seven hundred fifty-two open unilateral inguinal hernia were identified: mean patient age\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa060.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa012.7\xc2\xa0y; mean body mass index\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa027.0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa010.8\xc2\xa0kg/m2; American Society of Anesthesia III-IV\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa051%; and Nyhus type 2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa044.7%, 3a\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa041.6%, and 3b\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa013.7%. Residents involved were PGY-1 (17.2%), PGY-2/3 (71.1%), and PGY-4/5 (11.7%). Postoperative complications for intern, junior (PGY-2 and PGY-3), and senior residents (PGY-4 and PGY-5) were 4%, 9%, and 6%, respectively (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.14). Compared to interns, junior residents finished the operation 3.9\xc2\xa0min faster (95% confidence interval = -7.5, -0.3). There was no time difference between interns and senior residents completing the operations after controlling for hernia type. Logistic regression did not identify PGY level as an independent predictor of complications or recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: There was a slight decrease in operative time when the repair was done with junior-level residents. PGY level did not influence outcomes for open, unilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy when controlled for hernia type and technique. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Competence#Female#Follow-Up Studies#General Surgery#Hernia, Inguinal#Herniorrhaphy#Humans#Internship and Residency#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Texas#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Secondary lymphedema commonly arises as a complication of cancer surgery\xc2\xa0and radiation treatment; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) forms a complex with calcitonin receptor-like receptor to generate the receptor for calcitonin gene-related peptide. The present study examined whether RAMP1 plays a role in increased lymphangiogenesis during secondary lymphedema.METHODS: A model of lymphedema was generated by surgical removal of pre-existing lymphatic vessels from the subcutaneous tissue on the tails of RAMP1-deficient (RAMP1-/-) mice and their wild-type (WT) counterparts. The maximum diameter of the tail, lymphangiogenesis, and macrophage recruitment were then examined.RESULTS: Compared with that in WT mice, lymphedema in the tails in RAMP1-/- mice was sustained, with suppressed lymphangiogenesis and reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 at the distal edge of the lesions. The newly formed lymphatic vessels in RAMP1-/- mice were dilated, with impaired lymphatic flow. RAMP1 was expressed by macrophages recruited into edematous tail tissues distal to the wound. The number of macrophages in RAMP1-/- mice was higher than that in WT mice. Expression of messenger RNA encoding M1 macrophage-related genes, including tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 and interleukin-1, was higher in RAMP1-/- mice than in WT mice, whereas expression of messenger RNA encoding M2 macrophage genes, including interleukin-10, was lower.CONCLUSIONS: RAMP1 signaling improves lymphedema and accelerates lymphangiogenesis associated with reduced recruitment of pro-inflammatory macrophages. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Lymphangiogenesis#Lymphedema#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Postoperative Complications#Receptor Activity-Modifying Protein 1#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Direct transport of patients with severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI) to trauma centers (TCs) that can provide definitive care results in lower mortality rates. This study investigated the impact of direct versus nondirect transfers on the mortality rates of patients with sTBI.METHODS: Data on patients with TBI admitted between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2013, to our Level I TC were obtained from the trauma registry. Data included patient age, sex, mechanism, and type of injury, comorbidities, Glasgow Coma Scale, Injury Severity scores, prehospital time, time to request and to transfer, time to initiation of multimodality monitoring and goal-directed therapy protocol, dwell time in the emergency department (EDT), and mortality. Data, reported in means\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa0standard deviation, were analyzed with the Student t-test and chi-square. Statistical significance was accepted at a P value\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05.RESULTS: sTBI direct transfer to TC versus transfer from non-TCs (NTC): Of the 1187 patients with TBI admitted to our TC, 768 (64.7%) were admitted directly from the scene, whereas 419 (35.3%) were admitted after secondary transfer. One hundred seventy-one (22.2%) of the direct transfers had Glasgow Coma Scale\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa08 (sTBI) and 92 (21.9%) of the secondary transfers had sTBI. The transfer time: Time from scene to arrival to the EDT was significantly shorter for TC versus NTCs 43\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa014 versus 77\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa026\xc2\xa0min, respectively (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). EDT dwell time before transfer and time from injury to arrival to TC were 4.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa02.1 and 6.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08.3\xc2\xa0h, respectively. Mortality: There was a statistically significant lower mortality for patients with sTBI transferred directly from the scene to TCs as opposed to patients secondarily transferred, 33/171 (19.3%) versus 33/92 (35.8%), respectively (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: To decrease TBI-related mortality, patients with suspected sTBI should be taken directly to a Level I or II TC unless they require life-saving stabilization at NTCs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Humans#Injury Severity Score#Male#Middle Aged#New York#Patient Transfer#Registries#Trauma Centers'
b'BACKGROUND: There is a high morbidity rate after digestive surgery in patients with nutritional disorders such as high body mass index and depletion of skeletal muscle.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The ratio of psoas muscle area to trunk area was defined as the Psoas and All trunk Ratio (PandA Ratio) and used as an index of the balance between muscle and adipose tissue. This ratio was determined in 77 patients undergoing laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy (LAG) for gastric cancer. Patients were classified into groups with and without postoperative complications. Clinicopathological factors were compared between the groups, and relationships of PandA Ratio with other nutritional indices were examined. PandA Ratios were also analyzed in males and females in each Clavien-Dindo grade.RESULTS: Complications developed in 22 patients (28.6%) after LAG. The PandA Ratio was significantly lower in patients with complications in univariate (2.76\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.22% versus 3.66\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.14%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0009) and multivariate (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0064) analyses. A low PandA Ratio was also associated with more severe complications in males.CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of the areas of the psoas muscle and trunk on CT is useful for evaluation of the balance between skeletal and adipose tissue. The PandA Ratio derived from these measurements is a predictor of the clinical course after LAG in males. labels: #Adiposity#Adult#Aged#Body Composition#Female#Gastrectomy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Nutritional Status#Postoperative Complications#Psoas Muscles#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Thorax#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, possesses potent anti-inflammation effects. We previously confirmed the effects of naloxone on inhibiting upregulation of inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1\xce\xb2 (IL-1\xce\xb2). Production of mature form IL-1\xce\xb2 is mediated by the nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, a multiprotein complex composed of NLRP3, and the adaptor protein apoptosis-associated speck-like protein contains a caspase recruitment domain (ASC). We elucidated whether naloxone could inhibit the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome.MATERIAL AND METHODS: To induce IL-1\xce\xb2 production and NLRP3 inflammasome activation, the human monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1\xc2\xa0cells were first primed with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/mL) and then activated with adenosine triphosphate (ATP, 1 mM). For NLRP3 transcription, THP-1\xc2\xa0cells were only treated with LPS priming.RESULTS: Enzyme-link immunosorbent assay data revealed that the concentration of IL-1\xce\xb2 in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP was significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP plus naloxone (0.1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Real-time quantitative reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction data also revealed that NLRP3 mRNA concentration in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS was significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus naloxone (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). ASC speck formation, that is, ASC assembles into a large protein complex, is an indicator for NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Our data revealed that the percentage of cells containing ASC specks in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP was also significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP plus naloxone (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001).CONCLUSIONS: Naloxone inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Biomarkers#Cell Line#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Escherichia coli#Humans#Inflammasomes#Interleukin-1beta#Lipopolysaccharides#NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein#Naloxone#Peptide Fragments#Random Allocation#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Up-Regulation'
b'BACKGROUND: Prior interventions to address declining interest in surgical careers have focused on creating early exposure and fostering mentorship at the preclinical medical student level. Navigating the surgical environment can be challenging, however, and preclinical students may be more likely to pursue a surgical career if they are given the tools to function optimally.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We designed a 10-wk technical and nontechnical skills curriculum to provide preclinical students with knowledge and skills necessary to successfully navigate the surgical learning environment, followed by placement in high-fidelity surgical simulations and scrubbing in on operative cases with attending surgeons. We administered pre-post surveys to assess student confidence levels in operative skills, self-perceptions of having a mentor, overall course efficacy, and interest in a career in surgery.RESULTS: The overall response rates presurvey and postsurvey were 100% (30 of 30) and 93.3% (28 of 30), respectively. Confidence levels across all operative skills increased significantly after completing the course. Faculty mentorship increased significantly from 30.0% before to 61.5% after the course. Overall effectiveness of the course was 4.00 of 5 (4\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0"very effective"), and although insignificant, overall interest in a career in surgery increased at the completion of the course from 3.77 (standard deviation\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.01) to 4.17 (standard deviation\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.94).CONCLUSIONS: Our curriculum was effective in teaching the skills necessary to enjoy positive experiences in planned early exposure and mentorship activities. Further study is warranted to determine if this intervention leads to an increase in students who formally commit to a career in surgery. labels: #California#Career Choice#Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#General Surgery#Humans#Male#Mentoring#Program Evaluation#Simulation Training'
b"BACKGROUND: Surgery is very cognitively demanding, particularly for novices. Novices are required to direct full attention on the procedure at hand, and additional demands can lead to cognitive overload. Through extensive practice, experts develop spare attentional capacity (SAC) for simultaneous tasks. However, little effort has been made to enhance novices' SAC. Mental skills may enhance attention management and increase SAC. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of a novel mental skills curriculum (MSC) to enhance novices' attention management.METHODS: Sixty novice volunteers were randomly stratified to a control or MSC group based on baseline laparoscopic skill and mental skill use (assessed with the Test of Performance Strategies version 2 [TOPS-2]). All participants received laparoscopic training, whereas the MSC group received additional mental skills training. At all sessions, participants completed a secondary task during laparoscopy, which assessed SAC. Participants also completed the D2 Test of Attention and the TOPS-2 attention control subscale, which are valid attention measures.RESULTS: Fifty-five novices completed the study. Both groups displayed significantly improved laparoscopic suturing ability (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and D2 performance (control: P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.005, MSC: P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01), but there were no between-group differences in D2 or TOPS attention control scores. However, only the MSC group displayed significantly improved hit rate on the secondary task (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: The novel MSC implemented in this study enhanced surgical novices' SAC compared to controls, and it is clear that this curriculum may be effective at enhancing learners' ability to attend multiple task-relevant stimuli concurrently. Additional study of the impact of this MSC on learners' attentional capacity is currently underway. labels: #Adult#Attention#Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Simulation Training#Surgeons#United States"
b"This 2017 Presidential Address for the Association for Academic Surgery was delivered on February 8, 2017. It addresses the difficult topic of gender disparities in surgery. Mixing empirical data with personal anecdotes, Dr. Caprice Greenberg provides an insightful overview of this difficult challenge facing the surgical discipline and practical advice on how we can begin to address it. labels: #Career Mobility#Faculty, Medical#Female#Gender Identity#Humans#Leadership#Male#Physician's Role#Physicians, Women#Salaries and Fringe Benefits#Sexism#Societies, Medical#Specialties, Surgical#Surgeons#United States#Women's Rights"
b"BACKGROUND: Nissen fundoplication is considered an advanced minimally invasive procedure whether performed laparoscopically or robotically. In laparoscopic surgery, it is evident that assistant skill level impacts operative times. However, the robotic platform allows improved surgeon autonomy. We aimed to determine the impact of assistant training level on operative times in robotic Nissen fundoplication (RNF) and laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF).METHODS: A prospectively maintained Nissen database (2011-2016) from a single academic institution was utilized to collect patient characteristics, operative times, length of stay, intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, readmission rate, and assistant training level. Assistants were either postgraduate year-3 surgery residents defined as junior-level assistants or a minimally invasive surgery (MIS) fellow defined as senior-level assistants.RESULTS: There were 105 patients included in our analyses. When comparing postgraduate year-3 residents to MIS fellows performing LNF, the median operative time was significantly decreased when senior-level assistants were present in the LNF group, 85 (75-103) versus 129 (74-269) min, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.02. In comparison, median operative times in the RNF group were independent of the assistant's level of training, 154 (71-300) versus 158 (101-215) min, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.34. There were no significant differences in outcomes between the junior- and senior-level assistant cohorts for estimated blood loss, length of stay, postoperative complications, and 30-d readmission rates in either the LNF or RNF group.CONCLUSIONS: Assistant training level impacted operative time for LNF but not RNF. These differences are most likely attributed to increased autonomy of the operating surgeon afforded by the robotic platform reducing assistant variability. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Competence#Education, Medical, Graduate#Fellowships and Scholarships#Female#Fundoplication#Humans#Internship and Residency#Laparoscopy#Male#Middle Aged#New York City#Operative Time#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Retrospective Studies#Robotic Surgical Procedures"
b"OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of miscarriage in women with endometriosis (WwE) compared with disease-free control women (CW).DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis nested in a retrospective observational study (n = 940).SETTING: Hospitals and associated private practices.PATIENT(S): Previously pregnant women (n = 268) within reproductive age in matched pairs.INTERVENTION(S): Retrospective analysis of surgical reports and self-administered questionnaires.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Rate of miscarriage, subanalysis for fertility status (\xe2\x89\xa412 vs.>12\xc2\xa0months' time to conception), endometriosis stages (revised American Society of Reproductive Medicine classification [rASRM] I/II vs. III/IV) and phenotypic localizations (superficial peritoneal, ovarian, and deep infiltrating endometriosis).RESULT(S): The miscarriage rate was higher in WwE (35.8% [95% confidence interval 29.6%-42.0%]) compared with CW (22.0% [16.7%-27.0%]); adjusted incidence risk ratio of 1.97 (95% CI 1.41-2.75). This remained significant in subfertile WwE (50.0% [40.7%-59.4%]) vs. CW (25.8% [8.5%-41.2%]) but not in fertile WwE (24.5% [16.3%-31.6%]) vs. CW (21.5% [15.9%-26.8%]). The miscarriage rate was higher in women with milder forms (rASRM I/II 42.1% [32.6%-51.4%] vs. rASRM III/IV 30.8% [22.6%-38.7%], compared with 22.0% [16.7%-27.0%] in CW), and in women with superficial peritoneal endometriosis (42.0% [32.0%-53.9%]) compared with ovarian endometriosis (28.6% [17.7%-38.7%]) and deep infiltrating endometriosis (33.9% [21.2%-46.0%]) compared with CW (22.0% [16.7%-27.0%]).CONCLUSION(S): Mild endometriosis, as in superficial lesions, is related to a great extent of inflammatory disorder, possibly leading to defective folliculogenesis, fertilization, and/or implantation, presenting as increased risk of miscarriage.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02511626. labels: #Abortion, Spontaneous#Adolescent#Adult#Cross-Sectional Studies#Endometriosis#Europe#Female#Fertility#Humans#Infertility, Female#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Pregnancy#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: To compare total antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone (AMH), proAMH, AMHN,C, and the ratio of the two forms in predictive models for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) diagnosis. Total AMH consists of proAMH (inactive precursor) and AMHN,C(receptor-competent), but neither isoform has been tested individually for their ability to predict PCOS diagnosis.DESIGN: Cross-sectional study using biobanked samples collected between July 2008 and January\xc2\xa02010.SETTING: Not applicable.PATIENT(S): Overweight, premenopausal women aged 18-45\xc2\xa0years with PCOS (n = 45, with 21 fulfilling National Institutes of Health diagnostic criteria and 24 fulfilling European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology/American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ESHRE) criteria, but not National Institutes of Health criteria) and without PCOS (n = 23 controls).INTERVENTION(S): None.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Serum concentrations of proAMH and total AMH (proAMH and AMHN,Ccombined) were determined by immunoassay. The AMHN,Cconcentrations were calculated by subtraction ([AMHN,C] = [total AMH]- [proAMH]). Relative levels of proAMH were expressed as the AMH prohormone index (API = [ProAMH]/[Total AMH] \xc3\x97 100).RESULT(S): In women with PCOS, total AMH, proAMH, and AMHN,Clevels were higher, and the API was lower (P=.010), than in controls indicating increased conversion of proAMH to AMHN,C. Receiver-operating characteristic analysis for proAMH (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.82), AMHN,C(AUC = 0.86), and API (AUC = 0.70) did not improve the prediction for PCOS when compared with total AMH (AUC = 0.86).CONCLUSION(S): The proAMH and AMHN,Cdo not appear to improve the ability to predict a diagnosis of PCOS beyond total AMH assays. However, the ratio of inactive proAMH precursor to receptor-competent AMHN,C(API) differs in women with PCOS relative to unaffected controls indicating that AMH signaling mechanisms may be altered in women with PCOS. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anti-Mullerian Hormone#Area Under Curve#Biomarkers#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Polycystic Ovary Syndrome#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Protein Isoforms#Protein Precursors#ROC Curve#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to acutely visualize radiofrequency ablation lesions, but its accuracy in predicting chronic lesion size is unknown. The main goal of this study was to characterize different areas of enhancement in late gadolinium enhancement MRI done immediately after ablation to predict acute edema and chronic lesion size.METHODS AND RESULTS: In a canine model (n=10), ventricular radiofrequency lesions were created using ThermoCool SmartTouch (Biosense Webster) catheter. All animals underwent MRI (late gadolinium enhancement and T2-weighted edema imaging) immediately after ablation and after 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. Edema, microvascular obstruction, and enhanced volumes were identified in MRI and normalized to chronic histological volume. Immediately after contrast administration, the microvascular obstruction region was 3.2\xc2\xb11.1 times larger than the chronic lesion volume in acute MRI. Even 60 minutes after contrast administration, edema was 8.7\xc2\xb13.31 times and the enhanced area 6.14\xc2\xb12.74 times the chronic lesion volume. Exponential fit to the microvascular obstruction volume was found to be the best predictor of chronic lesion volume at 26.14 minutes (95% prediction interval, 24.35-28.11 minutes) after contrast injection. The edema volume in late gadolinium enhancement correlated well with edema volume in T2-weighted MRI with anR2of 0.99.CONCLUSION: Microvascular obstruction region on acute late gadolinium enhancement images acquired 26.1 minutes after contrast administration can accurately predict the chronic lesion volume. We also show that T1-weighted MRI images acquired immediately after contrast injection accurately shows edema resulting from radiofrequency ablation. labels: #Animals#Biopsy#Catheter Ablation#Cicatrix#Contrast Media#Coronary Circulation#Dogs#Edema, Cardiac#Heart Ventricles#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Meglumine#Microcirculation#Models, Animal#Organometallic Compounds#Predictive Value of Tests#Time Factors'
b'Pigmentary hypertrichosis and non-autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (PHID) is associated with recessive mutations inSLC29A3, encoding the equilibrative nucleoside transporter hENT3 expressed in mitochondria, causing PHID and H syndromes, familial Rosai-Dorfman disease, and histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy-plus syndrome. Autoinflammation is increasingly recognized in these syndromes. We previously reported a 16-year-old girl with PHID syndrome associated with severe autoinflammation that was recalcitrant to interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 blockade. Tocilizumab is a humanized, monoclonal, anti-human interleukin-6 receptor antibody routinely used to treat arthritis in children and adults. Herein we report the first case of successful treatment of PHID syndrome using tocilizumab. Before commencing tocilizumab, there was evidence of significant systemic inflammation, and progressive sclerodermatous changes (physician global assessment [PGA] 7/10). Twelve weeks after starting tocilizumab (8 mg/kg every 2 weeks, intravenously) systemic inflammatory symptoms improved, and acute phase response markers normalized; serum amyloid A reduced from 178 to 8.4 mg/L. After a dose increase to 12 mg/kg every 2 weeks her energy levels, appetite, fevers, and night sweats further improved. Less skin tightness (PGA 5/10) was documented 12 months later. This excellent clinical and serological response was sustained over 48 months, and cutaneous sclerosis had improved further (PGA 3/10). Her height remained well below the 0.4th centile, and tocilizumab also had no impact on her diabetes or exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Although the mechanism of autoinflammation of PHID remains uncertain, we suggest that tocilizumab should be the first choice when considering treatment of the autoinflammatory or cutaneous manifestations of this genetic disease. labels: #Adolescent#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Contracture#Female#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Histiocytosis#Humans#Mutation#Nucleoside Transport Proteins#Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b'Purpose: To test the hypothesis that retinal vascular diameter and hemoglobin oxygen saturation alterations, according to stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR), are discernible with a commercially available scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO).Methods: One hundred eighty-one subjects with no diabetes (No DM), diabetes with no DR (No DR), nonproliferative DR (NPDR), or proliferative DR (PDR, all had photocoagulation) underwent imaging with an SLO with dual lasers (532 nm and 633 nm). Customized image analysis software determined the diameters of retinal arteries and veins (DA and DV) and central retinal artery and vein equivalents (CRAE and CRVE). Oxygen saturations of hemoglobin in arteries and veins (SO2A and SO2V) were estimated from optical densities of vessels on images at the two wavelengths. Statistical models were generated by adjusting for effects of sex, race, age, eye, and fundus pigmentation.Results: DA, CRAE, and CRVE were reduced in PDR compared to No DM (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.03). DV and CRVE were similar between No DM and No DR, but they were higher in NPDR than No DR (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.01). Effect of stage of disease on SO2A differed by race, being increased relative to No DM in NPDR and PDR in Hispanic participants only (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.02). Relative to No DM, SO2V was increased in NPDR and PDR (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05).Conclusions: Alterations in retinal vascular diameters and SO2 by diabetic retinopathy stage can be detected with a widely available SLO, and covariates such as race can influence the results. labels: #Adult#Aged#Diabetic Retinopathy#Equipment Design#Female#Hemoglobins#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ophthalmoscopes#Oximetry#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Retinal Vessels'
b'Purpose: Dry eye syndrome (DES) can cause blindness in severe cases, but mainly palliative treatments exist. A tissue-engineered lacrimal gland (LG) could provide a curative treatment. We aimed to evaluate decellularized porcine jejunum (SIS-Muc) as a scaffold for porcine LG epithelial cells.Methods: To evaluate SIS-Muc as a potential scaffold, basement membrane proteins in SIS-Muc and native LG were compared (immunohistochemistry [IHC]). Porcine LG epithelial cells cultured on plastic were characterized (immunocytochemistry), and their culture supernatant was compared with porcine tears (proteomics). Epithelial cells were then seeded onto SIS-Muc in either a static (cell crown) or dynamic culture (within a perfusion chamber) and metabolic (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) and secretory capacities (\xce\xb2-hexosaminidase assay), protein expression (IHC), and ultrastructure transmission electron microscopy (TEM) compared in each.Results: Collagen IV and laminin were found in both native LG and SIS-Muc. When cultured on plastic, LG epithelial cells expressed pan-cytokeratin, Rab3D, HexA, and produced mucins, but lysozyme and lactoferrin expression was nearly absent. Some porcine tear proteins (lipocalin-2 and lactoferrin) were found in LG epithelial cell culture supernatants. When LG cells were cultured on SIS-Muc, metabolic and \xce\xb2-hexosaminidase activities were greater in dynamic cultures than static cultures (P<0.05). In both static and dynamic cultures, cells expressed pan-cytokeratin, Rab3D, lysozyme, and lactoferrin and produced mucins, and TEM revealed cell polarization at the apical surface and cell-cell and cell-scaffold contacts.Conclusions: SIS-Muc is a suitable scaffold for LG cell expansion and may be useful toward reconstruction of LG tissue to provide a curative treatment for DES. Dynamic culture enhances cell metabolic and functional activities. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Disease Models, Animal#Dry Eye Syndromes#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Immunohistochemistry#Jejunum#Lacrimal Apparatus#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Ophthalmologic Surgical Procedures#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Swine#Tissue Engineering'
b'A 2240 gram boy was born at 33.2 weeks gestation with nonblanching, deeply erythematous plaques and papules on the back, flanks, and scalp (Figure 1). His mother was GBS positive and on antibiotic suppression for prior cutaneous MRSA and urinary tract infections. Intrapartum intravenous Penicillin G was administered, and the amniotic sac was artificially ruptured 4 hours prior to delivery to facilitate labor. The delivery was uncomplicated without concern for chorioamnionitis, but the patient initially required CPAP for respiratory distress with 1-minute and 5-minute Apgar scores of 7 and 8, respectively. A skin punch biopsy is shown (Figure 2). labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Apgar Score#Biopsy, Needle#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gestational Age#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Impetigo#Infant, Newborn#Infant, Premature#Male#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Newborn#Streptococcal Infections#Treatment Outcome'
b'We propose and analyze a compartmental nonlinear deterministic mathematical model for the typhoid fever outbreak and optimal control strategies in a community with varying population. The model is studied qualitatively using stability theory of differential equations and the basic reproductive number that represents the epidemic indicator is obtained from the largest eigenvalue of the next-generation matrix. Both local and global asymptotic stability conditions for disease-free and endemic equilibria are determined. The model exhibits a forward transcritical bifurcation and the sensitivity analysis is performed. The optimal control problem is designed by applying Pontryagin maximum principle with three control strategies, namely, the prevention strategy through sanitation, proper hygiene, and vaccination; the treatment strategy through application of appropriate medicine; and the screening of the carriers. The cost functional accounts for the cost involved in prevention, screening, and treatment together with the total number of the infected persons averted. Numerical results for the typhoid outbreak dynamics and its optimal control revealed that a combination of prevention and treatment is the best cost-effective strategy to eradicate the disease. labels: #Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Mass Screening#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Nonlinear Dynamics#Typhoid Fever'
b"In the frame of Higuchi's type functionality, this paper presents the anisotropy influences on the drug delivery mechanisms through the joint invariant functions to the simultaneous actions of the two SL(2R) isomorphic groups. Then, a new equation for drug delivery mechanism, independent of the type of polymer matrix and/or drug, is proposed. labels: #Anisotropy#Biocompatible Materials#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Diffusion#Drug Delivery Systems#Humans#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Polymers"
b'Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a syndrome with predominantly defective B cell function. However, abnormalities in the number and function of other lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood (PB) have been described in most patients. We have analysed the distribution of iNKT cell subpopulations in the PB of CVID patients and the ability of these cells to provide in\xc2\xa0vitro cognate B cell help. The total of iNKT cells was reduced in the PB of CVID patients, especially CD4+, CD4-/CD8- and CCR5+/CXCR3+. These findings were associated with an enrichment of memory-like and a tendency towards a reduction in TNF-\xce\xb1-expressing effector iNKT cells in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of CVID patients. Moreover, an accumulation of follicular helper iNKT cells in the PB of CVID patients was demonstrated. CVID \xce\xb1GalCer-pulsed iNKT cells are not able to induce autologous B cell proliferation although they do induce proliferation to healthy donor B cells. Interestingly, autologous and heterologous co-cultures did not differ in the amount of immunoglobulin secreted by B cells in\xc2\xa0vitro. Finally, reduced intracellular SAP expression in iNKT cells and other lymphocytes in the blood from CVID patients was observed. These results provide further insights into the immunological mechanisms underlying the iNKT cell defects and the potential targets to improve B cell help in CVID. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#B-Lymphocytes#CD4 Antigens#CD8 Antigens#Cell Communication#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Coculture Techniques#Common Variable Immunodeficiency#Female#Galactosylceramides#Humans#Immunoglobulins#Immunologic Memory#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Middle Aged#Natural Killer T-Cells#Receptors, CCR5#Receptors, CXCR3#Saposins#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Leishmania is a protozoan parasite that alternates its life cycle between the sand-fly vector and the mammalian host. This alternation involves environmental changes and leads the parasite to dynamic modifications in morphology, metabolism, cellular signaling and regulation of gene expression to allow for a rapid adaptation to new conditions. The L-arginine pathway in L. amazonensis is important during the parasite life cycle and interferes in the establishment and maintenance of the infection in mammalian macrophages. Host arginase is an immune-regulatory enzyme that can reduce the production of nitric oxide by activated macrophages, directing the availability of L-arginine to the polyamine pathway, resulting in parasite replication. In this work, we performed transcriptional profiling to identify differentially expressed genes in L. amazonensis wild-type (La-WT) versus L. amazonensis arginase knockout (La-arg-) promastigotes and axenic amastigotes.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A total of 8253 transcripts were identified in La-WT and La-arg- promastigotes and axenic amastigotes, about 60% of them codifying hypothetical proteins and 443 novel transcripts, which did not match any previously annotated genes. Our RNA-seq data revealed that 85% of genes were constitutively expressed. The comparison of transcriptome and metabolome data showed lower levels of arginase and higher levels of glutamate-5-kinase in La-WT axenic amastigotes compared to promastigotes. The absence of arginase activity in promastigotes increased the levels of pyrroline 5-carboxylate reductase, but decreased the levels of arginosuccinate synthase, pyrroline 5-carboxylate dehydrogenase, acetylornithine deacetylase and spermidine synthase transcripts levels. These observations can explain previous metabolomic data pointing to the increase of L-arginine, citrulline and L-glutamate and reduction of aspartate, proline, ornithine and putrescine. Altogether, these results indicate that arginase activity is important in Leishmania gene expression modulation during differentiation and adaptation to environmental changes. Here, we confirmed this hypothesis with the identification of differential gene expression of the enzymes involved in biosynthesis of amino acids, arginine and proline metabolism and arginine biosynthesis.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: All data provided information about the transcriptomic profiling and the expression levels of La-WT and La-arg- promastigotes and axenic amastigotes. These findings revealed the importance of arginase in parasite survival and differentiation, and indicated the existence of a coordinated response in the absence of arginase activity related to arginine and polyamine pathways. labels: #Arginase#Arginine#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Knockout Techniques#Leishmania mexicana#Macrophages#Nitric Oxide#Polyamines#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'The interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) encodes one of the most abundant proteins induced by interferon, and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity. To identify protein components implicated in IFN and ISG15 signaling, we compared the proteomes of ISG15-/- and ISG15+/+ bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDM) after vaccinia virus (VACV) infection. The results of this analysis revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were pathways altered in ISG15-/- BMDM treated with IFN. Mitochondrial respiration, Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was higher in ISG15+/+ BMDM than in ISG15-/- BMDM following IFN treatment, indicating the involvement of ISG15-dependent mechanisms. An additional consequence of ISG15 depletion was a significant change in macrophage polarization. Although infected ISG15-/- macrophages showed a robust proinflammatory cytokine expression pattern typical of an M1 phenotype, a clear blockade of nitric oxide (NO) production and arginase-1 activation was detected. Accordingly, following IFN treatment, NO release was higher in ISG15+/+ macrophages than in ISG15-/- macrophages concomitant with a decrease in viral titer. Thus, ISG15-/- macrophages were permissive for VACV replication following IFN treatment. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that ISG15 governs the dynamic functionality of mitochondria, specifically, OXPHOS and mitophagy, broadening its physiological role as an antiviral agent. labels: #Animals#Arginase#Cytokines#Enzyme Activation#Macrophages#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Degradation#Nitric Oxide#Oxidative Phosphorylation#Ubiquitins#Vaccinia#Vaccinia virus'
b'Background: For health care providers in the United States, the risk for nonfatal violence in the workplace is 16 times greater than that for other workers. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior (IPSB) is directed at clinicians, staff, or other patients and may include leering, sexual remarks, deliberate touching, indecent exposure, and sexual assault. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior may adversely affect clinicians, the organization, or patients themselves. Few IPSB risk factors for physical therapists have been confirmed. The US prevalence was last assessed in the 1990s.Objective: The objectives of this study were to determine career and 12-month exposure to IPSB among US physical therapists, physical therapist assistants, physical therapist students, and physical therapist assistant students and to identify IPSB risk factors.Design: This was a retrospective and observational study.Methods: An electronic survey was developed; content validity and test-retest reliability were established. Participants were recruited through physical therapist and physical therapist assistant academic programs and sections of the American Physical Therapy Association. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior risk models were constructed individually for any, mild, moderate, and severe IPSB events reported over the past 12 months. Open-ended comments were analyzed using qualitative methods.Results: Eight hundred ninety-two physical therapist professionals and students completed the survey. The career prevalence among respondents was 84%, and the 12-month prevalence was 47%. Statistical risk modeling for any IPSB over the past 12 months indicated the following risks: having fewer years of direct patient care, routinely working with patients with cognitive impairments, being a female practitioner, and treating male patients. Qualitative analysis of 187 open-ended comments revealed patient-related characteristics, provider-related characteristics, and abusive actions.Limitations: Self-report, clinician memory, and convenience sampling are limitations of this type of survey research.Conclusions: The extremely high prevalence of IPSB among physical therapist professionals warrants practitioner and student education as well as clear workplace policy and support. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Physical Therapy Specialty#Physician-Patient Relations#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk#Risk Factors#Sex Offenses#Sexual Behavior#United States'
b'Background: There is significant need for trials evaluating the long-term effectiveness of a rigorous program of perioperative behavioral therapy with pelvic floor muscle training (BPMT) in women undergoing transvaginal reconstructive surgery for prolapse.Objective: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of perioperative BPMT on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and sexual function following vaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse (POP) and stress urinary incontinence (SUI).Design: This study is a secondary report of a 2 \xc3\x97 2 factorial randomized controlled trial.Setting: This study was a multicenter trial.Participants: Participants were adult women with stage 2-4 POP and SUI.Intervention: Perioperative BPMT versus usual care and sacrospinous ligament fixation (SSLF) versus uterosacral ligament suspension (ULS) were provided.Measurements: Participants undergoing transvaginal surgery (SSLF or ULS for POP and a midurethral sling for SUI) received usual care or five perioperative BPMT visits. The primary outcome was change in body image and in Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ) short-form subscale, 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), Pelvic Organ Prolapse-Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire short form (PISQ-12), Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGII), and Brink scores.Results: The 374 participants were randomized to BPMT (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0186) and usual care (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0188). Outcomes were available for 137 (74%) of BPMT participants and 146 (78%) of the usual care participants at 24 months. There were no statistically significant differences between groups in PFIQ, SF-36, PGII, PISQ-12, or body image scale measures.Limitations: The clinicians providing BPMT had variable expertise. Findings might not apply to vaginal prolapse procedures without slings or abdominal apical prolapse procedures.Conclusions: Perioperative BPMT performed as an adjunct to vaginal surgery for POP and SUI provided no additional improvement in QOL or sexual function compared with usual care. labels: #Behavior Therapy#Body Image#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Pelvic Organ Prolapse#Perioperative Care#Quality of Life#Resistance Training#Sexual Behavior#Suburethral Slings#Surveys and Questionnaires#Treatment Outcome'
b'Background: The Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC) is a generic metric of patient-reported functional status. The minimal clinically important difference (MCID) in the AM-PAC score has not been determined.Objective: The study objective was to determine the MCID for AM-PAC in people with low back pain.Design: This was a retrospective cohort study.Methods: Anchor-based and distribution-based methods were used to estimate the MCID. The Modified Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire was used as the anchor. Adults who had a primary ICD-9 code for low back pain in at least 1 outpatient physical therapist visit during an episode of care and who completed both the AM-PAC and the Modified Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire in at least 2 visits during the care episode were included. The MCID was calculated for the AM-PAC basic mobility version as well its adapted version, which the Cleveland Clinic uses for patients 65 years old or older.Results: A total of 1,271 participants were eligible for study. For the AM-PAC basic mobility version, anchor-based methods yielded MCID estimates of between 3.4 and 5.1, whereas distribution-based methods yielded estimates of 1.7 to 4.2. The minimal detectable change (MDC) for the AM-PAC basic mobility version was 3.3. For the adapted AM-PAC basic mobility version, the MCID was estimated to be between 2.9 and 4.0 via anchor-based methods and between 1.2 to 3.5 via distribution-based methods. The MDC for the adapted AM-PAC basic mobility version was 3.5.Limitations: The estimated MCID was designed for people with low back pain only.Conclusions: The MCID ranged from 3.3 to 5.1 for the AM-PAC basic mobility version and 3.5 to 4 for the adapted version, with the MDC as the lower limit. Changes in the AM-PAC for people with low back pain may be interpreted using the estimated MCID. Future studies are needed to determine the AM-PAC MCID for populations other than those with low back pain. labels: #Adult#Disability Evaluation#Exercise#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Middle Aged#Minimal Clinically Important Difference#Pain Measurement#Patient Reported Outcome Measures#Retrospective Studies#Subacute Care#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b"Background: Evidence-based guidelines are needed to inform rehabilitation practice, including the effect of number of exercise training sessions on recovery of walking ability after stroke.Objective: The objective of this study was to determine the response to increasing number of training sessions of 2 interventions-locomotor training and strength and balance exercises-on poststroke walking recovery.Design: This is a secondary analysis of the Locomotor Experience Applied Post-Stroke (LEAPS) randomized controlled trial.Setting: Six rehabilitation sites in California and Florida and participants' homes were used.Participants: Participants were adults who dwelled in the community (N=347), had had a stroke, were able to walk at least 3 m (10 ft) with assistance, and had completed the required number of intervention sessions.Intervention: Participants received 36 sessions (3 times per week for 12 weeks), 90 minutes in duration, of locomotor training (gait training on a treadmill with body-weight support and overground training) or strength and balance training.Measurements: Talking speed, as measured by the 10-Meter Walk Test, and 6-minute walking distance were assessed before training and following 12, 24, and 36 intervention sessions.Results: Participants at 2 and 6 months after stroke gained in gait speed and walking endurance after up to 36 sessions of treatment, but the rate of gain diminished steadily and, on average, was very low during the 25- to 36-session epoch, regardless of treatment type or severity of impairment.Limitations: Results may not generalize to people who are unable to initiate a step at 2 months after stroke or people with severe cardiac disease.Conclusions: In general, people who dwelled in the community showed improvements in gait speed and walking distance with up to 36 sessions of locomotor training or strength and balance exercises at both 2 and 6 months after stroke. However, gains beyond 24 sessions tended to be very modest. The tracking of individual response trajectories is imperative in planning treatment. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postural Balance#Recovery of Function#Resistance Training#Single-Blind Method#Stroke#Stroke Rehabilitation#Treatment Outcome#Walking#Walking Speed"
b'Background: The Pelvic Girdle Questionnaire (PGQ) is a condition-specific measure for women with pelvic girdle pain (PGP). The PGQ includes items relating to activity/participation and bodily symptoms and has reliability, validity, and feasibility for use in research and clinical practice.Objective: The purposes of this study were to examine the responsiveness of the PGQ, to determine the minimal important change (MIC) for the PGQ, and to compare the PGQ with other outcome measures.Design: This study used a prospective cohort design.Methods: A total of 801 women responded to a booklet of questionnaires in the last trimester of their pregnancy and within 3 months post partum. Responsiveness analyses followed recommendations from the Consensus-Based Standards for the Selection of Health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) checklist. The responsiveness of the PGQ was tested by examining correlations between the change scores of the total PGQ and the other patient-reported outcome measures.Results: A total of 606 women (76%) reported PGP, low back pain, or both. Of these women, 441 (73%) responded to the follow-up questionnaire post partum. The PGQ (both subscale and total scores) discriminated most accurately between participants who improved and those who did not improve, with an area under the receiver operator characteristic curve of 72%. The MIC values indicated that a change score smaller than 25 for the total score and activity subscale score and a change score of 20 for the symptom subscale score should be regarded as insignificant. Baseline PGQ scores had a large impact on the MIC estimates for the absolute change scores but not on the relative percentage change scores. Five of 6 hypotheses were supported (83%).Limitations: The type of anchor and definition of important change used might be weaknesses in women whose status is changing from pregnant to post partum.Conclusions: The PGQ showed acceptable responsiveness in women with PGP, low back pain, or both. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Minimal Clinically Important Difference#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Pelvic Girdle Pain#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'So called "personalized therapy" has revolutionized the care of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The discovery of more and more driver mutations in NSCLC has led to a molecular defined sub classification of lung cancer patients. For four driver mutations (EGFRmut, ALKtransl, ROS1transl, BRAF-V600mut) firstline approved drugs are available and became the treatment of choice. Further drugs are in clinical development or can be used as off-label treatment. The emergence of resistance under targeted therapy, the development of new drugs for further driver mutations and the broad implementation of molecular diagnostics for all lung cancer patients are future challenges. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Mutation#Precision Medicine'
b'Within the last years, significant improvements have been achieved in breast cancer treatment, particularly with the development of targeted therapies. Major progress has been made in identifying the drivers malignant growth in oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer and the mechanisms of resistance to endocrine therapy. This progress has translated into several targeted therapies that enhance the efficacy of endocrine therapy; inhibitors of the cyclin-dependent kinases CDK4 and CDK6 like palbociclib and inhibitors of mTOR substantially improve progression-free survival. For patients with HER2-positive disease the addition of Pertuzumab to Trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy has been a significant improvement in anti-HER2 therapy in early as well as metastatic breast cancer. Evidence-based further line therapy options in the metastatic setting include T-DM1 and in later lines Lapatinib. For triple negative disease the angiogenesis inhibitor Bevacizumab is approved, which increases progression free survival. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, PARP-inhibitors or anti-androgens represent promising strategies, all of which are currently being evaluated in clinical trials. The development of predictive biomarkers to guide targeted therapies is still the subject of research. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Molecular Targeted Therapy'
b'Colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is a major cause for cancer related death in Western countries. Particularly in the metastatic stage (mCRC) 5-year survival rate remains low at around 15\xe2\x80\x8a%. Treatment decisions are influenced by tumor stage, location of the primary, and extend of metastases. The multidisciplinary tumor board with an experienced hepato-biliary surgeon, an interventional radiologist, the medical oncologist, the molecular pathologist and the radiation oncologist will gain further importance in the quest for the optimal treatment for each patient. In the adjuvant setting, next to the established clinical risk factors, individualization especially for UICC-stage II patients can be done according to the CDX2-expression, the MSI-status, and perhaps the PIK3-status. In the metastatic stage, RAS and BRAF mutational analyses are pivotal to choose the best treatment for our patients. Primary tumor location in RAS-wild-type patients is further helping the clinician to tailor first-line treatment. Ongoing phase-III-trials will further help the clinician to come to a personalized decision. labels: #Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#DNA Mutational Analysis#Humans#Precision Medicine#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Survival Analysis'
b'Medical history\xe2\x80\x82We report on a 51-year-old male patient with thoracic pain of acute onset with radiation in the left arm. His cardiovascular risk factors include obesity, smoking and arterial hypertension.Investigations\xe2\x80\x82ECG showed no signs of ischemia. The blood\xc2\xa0test revealed increasing troponin (37\xe2\x80\x8apg/ml; Norm<\xe2\x80\x8a14\xe2\x80\x8apg/ml). Therefore we performed cardiac catheterization. The RIVA demonstrated a medial filling defect. Use of OCT imaging showed intimal rupture associated with thrombus.Treatment and course\xe2\x80\x82The lesion was stented with a drug eluting stent. We initiated a medication with aspirin, ticagrelor, metoprolol and simvastatin.Conclusion\xe2\x80\x82Coronary thrombosis of our patient was caused by spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD). SCAD\xe2\x80\x8ais an important differential diagnosis in patients with ACS. Further prospective studies and guideline recommendations are needed in the future. labels: #Chest Pain#Coronary Thrombosis#Coronary Vessel Anomalies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Non-ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction#Risk Factors#Vascular Diseases'
b'INTRODUCTION: Soft tissue occlusion of the external auditory canal (EAC) can cause intense pruritis, recurrent foul smelling otorrhea, recurrent otitis externa, and conductive hearing loss. Occlusion of the EAC can be challenging to treat as the area is prone to circumferential scarring.METHODS: We describe the novel use of serial bipolar radiofrequency ablation (coblation) to treat 3 children with complete EAC occlusion from congenital and acquired conditions including lymphedema (1), microcystic lymphatic malformation (1), and venolymphatic malformation (1).RESULTS: Patients underwent a mean of 3 procedures with postoperative EAC stenting (7 days) and antibiotic and steroid aural preparations (10 days). Otologic symptoms resolved in all patients, and their EACs remained patent 14 months after last procedure (range, 4-32 months). One patient experienced a pinpoint tympanic membrane perforation that healed spontaneously 2 weeks later.CONCLUSIONS: Coblation of soft tissue stenosis of the EAC can be an effective treatment for this problematic condition. labels: #Catheter Ablation#Child#Child, Preschool#Ear Canal#Ear Diseases#Female#Humans#Infant#Lymphatic Abnormalities#Male'
b'OBJECTIVES: Occupational voice users report higher instances of vocal health problems. Women, who are more likely than men to report voice problems, are the largest members of some occupational voice users, such as teachers. While a common complaint among this population is vocal fatigue, it has been difficult to quantify. Therefore, the goal of this study is to quantify vocal fatigue generally in school teachers and investigate any related gender differences.METHODS: Six hundred forty (518 female, 122 male) teachers were surveyed using an online questionnaire consisting in part of the Vocal Fatigue Index (VFI), an index specifically designed to quantify vocal fatigue.RESULTS: Compared to vocally healthy adults, the teachers surveyed were 3 times as likely to report vocal tiredness or vocal avoidance and over 3 times as likely to report physical voice discomfort. Additionally, female teachers were more likely to have scores approaching those with dysphonia.CONCLUSIONS: The VFI quantified elevated levels of vocal fatigue in teachers, with a significant prevalence of symptoms reported among females compared to males. Further, because the VFI indicated elevated complaints (between normal and dysphonic) in a population likely to be elevated, the VFI might be used to identify early indications of voice problems and/or track recovery. labels: #Adult#Educational Personnel#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Diseases#Prevalence#Sex Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires#Voice Disorders#Voice Quality'
b'OBJECTIVES: Tissue engineering of auricular cartilage has great potential in providing readily available materials for reconstructive surgeries. As the field of tissue engineering moves forward to developing human tissues, there needs to be an interspecies comparison of the native auricular cartilage in order to determine a suitable animal model to assess the performance of engineered auricular cartilage in vivo.METHODS: Here, we performed interspecies comparisons of auricular cartilage by comparing tissue microstructure, protein localization, biochemical composition, and mechanical properties of auricular cartilage tissues from rat, rabbit, pig, cow, and human.RESULTS: Human, pig, and cow auricular cartilage have smaller lacunae compared to rat and rabbit cartilage ( P<.05). Despite differences in tissue microstructure, human auricular cartilage has similar biochemical composition to both rat and rabbit. Auricular cartilage from pig and cow, alternatively, display significantly higher glycosaminoglycan and collagen contents compared to human, rat, and rabbit ( P<.05). The mechanical properties of human auricular cartilage were comparable to that of all 4 animal species.CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study that compares the microstructural, biochemical, and mechanical properties of auricular cartilage from different species. This study showed that different experimental animal models of human auricular cartilage may be suitable in different cases. labels: #Animals#Cattle#Ear Cartilage#Humans#Models, Animal#Rabbits#Rats#Swine#Tissue Engineering'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of in-office potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) treatment of vocal fold granulomas and identify any predictors of complete lesion resolution.METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who underwent in-office KTP ablation of vocal fold granulomas between 2007 and 2016 was performed. Medical records were reviewed for use of acid suppression medication, prior surgical treatment, voice therapy, laser settings, number of treatments, follow-up time, and Voice Handicap Index-10 (VHI-10) scores.RESULTS: Twenty-six patients underwent a total of 43 laser treatments. Eighty percent of patients were previously on acid suppression medication, and 42.3% had failed previous endoscopic treatments. Patients underwent a mean number of 1.65 \xc2\xb1 1.16 in-office treatments with decrease in size in 96.2% of cases. The VHI-10 was not significantly affected. Complete resolution occurred in 73.1% of cases with follow-up time ranging from 1 to 86 months (median = 9.5 months). No recurrences occurred in patients with complete resolution. Other than undergoing a single KTP treatment, no variable was found to be predictive of complete lesion resolution. Granuloma etiology was not predictive of lesion resolution but did correlate with symptom improvement.CONCLUSION: In-office pulsed KTP laser is an effective treatment option for vocal fold granulomas as the lesion resolves in the majority of cases. labels: #Aged#Ambulatory Surgical Procedures#Female#Granuloma, Laryngeal#Humans#Laser Therapy#Lasers, Solid-State#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vocal Cords#Voice Quality'
b'BACKGROUND: Stimuli-responsive polymer materials are a new kind of intelligent materials based on the concept of bionics, which exhibits more significant changes in physicochemical properties upon triggered by tiny environment stimuli, hence providing a good carrier platform for antitumor drug delivery.RESULTS: Dual stimuli-responsive Fe3O4graft poly(acrylic acid)-block-poly(2-methacryloyloxyethyl ferrocenecarboxylate) block copolymers (Fe3O4-g-PAA-b-PMAEFC) were engineered and synthesized through a two-step sequential reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer polymerization route. The characterization was performed by FTIR,1H NMR, SEC, XRD and TGA techniques. The self-assembly behavior in aqueous solution upon triggered by pH, magnetic and redox stimuli was investigated via zeta potentials, vibration sample magnetometer, cyclic voltammetry, fluorescent spectrometry, dynamic light scattering, XPS, TEM and SEM measurements. The experimental results indicated that the Fe3O4-g-PAA-b-PMAEFC copolymer materials could spontaneously assemble into hybrid magnetic copolymer micromicelles with core-shell structure, and exhibited superparamagnetism, redox and pH stimuli-responsive features. The hybrid copolymer micromicelles were stable and nontoxic, and could entrap hydrophobic anticancer drug, which was in turn swiftly and effectively delivered from the drug-loaded micromicelles at special microenvironments such as acidic pH and high reactive oxygen species.CONCLUSION: This class of stimuli-responsive copolymer materials is expected to find wide applications in medical science and biology, etc., especially in drug delivery system. labels: #Acrylic Resins#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Cell Line, Tumor#Delayed-Action Preparations#Drug Delivery Systems#Drug Liberation#Ferrosoferric Oxide#Ferrous Compounds#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Magnetic Fields#Micelles#Neoplasms#Oxidation-Reduction#Paclitaxel#Polymers'
b'BACKGROUND: Cerebral salt-wasting syndrome (CSWS) was initially described over 60 years ago in hyponatremic patients with a cerebral lesion. However, the diagnostic criteria for CSWS have not been fully established. Thus, when hyponatremia is observed in patients with CSWS, they may be misdiagnosed as having the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Thus, it is critical to differentiate between these 2 conditions because their treatments are diametrically opposed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of 45 patients with CSWS and compared them to 60 normonatremic control patients, and 28 patients with SIADH. All patients had their 24-hour urine volumes and sodium (Na) excretion measured.RESULTS: In patients with CSWS, urinary Na excretion was 394 \xc2\xb1 369mmol/24 hours and urinary volume was 2,603 \xc2\xb1 996mL/24 hours; both values significantly greater than in controls (P<0.01). By contrast, in patients with SIADH, the urine Na excretion was only 51 \xc2\xb1 25mmol/24 hours and urine volume was 745 \xc2\xb1 298mL/24 hours; values significantly lower than in patients with CSWS (P<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: CSWS was diagnosed in patients with cerebral lesion who had (1) symptomatic hyponatremia, (2) urine Na excretion 2 standard deviations above controls and (3) increased urine volume. Patients with SIADH also had symptomatic hyponatremia but, in contrast to patients with CSWS, they had decreased Na excretion and urine volume. Thus urine Na excretion and volume are very important for diagnosing the cause of hyponatremia in patients with cerebral lesions. labels: #Brain Diseases#Female#Humans#Hyponatremia#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sodium#Syndrome'
b'BACKGROUND: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a common and specific microvascular complication of diabetes. The association of bone metabolic markers with the risk of DR and diabetic macular edema (DME) is unclear.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We investigated the association between bone turnover markers commonly examined in a clinical setting and DR and DME risk in elderly Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). A total of 408 patients aged 55-70 years with T2DM were included. We first performed univariable logistic regression followed by multivariable logistic regression that included variables selected using purposeful selection.RESULTS: Fasting blood glucose (P = 0.007) and duration of diabetes (P<0.0001) were significantly associated with DME in multivariable logistic regression; however, the association of beta C-terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (\xce\xb2-CTx) with DME risk was not statistically significant (P = 0.053). Sex-stratified analysis showed that \xce\xb2-CTx was significantly associated with DME only in female subjects (P = 0.011).CONCLUSIONS: \xce\xb2-CTx had no significant association with DR. It was significantly associated with DME in female patients with T2DM, but not in male patients with T2DM. More prospective studies with larger sample sizes are warranted to validate our findings. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Bone Remodeling#Collagen Type I#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Macular Edema#Male#Middle Aged#Peptides#Sex Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite a rise in the prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), data on HCC-related hospitalizations and financial burden are limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate temporal trends of HCC-related hospitalizations and evaluate its financial influence.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with the diagnosis of HCC, as reported by International Classification of Diseases-Ninth Revision code, were identified from the National Inpatient Sample databases from 2002-2011. The national estimates of hospitalizations were derived using appropriate sample weights. The change in total average charges per each hospitalization over the study period was calculated after adjusting for inflation.RESULTS: Hospitalizations related to HCC have increased from 24,024 in 2002 to 50,609 in 2011. Of these admissions, HCC was the principal diagnosis in 10,762 and 16,350 subjects in 2002 and 2011, respectively. Most were white males (male: 70%; white: 55%). The overall inpatient mortality was significantly decreased from 13.5% in 2002 to 9.9% in 2011 (P<0.01). The same trend was also observed for the length of hospital stay (6.5 versus 5.6 days in 2002 and 2011, respectively). The inflation-adjusted cost per hospitalization increased by approximately 47% during the study period.CONCLUSIONS: Despite the decrease in mortality rate and length-of-stay, hospitalizations and financial burden associated with HCC continued to increase between 2002 and 2011 in the United States. labels: #Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cost of Illness#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Variation in baseline ear temperature, taken in the unadjusted mode, has yet to be established in different age groups. Because normal body temperatures show large variations, the same may be expected for increased temperatures in fever. The aims were to study variations in normothermic body temperatures measured with an ear thermometer and to determine differences between actual and perceived body temperature during a febrile episode (referred to as difftemp) in apparently healthy children and adults.METHODS: Ear temperature was measured once in 2,006 individuals (61.7% females): 683 children aged 2 and 4 years, 492 adolescents aged 10-18 years, 685 adults aged 19-65 years and 146 elderly aged 66-89 years. Difftemp was estimated as the difference between the individual's ear body temperature, measured in the present study, and the respondent's reported temperature when feverish.RESULTS: Mean ear temperature was 36.4 \xc2\xb1 0.6\xc2\xb0C overall and in the child and adult groups. In adolescents, it was 36.5 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C, and in elderly, 36.1 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C. Temperature in men was 36.3 \xc2\xb1 0.6\xc2\xb0C, and in women, 36.5 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C. Difftemp was 1.1 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in adolescents, 1.5 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in children and adults, and 1.6 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in those>65 years.CONCLUSIONS: Ear body temperature is lower than traditionally reported and differs with age and sex. An individual difftemp of 1.0-1.5\xc2\xb0C along with malaise might indicate fever. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aging#Body Temperature#Child#Child, Preschool#Ear#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Sex Factors#Thermometers"
b"BACKGROUND: Ischemic heart disease (IHD) has emerged as a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with autoimmune conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, but the risk of IHD in Sj\xc3\xb6gren's syndrome (SjS) is unknown. To fill this knowledge gap, we estimated the prevalence and risk of IHD with SjS compared to controls from the general population using the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project National Inpatient Sample 2011 database.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project administrative longitudinal database contains encounter-level information on inpatient stays, emergency department visits and ambulatory surgery in all U.S. hospitals. We conducted a cross-sectional study among the inpatient population diagnosed with SjS and matched 1:4 with controls for age, sex and hospital region. Odds ratio for IHD was calculated as cases compared to controls. The contribution of various risk factors to IHD was also evaluated by logistic regression.RESULTS: Analysis demonstrated that 7,154 of 13,086 cases (54.7%) of SjS had IHD compared to 27,367 of 52,448 controls (52.2%). The adjusted odds ratio for IHD in those with SjS was 0.898 (95% CI: 0.844-0.955). Patients with SjS were significantly more likely to have hypertension, diabetes, apnea and lipid disorders.CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest population-based study investigating the risk of IHD in patients with SjS. We found a modest, though statistically significant, decrease in the risk of IHD in SjS compared to controls. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Ischemia#Risk Factors#Sjogren's Syndrome#United States"
b'BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is commonly associated with cognitive dysfunction, which is more apparent in severe OSA and impairs quality of life. However, the clinical screening methods for these impairments in OSA are still limited. In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of using the Memory and Executive Screening (MES) for assessing cognitive performance in OSA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients with nonsevere OSA and 36 patients with severe OSA participated in this study. All participants underwent comprehensive, laboratory-based polysomnography and completed assessments of cognitive function, which included both the MES and the Beijing version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA-BJ).RESULTS: Both the total MES scores and 5 recall scores of the MES (MES-5R) were significantly lower in the severe OSA group than those in the nonsevere OSA group. The patients with severe OSA performed worse on the memory subtests of the MES-5R, especially on immediate recall. The sensitivity and specificity of the MES for identifying cognitive impairment in patients with OSA were 63.89% and 66.67%, respectively, for a cutoff value of<92 out of 100 points. An optimal cutoff between nonsevere and severe OSA was also set at 45 points (MES-5R) and at 0.94 points (MES ratio). Compared with the MES, the MoCA-BJ had similar sensitivity (61.11%) and specificity (66.67%).CONCLUSIONS: The MES is an acceptable tool for detecting cognitive dysfunction in patients with OSA. The sensitivity and specificity of the MES were similar to those of the MoCA-BJ. The MES-5R and total MES scores can assess the presence and severity of cognitive impairment in patients with severe OSA. labels: #Adult#Cognitive Dysfunction#Humans#Male#Memory#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive'
b'BACKGROUND: Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) has emerged as a noninvasive method for assessing inflammation in lung diseases. Our aim is to investigate the correlation between tumor necrosis factor \xce\xb1 (TNF-\xce\xb1) and interleukin 1\xce\xb2 (IL-1\xce\xb2) in EBC and in lung tissue, and between these values in EBC with pulmonary function tests in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).MATERIALS AND METHODS: To ensure the availability of lung tissue, 60 patients undergoing resection for early lung cancer were divided into 3 groups: a COPD treatment group, a COPD control group and a non-COPD group. Patients in the COPD treatment group received what was termed "lung-protective treatment" including ambroxol, budesonide and ipratropium bromide in addition to chest physiotherapy. Patients underwent pulmonary function testing and EBC collection, and TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in lung tissues were evaluated by immunoflorescense. Correlations were analyzed by Pearson correlation coefficients.RESULTS: The TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 levels in EBC were significantly higher in the COPD groups compared with the non-COPD group before surgery (all P<0.01), and the levels were significantly decreased after lung-protective treatment was received before surgery (all P<0.01). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 levels in EBC were significantly decreased in all patients after surgery with lung-protective treatment (P = 0.027, P = 0.004). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 content in lung tissues was significantly higher in the COPD groups (all P<0.05), and the histologic analysis showed similar results. Negative correlations between FEV1/FVC and expression of TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 were observed. There was a positive correlation between TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in lung tissues and in EBC.CONCLUSIONS: TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in EBC are potential biomarkers for evaluating pulmonary function and inflammation in patients with COPD. Furthermore, lung-protective treatment is effective in reducing inflammation in patients with COPD. labels: #Aged#Ambroxol#Breath Tests#Budesonide#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Interleukin-1beta#Ipratropium#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Retrospective Studies#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'BACKGROUND: Colon cancer is a major health problem worldwide. Available treatments such as surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and anticancer drugs are limited due to stage of cancer, side effects and altered biodistribution. The use of peptides extracted from natural products has appeared as a potential therapy. Gloriosa superba is known to contain colchicine and other alkaloids with anticancer activity. However, these peptides contained within the extracts have not been studied. This study, therefore, focuses on an investigation of anti-colon cancer activity from a partially purified protein hydrolysate of G superba rhizome.METHODS: Dried G superba rhizome was extracted using 0.5% sodium dodecyl sulfate and digested with pepsin. The protein hydrolysates with molecular weight lesser than 3kDa were collected and subjected for cell viability assay. Then, the partial purification of the protein hydrolysate was performed using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Fractions containing anticancer peptides were investigated, and their effects on apoptosis and protein expression using apoptosis test and Western blot, respectively.RESULTS: Partially purified peptides of G superba rhizome demonstrated anticolon activity in SW620 cells by inducing apoptosis through upregulation of p53 and downregulation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB).CONCLUSIONS: Consequently, G superba peptides showed high potential for further purification and development of anticolon therapeutics. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cercopithecus aethiops#Colchicaceae#Colonic Neoplasms#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Peptides#Plant Proteins#Rhizome#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Up-Regulation#Vero Cells'
b'BACKGROUND: Resveratrol, a kind of polyphenol, has the potential to activate the longevity gene in several cells, in the same manner as calorie restriction. We investigated the effect of resveratrol and \xcf\x89-3-line polyunsaturated fatty acid on surtuin 1 (SIRT1) gene expression in human monocytes (THP1) cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined the gene expression of THP1 cells using real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting analysis. Resveratol, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaeanoic acid (DHA) as n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid were added on THP1 cells. We observed the changes in the SIRT1 gene expression in those cells, under various doses of agents and in time courses. Then, we examined the interaction of glucose and mannitol on those agents\xd7\xb3 effect of the gene expression. The concentration range of glucose and mannitol was from 5-20mM, respectively.RESULTS: The SIRT1 gene expression could be defined in 24 and 48 hours both in real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis and in Western blotting. Resveratrol showed SIRT1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 0-20\xce\xbcM in both analyses. Although EPA at 10\xce\xbcM showed marked increase in SIRT1 gene expression compared to control condition in Western blotting, this phenomenon was not in dose-dependent manner. DHA did not exhibit any augmentation of SIRT1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 0-20\xce\xbcM in both analyses. We refined the dose-dependent inhibition of the SIRT1 gene expression within 20mM glucose medium. Although 20mM did not exhibit any inhibition, 10\xce\xbcM resveratrol induced the gene expression compared to control medium. Both 5 and 15mM mannitol medium did not significantly alter basic gene expression and 10\xce\xbcM resveratrol-induced gene expression.CONCLUSIONS: The present results suggest that resveratrol and EPA, but not DHA, markedly activated the SIRT1 gene expression in THP1 cells, and that high glucose medium could inhibit the basic gene expression, but not powerful resveratrol-induced gene expression, in those cells. labels: #Cell Line, Tumor#Docosahexaenoic Acids#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Eicosapentaenoic Acid#Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic#Glucose#Humans#Mannitol#Monocytes#Sirtuin 1#Stilbenes'
b'BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene (MIC) polymorphisms have been associated with many autoimmune diseases. To explore the correlation between MIC polymorphisms and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we compared the sequence of the MIC gene in Han Chinese patients with SLE from Hainan Island, China, with healthy individuals.METHODS: In this study, the MIC polymorphisms in 296 subjects (159 patients with SLE and 137 healthy volunteers) of Han ethnicity from Hainan Island were characterized. A chi-square test was performed to evaluate the differences in the allelic frequency of the MIC genes between patients with SLE and the control subjects.RESULTS: The genotyping results indicated that the frequencies of the MICA*010, MICB*014, and MICB*002 alleles were significantly higher in the control subjects than the patients with SLE. Additionally, the results also indicated that the frequency of the MICB*009N in the SLE group was significantly increased compared to that in the matched control subjects.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggested that the MICB*009N allele might be a risk factor for SLE, whereas the MICB*014, MICA*010 and MICB*002 alleles were associated with reduced incidence of SLE in the study population. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Histocompatibility Antigens Class I#Humans#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Genetic'
b'PURPOSE: Masticatory muscle pain disorders respond well to conservative therapy; however, in some patients the pain becomes refractory. Botulinum toxin type A (BoT-A) therapy has been shown to be an effective modality in the management of refractory headache disorders. Conversely, there are conflicting reports in the literature regarding the efficacy, safety, and predictors of therapeutic response to BoT-A therapy for management of refractory masticatory muscle pain.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review of patients who underwent at least 2 injection cycles of 100 U of BoT-A for refractory masticatory myalgia in the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, between May 2012 and June 2016. Information regarding demographic, diagnostic, and therapeutic characteristics was extracted and analyzed. The \xcf\x872test was used for analysis between independent and dependent variables. Forward step-wise-type logistic regression analysis was conducted to determine the predictors of outcome.RESULTS: Among 116 participants, 30.6% reported significant relief in pain for a mean period of 10.1\xc2\xa0weeks. A total of 16.4% of participants reported at least 1 adverse effect. The effectiveness of the\xc2\xa0BoT-A therapy was found to be statistically associated with the presence of muscle hypertrophy (P\xc2\xa0= .004), range of motion (P\xc2\xa0= .02), concurrent use of opioid analgesics (P\xc2\xa0= .003), and local anesthetic trigger-point injections (P\xc2\xa0= .003). Logistic regression analyses suggested that the presence of muscle hypertrophy and occurrence of adverse effects were predictors of positive outcome. On the contrary, concurrent use of opioid analgesics was found to be a predictor for no or minimal relief.CONCLUSIONS: BoT-A therapy provides significant relief for approximately one third of patients with refractory masticatory muscle pain. Therapy is associated with a mild risk of adverse effects. The presence of muscle hypertrophy, occurrence of an adverse effect, and concurrent use of opioid analgesics were found to be predictors of outcome response. labels: #Botulinum Toxins, Type A#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Male#Masticatory Muscles#Middle Aged#Myalgia#Neuromuscular Agents#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Sclerotherapy has been described as a treatment option for nonparasitic pediatric splenic cysts; however, there are limited data on its long-term effectiveness.METHODS: We performed a retrospective review and prospective follow-up imaging study of children treated for nonparasitic splenic cysts at our institution during 2006-2015. Included patients had International Classification of Disease, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis code 289.59 or 759.0 and underwent either sclerotherapy or a partial splenic operation (partial splenectomy, cyst excision, or marsupialization). Charts were reviewed for demographics, imaging, treatments, and complications. Identified patients were contacted and asked to return for splenic ultrasonography.RESULTS: Six surgical patients and 19 sclerotherapy patients were identified. Sclerotherapy patients underwent a median of four treatments with a decrease in the size of the cyst or complete ablation in 89.5% (17/19). Of the two patients who underwent unsuccessful sclerotherapy, one patient had sclerotherapy with sotradecol and ethanol for eight treatments, developed infection, and underwent total splenectomy. The other patient did not improve with sclerotherapy and underwent partial splenectomy. Nine patients (eight patients treated with sclerotherapy and one patient treated with partial splenectomy) were successfully contacted and underwent follow-up imaging at a median follow-up of 2.4\xc2\xa0y since last treatment. Of the eight patients treated with sclerotherapy, four patients remained cyst-free, three had small residual asymptomatic cysts stable in size, and one developed a recurrent small asymptomatic cyst; the patient treated with surgery had no recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Sclerotherapy appears to be an effective and durable alternative treatment for children with splenic cysts. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Cysts#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Recurrence#Retrospective Studies#Sclerotherapy#Splenectomy#Splenic Diseases#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography'
b'BACKGROUND: Energy-based devices are used in nearly every laparoscopic operation. Radiofrequency energy can transfer to nearby instruments via antenna and capacitive coupling without direct contact. Previous studies have described inadvertent energy transfer through bundled cords and nonelectrically active wires. The purpose of this study was to describe a new mechanism of stray energy transfer from the monopolar instrument through the operating surgeon to the laparoscopic telescope and propose practical measures to decrease the risk of injury.METHODS: Radiofrequency energy was delivered to a laparoscopic L-hook (monopolar "bovie"), an advanced bipolar device, and an ultrasonic device in a laparoscopic simulator. The tip of a 10-mm telescope was placed adjacent but not touching bovine liver in a standard four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy setup. Temperature increase was measured as tissue temperature from baseline nearest the tip of the telescope which was never in contact with the energy-based device after a 5-s open-air activation.RESULTS: The monopolar L-hook increased tissue temperature adjacent to the camera/telescope tip by 47\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08\xc2\xb0C from baseline (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). By having an assistant surgeon hold the camera/telescope (rather than one surgeon holding both the active electrode and the camera/telescope), temperature change was reduced to 26\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa07\xc2\xb0C (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Alternative energy devices significantly reduced temperature change in comparison to the monopolar instrument (47\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08\xc2\xb0C) for both the advanced bipolar (1.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.5\xc2\xb0C; P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and ultrasonic (0.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.3\xc2\xb0C; P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) devices.CONCLUSIONS: Stray energy transfers from the monopolar "bovie" instrument through the operating surgeon to standard electrically inactive laparoscopic instruments. Hand-to-hand coupling describes a new form of capacitive coupling where the surgeon\'s body acts as an electrical conductor to transmit energy. Strategies to reduce stray energy transfer include avoiding the same surgeon holding the active electrode and laparoscopic camera or using alternative energy devices. labels: #Animals#Burns, Electric#Cattle#Electrosurgery#Energy Transfer#Hand#Humans#Laparoscopy#Liver#Occupational Injuries#Surgeons'
b'BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to assess the rate of 30-d hospital readmissions after ambulatory laparoscopic cholecystectomy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The 2009 to 2011 State Ambulatory Surgery and Services and State Inpatient Databases from California, Florida, and New York were analyzed to evaluate the incidence of 30-d readmissions after laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed in outpatient settings. Hospital transfers and the principal diagnoses of hospital readmission were analyzed as secondary outcomes. Multilevel generalized mixed linear regression analyses with fixed and random effects were used to evaluate variables associated with increased likelihood of readmissions.RESULTS: A total of 230,745 encounters for ambulatory laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed in 890 ambulatory facilities between 2009 and 2011 in the three states were analyzed. The rate of 30-d readmission was 20.2 per 1000 discharges. The rate of direct transfers from the ambulatory surgery center to an acute care hospital was 0.6 per 1000 discharges. The most common diagnoses of readmission were surgical complications, postoperative pain, infection, and nausea or vomiting. After adjusting for comorbidities, increasing age, male sex, non-Hispanic white race/ethnicity, any nonprivate insurance type, diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, use of intraoperative cholangiography, and having the procedure performed on a weekend were significantly associated with increased odds of 30-d readmissions.CONCLUSIONS: This large-state data analysis reveals that the unplanned admission and readmission rates after laparoscopic cholecystectomy are very low. Some causes of readmission (e.g., pain, nausea, and vomiting) are modifiable by the intervention of surgeons and anesthesia providers. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Ambulatory Surgical Procedures#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The best operative strategy for necrotizing pancreatitis remains controversial. Traditional surgical necrosectomy is associated with significant morbidity; endoscopic and percutaneous strategies require repeated interventions with prolonged hospitalizations. We have developed a transgastric approach to pancreatic necrosectomy to overcome the shortcomings of the other techniques described.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with necrotizing pancreatitis treated from 2009 to 2016 at an academic center were retrospectively reviewed. Open or laparoscopic transgastric necrosectomy was performed if the area of necrosis was walled-off and in a retrogastric position on cross-sectional imaging. Study endpoints included postoperative complications and mortality.RESULTS: Forty-six patients underwent transgastric necrosectomy (nine open and 37 laparoscopic). Median (interquartile range) preoperative Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation II score was 6 (3-12). Seventy percent of patients had>30% necrosis on preoperative imaging; infected necrosis was present in 35%. Median total length of stay (LOS) was 6 (3-12) d. No patient required a second operative debridement; four patients (9%) had short-term postoperative percutaneous drainage for residual fluid collections. Median follow-up was 1\xc2\xa0y; there were no fistula or wound complications. Six patients (13%) had postoperative bleeding; five patients received treatment by image-guided embolization. There was one death in the cohort.CONCLUSIONS: Transgastric pancreatic necrosectomy allows for effective debridement with a single definitive operation. When anatomically suitable, this operative strategy offers expedited recovery and avoids long-term morbidity associated with fistulas and prolonged drainage. labels: #Adult#Aged#Debridement#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreatectomy#Pancreatitis, Acute Necrotizing#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Stomach#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Computed tomography (CT) imaging has an established role in the initial evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. What is less clear is the role of CT in guiding delayed exploration in patients initially managed nonoperatively after blunt trauma. We hypothesized that a repeat CT would accurately identify the need for an exploratory laparotomy in this patient population.MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 2005 to 2014, we reviewed all blunt abdominal trauma patients at our institution who received an admission CT scan. We identified patients who underwent repeat CT of the abdomen within 72\xc2\xa0h for the documented purpose of reevaluating potential intra-abdominal injuries. CT findings were categorized as either having a CT indication for exploration or not, allowing a sensitivity analysis.RESULTS: Of the 50 patients who met our inclusion criteria, 9 underwent surgical exploration of the abdomen and 41 did not. Admission clinical indicators such as Glasgow Coma Scale, Injury Severity Score, and vitals were similar between the operative and nonoperative groups (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05). When compared with initial CT scan, repeat scan was found to increase the sensitivity from 67% to 100%, while also improving the specificity to 86%, positive predictive value to 50%, and negative predictive value to 100%.CONCLUSIONS: Repeat CT scan of the abdomen may be useful in evaluating blunt trauma patients initially managed nonoperatively. The second CT scan increases the sensitivity of CT evaluation to 100% while also improving the specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. labels: #Abdominal Injuries#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Delayed Diagnosis#Female#Humans#Laparotomy#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Wounds, Nonpenetrating#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Rapidly resolving acute subdural hematomas (RRASDHs) have been described in case reports and case series but are still poorly understood. We hypothesized that a cohort analysis would confirm previously reported predictors of RRASDH including coagulopathy, additional intracranial hemorrhage, and low-density band on imaging. We also hypothesized that rapid resolution would be associated with improved trauma outcomes.METHODS: We reviewed all nonoperative acute subdural hematomas (ASDHs) treated at our center from 2011 to 2015. Inclusion criteria were ASDH on computed tomography (CT), admission Glasgow coma score>7, and repeat CT to evaluate ASDH change. RRASDH was defined as reduced hematoma thickness by 50% within 72\xc2\xa0h. Clinical data, CT findings, and trauma end points were analyzed for the RRASDH and nonresolving groups.RESULTS: There were 154 ASDH patients included, with 29 cases of RRASDH. The RRASDH group had a lower rate of comorbidities than the nonresolving group (58.6% versus 78.4%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03) and a lower rate of prehospital anticoagulation (7.7% versus 37.1%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.004). Previously reported predictors of RRASDH did not differ between the groups, nor did any clinical outcome measures. When compared with patients who experienced rapid growth (>50% increased width in 72\xc2\xa0h), the RRASDH group had lower mortality (3.4% versus 23.5%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.04).CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest review of RRASDHs. We identified two previously unrecognized factors that may predict resolution; however, previously reported predictors were not associated with resolution. We also found no relationship between RRASDHs and improved standard trauma outcomes, calling into question the clinical significance of RRASDH. labels: #Adult#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hematoma, Subdural, Acute#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Remission, Spontaneous#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'Metabolic health and positive symptom severity has been investigated in schizophrenia, but not in clinical high risk (CHR) patients. We hypothesized that greater body mass index (BMI) in CHR patients would be related to less positive symptoms. We examined this relationship in CHR patients being treated with 1) no psychotropic medications (n = 58), 2) an antipsychotic (n = 14), or 3) an antidepressant without an antipsychotic (n = 10). We found no relationship between BMI and positive symptoms in unmedicated CHR patients, the majority of whom had a narrow BMI range between 20 and 30. However, in the smaller sample of CHR patients taking an antidepressant or antipsychotic, BMI was negatively correlated with positive symptoms. Although potentially underpowered, these preliminary findings provide initial steps in elucidating the relationships between metabolic health, neurochemistry, and symptom severity in CHR patients. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Antidepressive Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Body Mass Index#Female#Humans#Male#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales#Psychotic Disorders#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Young Adult'
b'Self-harm refers to the purposeful destruction of bodily tissue without suicidal intention and for purposes that are not socially sanctioned. Little is known about the associations between a history of self-harm, mood symptoms, and functioning in adults with different types of mood disorders. Lifetime histories of self-harm, current mood symptoms, global functioning, and affective traits were collected on 142 adults with mood disorders. The prevalence of lifetime self-harm was higher in patients with bipolar disorder compared with patients with a unipolar depressive disorder. Self-harm was also more strongly linked to impulsivity in individuals with bipolar disorder compared with unipolar depressive disorder. Across both diagnoses, histories of self-harm were related to lower levels of current global functioning, more severe depressive symptoms, and high self-reported emotional dysregulation and neuroticism. Findings indicate that self-harm is a potent prognostic variable for symptoms, global functioning, and personality functioning in individuals with mood disorders. labels: #Adult#Affect#Bipolar Disorder#Depressive Disorder#Female#Humans#Impulsive Behavior#Male#Personality Assessment#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales#Psychological Tests#Self-Injurious Behavior#Severity of Illness Index#Social Adjustment'
b'BACKGROUND: Hantavirus, the hemorrhagic causative agent of two clinical diseases, is found worldwide with variation in severity, incidence and mortality. The most lethal hantaviruses are found on the American continent where the most prevalent viruses like Andes virus and Sin Nombre virus are known to cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. New World hantavirus infection of immunocompetent hamsters results in an asymptomatic infection except for Andes virus and Maporal virus; the only hantaviruses causing a lethal disease in immunocompetent Syrian hamsters mimicking hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in humans.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Hamsters, immunosuppressed with dexamethasone and cyclophosphamide, were infected intramuscularly with different New World hantavirus strains (Bayou virus, Black Creek Canal virus, Ca\xc3\xb1o Delgadito virus, Choclo virus, Laguna Negra virus, and Maporal virus). In the present study, we show that immunosuppression of hamsters followed by infection with a New World hantavirus results in an acute disease that precisely mimics both hantavirus disease in humans and Andes virus infection of hamsters.CONCLUSIONS/ SIGNIFICANCE: Infected hamsters showed specific clinical signs of disease and moreover, histological analysis of lung tissue showed signs of pulmonary edema and inflammation within alveolar septa. In this study, we were able to infect immunosuppressed hamsters with different New World hantaviruses reaching a lethal outcome with signs of disease mimicking human disease. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Cricetinae#Cyclophosphamide#Dexamethasone#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Hantavirus#Hantavirus Infections#Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Immunosuppression#Immunosuppressive Agents#Lung#Mesocricetus#Survival Analysis'
b"This is the first integrated study of the effects on gastric secretion, inflammation and fundic mucins after infection with L3 T. circumcincta and in the very early period following transplantation of adult worms. At 3 months-of-age, 20 Coopworth lambs were infected intraruminally with 35,000 L3; infected animals were killed on Days 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 post-infection and 6 controls on either Day 0 or 30 post-infection. Another 15 Romney cross lambs received 10,000 adult worms at 4-5 months-of-age though surgically-implanted abomasal cannulae and were killed after 6, 12, 24 and 72 hours; uninfected controls were also killed at 72 hours. Blood was collected at regular intervals from all animals for measurement of serum gastrin and pepsinogen and abomasal fluid for pH measurement from cannulated sheep. Tissues collected at necropsy were fixed in Bouin's fluid for light microscopy, immunocytochemistry and mucin staining and in Karnovsky's fluid for electron microscopy. Nodules around glands containing developing larvae were seen on Day 5 p.i., but generalised effects on secretion occurred only after parasite emergence and within hours after transplantation of adult worms. After L3 infection, there were maximum worm burdens on Days 10-15 post-infection, together with peak tissue eosinophilia, inhibition of gastric acid secretion, hypergastrinaemia, hyperpepsinogenaemia, loss of parietal cells, enlarged gastric pits containing less mucin and increased numbers of mucous neck cells. After adult transplantation, serum pepsinogen was significantly increased after 9 hours and serum gastrin after 18 hours. Parallel changes in host tissues and the numbers of parasites in the abomasal lumen suggest that luminal parasites, but not those in the tissues, are key drivers of the pathophysiology and inflammatory response in animals exposed to parasites for the first time. These results are consistent with initiation of the host response by parasite chemicals diffusing across the surface epithelium, possibly aided by components of ES products which increased permeability. Parietal cells appear to be a key target, resulting in secondary increases in serum gastrin, pit elongation, loss of surface mucins and inhibition of chief cell maturation. Inflammation occurs in parallel, and could either cause the pathology or exacerbate the direct effects of ES products. labels: #Animals#Gastric Mucins#Gastrins#Larva#Pepsinogen A#Sheep#Sheep Diseases#Stomach Diseases#Stomach, Ruminant#Trichostrongyloidea#Trichostrongyloidiasis"
b'The new-shoot-growing stage is an important period of apple tree nutrition distribution. The objective of this study is to provide technical support for apple tree nutrition diagnosis by constructing quantitative evaluation models between the apple leaf nitrogen content during the new-shoot-growing stage and characteristic spectral parameters. The correlation coefficients between the original spectral data and the nitrogen content were calculated. Then, the sensitive bands of the nitrogen content were selected using the theory of two-dimensional (2D) correlation spectroscopy. Finally, partial least squares regression (PLSR) and support vector machine (SVM) evaluation models were established using 2 parameters: Rx (maximum spectral reflectivity in the waveband) and Sx (total spectral reflectivity in the waveband). The results showed that the sensitive bands in the 2D correlation synchronous and asynchronous spectrograms were 537-560 nm and 708-719 nm. The PLSR model can be used to estimate the nitrogen content. Compared with PLSR, SVM provided better modeling and testing results, with a larger coefficient of determination (R2) and a smaller root-mean-square error (RMSE). The SVM model based on Sx was a good backup method. The calibration R2 of the model was 0.821, its RMSE was 0.710 g\xc2\xb7kg-1, the validation R2 was 0.768, and its RMSE was 1.019 g\xc2\xb7kg-1. The SVM model based on 2D correlation spectroscopy can be used to quantitatively estimate the nitrogen content in apple leaves. labels: #Biobehavioral Sciences#Malus#Nitrogen#Plant Leaves#Plant Shoots#Spectrum Analysis'
b'PURPOSE: To analyze the effect of birth weight on ocular morphology, refraction and visual function in early adolescents aged 12-15 years.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We conducted a secondary data analysis using the public use files from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey of the period from 1999 to 2008. Study participants aged 12 to 15 years were included with data on birth weight and ophthalmic parameters including presenting distance visual acuity, objective refraction and keratometry. Visual acuity, sphere, astigmatism in power vectors J0 and J45, corneal power and corneal astigmatism were evaluated for an association with birth weight. Linear and logistic regression with adjustment for age, sex, ethnicity, survey cycle and birth weight as independent variable were calculated.RESULTS: Linear regression analysis revealed an association between corneal power and birth weight (per 100g: beta = -0.04, p<0.001) in the univariate analysis, and in the model adjusted for age, sex, ethnicity and NHANES survey cycle (per 100g: beta = -0.04, p<0.001). A lower birth weight was associated with higher corneal power. We found no evidence for an association of visual acuity, sphere, spherical equivalent, J0-vector and J45-vector of astigmatism, corneal J0- or corneal J45-vector with birth weight.CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that low BW is linked to alterations in keratometric power even in early adolescents aged 12-15 years whereas visual acuity and refractive error showed no association. labels: #Adolescent#Age Factors#Astigmatism#Birth Weight#Child#Child, Preschool#Cornea#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Refraction, Ocular#Sex Factors#United States#Vision, Ocular'
b'Cellular permissiveness to HIV infection is highly heterogeneous across individuals. Heterogeneity is also found across CD4+ T cells from the same individual, where only a fraction of cells gets infected. To explore the basis of permissiveness, we performed single-cell RNA-seq analysis of non-infected CD4+ T cells from high and low permissive individuals. Transcriptional heterogeneity translated in a continuum of cell states, driven by T-cell receptor-mediated cell activation and was strongly linked to permissiveness. Proteins expressed at the cell surface and displaying the highest correlation with T cell activation were tested as biomarkers of cellular permissiveness to HIV. FACS sorting using antibodies against several biomarkers of permissiveness led to an increase of HIV cellular infection rates. Top candidate biomarkers included CD25, a canonical activation marker. The combination of CD25 high expression with other candidate biomarkers led to the identification of CD298, CD63 and CD317 as the best biomarkers for permissiveness. CD25highCD298highCD63highCD317high cell population showed an enrichment of HIV-infection of up to 28 fold as compared to the unsorted cell population. The purified hyper-permissive cell subpopulation was characterized by a downregulation of interferon-induced genes and several known restriction factors. Single-cell RNA-seq analysis coupled with functional characterization of cell biomarkers provides signatures of the "HIV-permissive cell". labels: #CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cells, Cultured#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Single-Cell Analysis#Virus Replication'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Liver steatosis has shown to be associated with coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of our study was to evaluate the association between the presence and severity of CAD and Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) assessed by transient elastography (TE) and controlled attenuation parameter (CAP).METHODS: 576 Patients undergoing coronary angiography were enrolled in this prospective study, receiving at least 10 TE and CAP measurements using the FibroScan\xc2\xae M-probe. Clinically relevant CAD (CAD 3) was defined as stenosis with \xe2\x89\xa575% reduction of the luminal diameter. NAFLD was determined by CAP \xe2\x89\xa5234 dB/m. NAFLD with advanced fibrosiswas determined by TE-values \xe2\x89\xa57.9kPa in the presence of NAFLD and absence of congestive or right-sided heart failure. Rates and 95% confidence intervals are shown.RESULTS: 505 patients were available for analysis of NAFLD. However, only 392 patients were available for analysis of NAFLD with advanced fibrosis, since 24 patients had to be excluded due to non valid TE-measurements and 89 patients due to congestive or right-sided heart failure or suspected concomitant liver disease, respectively. 70.5% (66.3%-74.4%) of patients had CAD 3, 71.5% (67.3%-75.4%) were diagnosed with NAFLD, and 11.2% (8.3%-14.8%) with NAFLD with advanced fibrosis. Patients with CAD 3 had higher median CAP-values (273\xc2\xb161 vs. 260\xc2\xb166 dB/m; p = 0.038) and higher degrees of steatosis as compared to patients without CAD 3. While NAFLD was significantly more often diagnosed in patients with CAD 3 (75.0% vs. 63.1%, p = 0.0068), no significant difference was found for NAFLD with advanced fibrosis (10.7% vs. 12.5%, p = 0.60).CONCLUSIONS: Clinically relevant CAD is frequently associated with the presence of NAFLD, but not NAFLD with advanced fibrosis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Humans#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Prospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index'
b'INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to determine the effect of combining positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy and mandibular advancement device (MAD) in patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) who were pressure intolerant for PAP and were unresponsive to MAD.METHODS: This retrospective study reviewed the medical records of severe OSA patients with apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) \xe2\x89\xa5 30/hr who were diagnosed between October 1, 2008 and June 30, 2014. Patients were initially treated with 2 weeks of PAP, and those who were intolerant to high-pressure PAP (\xe2\x89\xa515 cm H2O) were switched to 12 weeks of MAD, which is a monobloc designed at 75% of maximum protrusion. Patients who had high residual AHI (\xe2\x89\xa515/hr) on MAD underwent 12 weeks of combination therapy (CT) with MAD and CPAP and were enrolled in the present study. Enrolled subjects who completed the 12-week CT were followed-up until June 30, 2016.RESULTS: A total of 14 male patients were included. All three treatments effectively reduced AHI, oxygen desaturation index (ODI), and total sleep time with SpO2<90% (% TST-SpO2<90%) compared to pretreatment values. The residual AHI and ODI on CT was lower than that on MAD or PAP. The residual % TST-SpO2<90% was lower than that on MAD and similar to that on PAP. The therapeutic pressure on CT was on average 9.2 cm H2O lower than that on PAP. For the 11 patients who completed CT, only CT reduced ESS compared to pretreatment value. No treatment had significant impact on % slow wave sleep or overnight change of blood pressure. For patients who completed CT, the average usage was 5.9\xc2\xb11.7 hr/night at 12th week and 6.4\xc2\xb11.5 hr/night at a median follow-up of 36.5-months.CONCLUSIONS: Combining MAD and CPAP showed additive effects on reducing AHI and ODI, and lowered the therapeutic pressures. labels: #Blood Pressure#Combined Modality Therapy#Continuous Positive Airway Pressure#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mandibular Advancement#Middle Aged#Patient Compliance#Retrospective Studies#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Failure'
b"Human pegivirus (HPgV) protects HIV+ people from HIV-associated disease, but the mechanism of this protective effect remains poorly understood. We sequentially infected cynomolgus macaques with simian pegivirus (SPgV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) to model HIV+HPgV co-infection. SPgV had no effect on acute-phase SIV pathogenesis-as measured by SIV viral load, CD4+ T cell destruction, immune activation, or adaptive immune responses-suggesting that HPgV's protective effect is exerted primarily during the chronic phase of HIV infection. We also examined the immune response to SPgV in unprecedented detail, and found that this virus elicits virtually no activation of the immune system despite persistently high titers in the blood over long periods of time. Overall, this study expands our understanding of the pegiviruses-an understudied group of viruses with a high prevalence in the global human population-and suggests that the protective effect observed in HIV+HPgV co-infected people occurs primarily during the chronic phase of HIV infection. labels: #Animals#Coinfection#Disease Models, Animal#Flaviviridae Infections#GB virus C#Macaca fascicularis#Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome#Simian Immunodeficiency Virus"
b'BACKGROUND: We assessed whether a short training, effective in a high resource country, was able to improve the quality of face-mask ventilation (FMV) in a low resource setting.METHODS: Local healthcare providers at the Centre M\xc3\xa9dico-Social, Kouv\xc3\xa8, Togo were asked to ventilate a neonatal leak-free manikin before (time-t1) and after (t2) a two-minute training session. Immediately after this section, a further two-minute training with participants aware of the data monitor was offered. Finally, a third 1-minute FMV round (t3) was performed by each participant. Ventilatory parameters were recorded using a computerized system. Primary outcome was the percentage of breaths with relevant mask leak (>25%). Secondary outcomes were percentages of breaths with a low peak inspiratory pressure (PIP<20 cm H2O), within the recommended PIP (20-35 cm H2O) and with a high PIP (>35 cm H2O).RESULTS: Twenty-six subjects participated in the study. The percentage of relevant mask leak significantly decreased (p<0.0001; \xce\xb2 = -0.76, SE = 0.10) from 89.7% (SD 21.5%) at t1 to 45.4% (SD 27.2%) at t2 and to 18.3% (SD 20.1%) at t3. The percentage of breaths within the recommended PIP significantly increased (p<0.0001; \xce\xb2 = +0.54, SE = 0.12). The percentage of breaths with PIP>35 cm H2O was 19.5% (SD 32.8%) at t1 and 39.2% (SD 37.7%) at t2 (padj = 0.27; \xce\xb2 = +0.61, SE = 0.36) and significantly decreased (padj = 0.01; \xce\xb2 = -1.61, SE = 0.55) to 6.0% (SD 15.4%) at t3.CONCLUSIONS: A 2-minute training on FMV, effective in a high resource country, had a positive effect also in a low resource setting. FMV performance further improved after an extra 2-minute verbal recall plus real time feedback. Although the training was extended, it still does not cost much time and effort. Further studies are needed to establish if these basic skills are transferred in real patients and if they are maintained over time. labels: #Adult#Education, Medical, Continuing#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Personnel, Hospital#Respiration, Artificial#Togo'
b'Fusarium fujikuroi causes bakanae ("foolish seedling") disease of rice which is characterized by hyper-elongation of seedlings resulting from production of gibberellic acids (GAs) by the fungus. This plant pathogen is also known for production of harmful mycotoxins, such as fusarins, fusaric acid, apicidin F and beauvericin. Recently, we generated the first de novo genome sequence of F. fujikuroi strain IMI 58289 combined with extensive transcriptional, epigenetic, proteomic and chemical product analyses. GA production was shown to provide a selective advantage during infection of the preferred host plant rice. Here, we provide genome sequences of eight additional F. fujikuroi isolates from distant geographic regions. The isolates differ in the size of chromosomes, most likely due to variability of subtelomeric regions, the type of asexual spores (microconidia and/or macroconidia), and the number and expression of secondary metabolite gene clusters. Whilst most of the isolates caused the typical bakanae symptoms, one isolate, B14, caused stunting and early withering of infected seedlings. In contrast to the other isolates, B14 produced no GAs but high amounts of fumonisins during infection on rice. Furthermore, it differed from the other isolates by the presence of three additional polyketide synthase (PKS) genes (PKS40, PKS43, PKS51) and the absence of the F. fujikuroi-specific apicidin F (NRPS31) gene cluster. Analysis of additional field isolates confirmed the strong correlation between the pathotype (bakanae or stunting/withering), and the ability to produce either GAs or fumonisins. Deletion of the fumonisin and fusaric acid-specific PKS genes in B14 reduced the stunting/withering symptoms, whereas deletion of the PKS51 gene resulted in elevated symptom development. Phylogenetic analyses revealed two subclades of F. fujikuroi strains according to their pathotype and secondary metabolite profiles. labels: #Fungal Proteins#Fusariosis#Fusarium#Genes, Fungal#Oryza#Phylogeny#Plant Diseases#Virulence'
b'Alpha herpesvirus genomes encode the capacity to establish quiescent infections (i.e. latency) in the peripheral nervous system for the life of their hosts. Multiple times during latency, viral genomes can reactivate to start a productive infection, enabling spread of progeny virions to other hosts. Replication of alpha herpesviruses is well studied in cultured cells and many aspects of productive replication have been identified. However, many questions remain concerning how a productive or a quiescent infection is established. While infections in vivo often result in latency, infections of dissociated neuronal cultures in vitro result in a productive infection unless lytic viral replication is suppressed by DNA polymerase inhibitors or interferon. Using primary peripheral nervous system neurons cultured in modified Campenot tri-chambers, we previously reported that reactivateable, quiescent infections by pseudorabies virus (PRV) can be established in the absence of any inhibitor. Such infections were established in cell bodies only when physically isolated axons were infected at a very low multiplicity of infection (MOI). In this report, we developed a complementation assay in compartmented neuronal cultures to investigate host and viral factors in cell bodies that prevent establishment of quiescent infection and promote productive replication of axonally delivered genomes (i.e. escape from silencing). Stimulating protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathways in isolated cell bodies, or superinfecting cell bodies with either UV-inactivated PRV or viral light particles (LP) promoted escape from genome silencing and prevented establishment of quiescent infection but with different molecular mechanisms. Activation of PKA in cell bodies triggers a slow escape from silencing in a cJun N-terminal kinase (JNK) dependent manner. However, escape from silencing is induced rapidly by infection with UVPRV or LP in a PKA- and JNK-independent manner. We suggest that viral tegument proteins delivered to cell bodies engage multiple signaling pathways that block silencing of viral genomes delivered by low MOI axonal infection. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Gene Expression Regulation, Viral#Gene Silencing#Genome, Viral#Herpesvirus 1, Human#Herpesvirus 1, Suid#Neurons#Swine#Viral Proteins#Virus Latency#Virus Replication'
b'This study compared the effects of two levels of performance stabilization on the adaptation to unpredictable perturbations in an isometric control force task with the goal of controlling 40% of the maximum force. The experiment consisted of pre-exposure and exposure phases. In the pre-exposure two levels of performance stabilization were manipulated: a stabilization group (SG) performed three trials in a row while maintaining 40% of the maximum force for three seconds and an absolute error less than or equal to 5% (i.e., the criteria of performance), and a superstabilization group (SSG) performed six blocks of the same criteria. During the exposure phase, the task was the same as that in the pre-exposure phase; however, it was inserted 9 trials of perturbations when the task goal changed to 60% of the maximum force. We measured the %RMSE, RMS from the biceps and triceps brachii and co-contraction. In the pre-exposure phase, both groups showed similar performance and muscle activity. When exposed to the perturbations, SSG performance more quickly returned to the previous level of accuracy, showed lower muscle activation and demonstrated a greater muscle co-contraction than did SG. The results give support to the adaptive process model on motor learning. labels: #Adult#Electromyography#Humans#Isometric Contraction#Male#Motor Skills#Muscle, Skeletal#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Intramuscular fat (IMF) is known to enhance beef palatability and can be markedly increased by castration. However, there is little understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying the IMF deposition after castration of beef cattle. We hypothesize that genetic regulators function differently in IMF from bulls and steers. Therefore, after detecting serum testosterone and lipid parameter, as well as the contents of IMF at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, we have investigated differentially expressed (DE) microRNAs (miRNAs) and mRNAs in IMF of bulls and steers at 24 months of age in Qinchuan cattle using next-generation sequencing, and then explored the possible biopathways regulating IMF deposition. Serum testosterone levels were significantly decreased in steers, whereas IMF content, serum total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglycerides (TGs) were markedly increased in steers. Comparing the results of steers and bulls, 580 upregulated genes and 1,120 downregulated genes in IMF tissues were identified as DE genes correlated with IMF deposition. The upregulated genes were mainly associated with lipid metabolism, lipogenesis and fatty acid transportation signalling pathways, and the downregulated genes were correlated with immune response and intracellular signal transduction. Concurrently, the DE miRNAs-important players in adipose tissue accumulation induced by castration-were also examined in IMF tissues; 52 DE miRNAs were identified. The expression profiles of selected genes and miRNAs were also confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) assays. Using integrated analysis, we constructed the microRNA-target regulatory network which was supported by target validation using the dual luciferase reporter system. Moreover, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software was used to construct a molecular interaction network that could be involved in regulating IMF after castration. The detected molecular network is closely associated with lipid metabolism and adipocyte differentiation, which is supported by functional identification results of bta-let-7i on bovine preadipocytes. These results provided valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of the IMF phenotype differences between steers and bulls. labels: #Adipose Tissue#Animals#Cattle#China#Cholesterol#Male#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#RNA, Messenger#Testosterone#Transcriptome#Triglycerides'
b'The influence of thrombosis on the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after liver transplantation (LT) and the role of the commonest inherited thrombophilia abnormalities factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A in the development of thrombosis are unknown. We investigated a cohort of patients who underwent LT for HCC with the aim to estimate the incidence rate (IR) of thrombosis, its influence on mortality and re-transplantation rates and, in the frame of a nested case-control study, the role of thrombophilia in donors and recipients for the development of thrombosis. Four-hundred and thirty patients underwent LT and were followed for a median of 7.2 years. Twenty-six recipients (6%) developed thrombosis (IR 1.06 [95%CI: 0.71-1.53] per 100 pts-yr). Mortality rate after LT was 3.95 (95%CI: 3.22-4.79) per 100 pts-yr and was not influenced by thrombosis. Re-transplantation was planned for 33 patients and was more common in patients with thrombosis than in those without (HR 2.50 [95%CI: 0.87-7.17]). The risk of thrombosis was 4 times higher in recipients with thrombophilia than in those without (OR 4.23 [95%CI: 0.99-18.04]) and 6 times higher when the analysis was restricted to venous thrombosis (OR 6.26 [95%CI: 1.19-32.85]). The presence of inherited thrombophilia in the donors did not increase the risk of thrombosis of the recipient. In conclusion, thrombosis is a complication of 6% of patients transplanted for HCC and increases the risk of re-transplantation but not of mortality. The risk of thrombosis, particularly venous, is increased in the presence of thrombophilia abnormalities in the recipients. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Survival Rate#Thrombophilia#Thrombosis'
b'Pathogenic or non-pathogenic small (17 to 30 nt) and long (>200 nt) non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) have been implicated in the regulation of gene expression at transcriptional, post-transcriptional and epigenetic level by interacting with host proteins. However, lack of suitable experimental system precludes the identification and evaluation of the functional significance of host proteins interacting with ncRNAs. In this study, we present a first report on the application of riboproteomics to identify host proteins interacting with small, highly pathogenic, noncoding satellite RNA (sat-RNA) associated with Cucumber mosaic virus, the helper virus (HV). RNA affinity beads containing sat-RNA transcripts of (+) or (-)-sense covalently coupled to cyanogen bromide activated sepharose beads were incubated with total protein extracts from either healthy or HV-infected Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. RNA-protein complexes bound to the beads were eluted and subjected to MudPIT analysis. Bioinformatics programs PANTHER classification and WoLF-PSORT were used to further classify the identified host proteins in each case based on their functionality and subcellular distribution. Finally, we observed that the host protein network interacting with plus and minus-strand transcripts of sat-RNA, in the presence or absence of HV is distinct, and the global interactome of host proteins interacting with satRNA in either of the orientations is very different. labels: #Cucumovirus#Helper Viruses#Plant Proteins#Proteomics#RNA, Untranslated#RNA, Viral#Tobacco'
b"5'-Phosphodiesterase (5'-PDE) catalyzes the hydrolysis of ribonucleic acid to obtain a mixture of ribonucleotides, such as 5'-guanosine monophosphate and 5'-adenosine monophosphate. In this study, a 5'-PDE was newly isolated and purified from Aspergillus fumigatus. Following purification, this enzyme exhibited a specific activity of 1036.76 U/mg protein, a molecular weight of 9.5 kDa, and an optimal temperature and pH for enzyme activity of 60\xc2\xb0C and 5.0, respectively. However, its activity was partially inhibited by Fe3+, Cu2+, and Zn2+, but slightly improved by the presence of K+ and Na+. Additionally, chemical-modification experiments were also applied to investigate the structural information of 5'-PDE, in which the residues containing carboxyl and imidazole groups were essential for enzyme activity based on their localization in the 5'-PDE active site. Furthermore, purified 5'-PDE could specifically catalyze the synthesis of ribonucleotides with a Vmax 0.71 mmol/mg\xc2\xb7min and a KM of 13.60 mg/mL. labels: #Aspergillus fumigatus#Catalysis#Hydrolysis#Molecular Weight#Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases#Protein Conformation"
b'Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is the oldest model object of plant genetics and one of the most agriculturally important legumes in the world. Since the pea genome has not been sequenced yet, identification of genes responsible for mutant phenotypes or desirable agricultural traits is usually performed via genetic mapping followed by candidate gene search. Such mapping is best carried out using gene-based molecular markers, as it opens the possibility for exploiting genome synteny between pea and its close relative Medicago truncatula Gaertn., possessing sequenced and annotated genome. In the last 5 years, a large number of pea gene-based molecular markers have been designed and mapped owing to the rapid evolution of "next-generation sequencing" technologies. However, the access to the complete set of markers designed worldwide is limited because the data are not uniformed and therefore hard to use. The Pea Marker Database was designed to combine the information about pea markers in a form of user-friendly and practical online tool. Version 1 (PMD1) comprises information about 2484 genic markers, including their locations in linkage groups, the sequences of corresponding pea transcripts and the names of related genes in M. truncatula. Version 2 (PMD2) is an updated version comprising 15944 pea markers in the same format with several advanced features. To test the performance of the PMD, fine mapping of pea symbiotic genes Sym13 and Sym27 in linkage groups VII and V, respectively, was carried out. The results of mapping allowed us to propose the Sen1 gene (a homologue of SEN1 gene of Lotus japonicus (Regel) K. Larsen) as the best candidate gene for Sym13, and to narrow the list of possible candidate genes for Sym27 to ten, thus proving PMD to be useful for pea gene mapping and cloning. All information contained in PMD1 and PMD2 is available at www.peamarker.arriam.ru. labels: #Databases, Genetic#Genetic Linkage#Genetic Markers#Genome, Plant#Internet#Loteae#Medicago truncatula#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Peas#Software'
b"AIM: To investigate how quality and patient safety domains are being taught in the pre-registration curricula of health profession education programmes in New Zealand.METHODS: All tertiary institutions providing training for medicine, nursing, midwifery, dentistry, pharmacy, physiotherapy, dietetics and 11 other allied health professions in New Zealand were contacted and a person with relevant curriculum knowledge was invited to participate. Interviews were conducted using a semi-structured interview guide to explore nine quality and safety domains; improvement science, patient safety, quality and safety culture, evidence-based practice, patient-centred care, teamwork and communication, leadership for change, systems thinking and use of information technology (IT). Transcribed data were extracted and categorised by discipline and domain. Two researchers independently identified and categorised themes within each domain, using a general inductive approach.RESULTS: Forty-nine institutions were contacted and 43 (88%) people were interviewed. The inclusion and extent of quality and safety teaching was variable. Evidence-based practice, patient-centred care and teamwork and communication were the strongest domains and well embedded in programmes, while leadership, systems thinking and the role of IT were less explicitly included. Except for two institutions, improvement science was absent from pre-registration curricula. Patient safety teaching was focused mainly around incident reporting, and to a lesser extent learning from adverse events. Although a 'no blame' culture was articulated as important, the theme of individual accountability was still apparent. While participants agreed that all domains were important, the main barriers to incorporating improvement science and patient safety concepts into existing programmes included an 'already stretched curriculum' and having faculty with limited expertise in these areas.CONCLUSIONS: Although the building blocks for improving the quality and safety of healthcare are present, this national study of multiple health professional pre-registration education programmes has identified teaching gaps in patient safety and improvement science methods and tools. Failure to address these gaps will compromise the ability of new graduates to successfully implement and sustain improvements. labels: #Communication#Curriculum#Evidence-Based Practice#Health Personnel#Humans#Leadership#Medical Informatics#New Zealand#Organizational Culture#Patient Care Team#Patient Safety#Patient-Centered Care#Qualitative Research#Quality Improvement#Systems Analysis"
b'AIM: To determine the outcome of patients waitlisted for hip and knee replacement surgery who were returned to GP due to resource constraints.METHODS: Prospectively gathered data of all patients returned to GP was analysed, including demographics, clinical prioritisation scores and patient-reported scores. Subsequent outcome was collected from departmental records and the National Joint Registry.RESULTS: Between November 2013 and December 2015, 374 patients were returned to GP care. At minimum 12-month follow-up, 215 (57.5%) had undergone or had certainty for surgery, 36 patients (9.6%) had been re-referred and again declined surgery and 123 (32.9%) remained in GP care. The factors influencing the likelihood of a patient subsequently qualifying for surgery were need for hip rather than knee replacement, time from initial FSA and initial NZOA score. The mean waiting time for those patients who underwent publicly-funded surgery was 14.7 months.CONCLUSION: Returning patients to GP delays treatment rather than reducing the need for surgery. This delay results in waste, added costs to the patient, healthcare system and society, and may reduce the benefit of surgery. There needs to be a significant increase in capacity to meet this demand. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Female#General Practice#Humans#Male#New Zealand#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Public Sector#Referral and Consultation#Waiting Lists'
b'AIMS: New Zealand follows the guideline that only patients with projected five-year survival of 80% are listed for deceased donor kidney transplantation. An algorithm derived from US data estimates survival after transplantation, however, this may not be as applicable to the New Zealand population. We review use of the US derived algorithm in New Zealand. We assessed accuracy of scores calculated by referring units and audited whether the system is applied in New Zealand.METHODS: Data on 422 patients assessed for transplantation was entered into the algorithm to calculate a projected survival score. Scores were generated by an independent investigator and compared with those calculated by local units. Scores and demographics of listed and not-listed patients were also compared.RESULTS: Three hundred and twenty-five of 420 (77%) patients assessed were accepted onto the New Zealand transplant list. Mean estimated five-year survival in listed patients was 89.4% compared to 79.8% in those not accepted (p<0.0001). Listed patients were younger and less likely to have coronary artery disease (CAD). There was no significant difference in scores calculated by the independent assessor and referring centres (p=0.185).CONCLUSION: The algorithm is universally and accurately used. Future studies are required to determine the validity of the system in New Zealand patients. labels: #Algorithms#Cadaver#Eligibility Determination#Female#Humans#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Medical Audit#Middle Aged#New Zealand#Risk Assessment#Tissue Donors'
b'AIMS: New Zealand has one of the highest rates of breast cancer incidence in the world. We investigated the gene expression profiles of breast tumours from New Zealand patients, compared them to gene expression profiles of international breast cancer cohorts and identified any associations between altered gene expression and the clinicopathological features of the tumours.METHODS: Affymetrix microarrays were used to measure the gene expression profiles of 106 breast tumours from New Zealand patients. Gene expression data from six international breast cancer cohorts were collated, and all the gene expression data were analysed using standard bioinformatic and statistical tools.RESULTS: Gene expression profiles associated with tumour ER and ERBB2 status, molecular subtype and selected gene expression signatures within the New Zealand cohort were consistent with those found in international cohorts. Significant differences in clinicopathological features such as tumour grade, tumour size and lymph node status were also observed between the New Zealand and international cohorts.CONCLUSIONS: Gene expression profiles, which are a sensitive indicator of tumour biology, showed no clear difference between breast tumours from New Zealand patients and those from non-New Zealand patients. This suggests that other factors may contribute to the high and increasing breast cancer incidence in New Zealand compared to international populations. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Breast Neoplasms#Female#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Incidence#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#New Zealand#RNA, Messenger#Receptors, Estrogen#Tissue Array Analysis'
b'AIMS: To determine whether or not cardiomegaly identified on chest radiograph (CXR) is indicative of true cardiomegaly as determined using echocardiography (echo) as the gold standard tool, and therefore whether or not cardiomegaly on CXR should be investigated further.METHODS: CXR and echocardiogram reports were reviewed for the presence of cardiomegaly in a population following non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). Data was evaluated to determine whether cardiomegaly reported on CXR did indeed represent true cardiomegaly. Exploratory analysis was undertaken to determine whether or not Body Surface Area (BSA) was a significant explanatory variable.RESULTS: Data was collected for 244 patients. Thirty-nine were reported to have cardiomegaly on CXR, 22 of those also had cardiomegaly on echo, giving a true positive rate of 56% and a false positive rate of 44%. Fifty-five were reported to have cardiomegaly on echo, of which 33 (60%) did not have cardiomegaly identified on CXR. Sensitivity of CXR to identify cardiomegaly was 40% and specificity was 91% with a positive predictive value of 56% and negative predictive value of 84%. BSA does not appear to be a significant explanatory variable for the discrepancy between the CXR and echo estimates of cardiomegaly.CONCLUSIONS: In patients following an NSTEMI, the true positive rate of cardiomegaly identified on CXR is not too dissimilar to the false positive rate, thereby suggesting that reporting "cardiomegaly" based on CXR findings is inaccurate and rather reporting should simply focus on the cardiothoracic ratio and defining this as an enlarged cardiac silhouette rather than true cardiomegaly. In clinical practice the data indicates that the number needed to investigate to identify true cardiomegaly on echo is only two, thereby concluding that all patients post-NSTEMI with cardiomegaly on CXR should go on to have an echo, consistent with current national guidelines. As the study population were all post-MI, further study is necessary to evaluate whether this association holds true in a wider population. labels: #Aged#Cardiomegaly#Cross-Sectional Studies#Echocardiography#Female#Humans#Male#Non-ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction#Radiography, Thoracic'
b'Demand for health data for secondary research is increasing, both in New Zealand and worldwide. The New Zealand government has established a large research database, the Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI), which facilitates research, and an independent ministerial advisory group, the Data Futures Partnership (DFP), to engage with citizens, the private sector and non-government organisations (NGOs) to facilitate trusted data use and strengthen the data ecosystem in New Zealand. We commend these steps but argue that key strategies for effective health-data governance remain absent in New Zealand. In particular, we argue in favour of the establishment of: (1) a specialist Health and Disability Ethics Committee (HDEC) to review applications for secondary-use data research; (2) a public registry of approved secondary-use research projects (similar to a clinical trials registry); and (3) detailed guidelines for the review and approval of secondary-use data research. We present an ethical framework based on the values of public interest, trust and transparency to justify these innovations. labels: #Biomedical Research#Datasets as Topic#Ethics Committees#Guidelines as Topic#Humans#New Zealand#Registries'
b'Background: Nontraumatic knee pain (NTKP) is highly prevalent in adults 65 years of age and older. Evidence-based guidelines recommend early use of rehabilitation; however, there is limited information comparing differences in health care utilization when rehabilitation is included in the management of NTKP.Objectives: To describe the overall health care utilization associated with the management of NTKP; estimate the proportion of people who receive outpatient rehabilitation services; and evaluate the timing of outpatient rehabilitation and its association with other health care utilization.Design: Rretrospective cohort study was conducted using a random 10% sample of 2009-2010 Medicare claims. The sample included 52,504 beneficiaries presenting within the ambulatory setting for management of NTKP.Methods: Exposure to outpatient rehabilitative services following the NTKP index ambulatory visit was defined as 1) no rehabilitation; 2) early rehabilitation (1-15 days); 3) intermediate rehabilitation (16-120 days); and 4) late rehabilitation (>120 days). Logistic regression models were fit to analyze the association of rehabilitation timing with narcotic analgesic use, utilization of nonsurgical invasive procedure, and knee surgery during a 12-month follow-up period.Results: Only 11.1% of beneficiaries were exposed to outpatient rehabilitation services. The likelihood of using narcotics, nonsurgical invasive procedures, or surgery was significantly less (adjusted odds ratios; 0.67, 0.50, 0.58, respectively) for those who received early rehabilitation when compared to no rehabilitation. The exposure-outcome relationships were reversed in the intermediate and late rehabilitation cohorts.Limitations: This was an observational study, and residual confounding could affect the observed relationships. Therefore, definitive conclusions regarding the causal effect of rehabilitation exposure and reduced utilization of more aggressive interventions cannot be determined at this time.Conclusions: Early referral for outpatient rehabilitation may reduce the utilization of health services that carry greater risks or costs in those with NTKP. labels: #Aged#Ambulatory Care#Female#Humans#Knee Injuries#Male#Medicare#Pain#Retrospective Studies#United States'
b'Sleep disturbance is a common problem following concussion. A retrospective chart review was conducted at a regional concussion clinic on patients 13 to 18 years of age between 2005 and 2011. Statistical analysis evaluated sleep disturbance and duration of concussion, as well as the use and effectiveness of melatonin. A total of 417 patients met inclusion criteria. One hundred twenty-three (34%) reported disturbance in sleep. There was no difference in sleep disturbance based on age, gender, or past number of concussions. Sleep disturbance was associated with a 3- to 4-fold increase in recovery time. Non-sport-related concussions were more likely to be associated with sleep disturbance compared to sport-related concussions (45% vs 29%, P = .01). Melatonin improved sleep disturbance in 67% of the patients. Evaluating sleep disorders following concussion is an important part of the assessment. These findings will help clinicians provide anticipatory guidance and treatment for adolescents recovering from concussion. labels: #Adolescent#Brain Concussion#Central Nervous System Depressants#Female#Humans#Male#Melatonin#Recovery of Function#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sleep Wake Disorders#Time#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Hypoparathyroidism, sensorineural hearing loss, and renal disease (HDR) syndrome, also known as Barakat syndrome, is a rare genetic disorder with high phenotypic heterogeneity caused by haploinsufficiency of the GATA3 gene on chromosome 10p14-p15. For these reasons, the diagnosis of HDR syndrome is challenging and requires a high index of suspicion as well as genetic analysis.CASE PRESENTATION: A 14-month-old boy, with sensorineural hearing loss in both ears, showed typical radiological features of X-linked stapes gusher on preoperative temporal bone computed tomography (CT) for cochlear implantations. Then after his discharge from hospital, he suffered a hypocalcemic seizure and we discovered a renal cyst during investigation of hypocalcemia. He was finally diagnosed with HDR syndrome by clinical findings, which were confirmed by molecular genetic testing. Direct sequencing of the GATA3 gene showed a heterozygous 2-bp deletion (c.1201_1202delAT), which is predicted to cause a frameshift of the reading frame (p.Met401Valfs*106).CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first case of HDR syndrome with a novel de novo variant mimicking a congenital X-linked stapes gusher syndrome. Novel mutations and the diversity of clinical manifestations expand the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of HDR syndrome. Diagnosis of HDR syndrome is still challenging, but clinicians should consider it in their differential diagnosis for children with a wide range of clinical manifestations including hypocalcemia induced seizures and deafness. We hope that this case will contribute to further understanding and studies of HDR-associated GATA3 mutations. labels: #Chromosomes, Human, Pair 10#Cochlear Implantation#Diagnosis, Differential#Frameshift Mutation#GATA3 Transcription Factor#Gene Expression#Genetic Diseases, X-Linked#Haploinsufficiency#Hearing Loss, Conductive#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Heterozygote#Humans#Hypoparathyroidism#Infant#Male#Nephrosis#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Subjects undergoing coronary stenting with complex lesion anatomy may experience different risks and benefits with prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy.OBJECTIVES: The authors assessed the effect of 30\xc2\xa0months versus 12\xc2\xa0months of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) based on the presence or absence of anatomically-complex target lesions.METHODS: In the DAPT Study, combined myocardial infarction (MI) or stent thrombosis and moderate/severe bleeding were assessed in enrolled (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa025,416) and randomized (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa011,554) subjects. Complex lesions had any of the following characteristics: unprotected left main,>2 lesions/vessel, length\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa530\xc2\xa0mm, bifurcation with side branch\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa52.5\xc2\xa0mm, vein bypass graft, or thrombus-containing lesion. Events were evaluated according to increasing number of complexity characteristics and compared according to DAPT score.RESULTS: Enrolled subjects with more complex target lesions had higher rates of MI or stent thrombosis in the first 12\xc2\xa0months after PCI (3.9% vs. 2.4%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001). Among those who were event-free at 12\xc2\xa0months, rates of MI or stent thrombosis between 12 and 30\xc2\xa0months were similar between those with versus without complex anatomy (3.5% vs. 2.9%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.07). Reduction of MI or stent thrombosis with continued thienopyridine beyond 12\xc2\xa0months versus placebo was similar for subjects with (2.5% vs. 4.5%; hazard ratio: 0.55; 95% confidence interval: 0.38 to 0.79; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001) and without (2.0% vs. 3.8%; hazard ratio: 0.52; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.69; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) anatomic complexity (pinteraction\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.81), as was increase in moderate/severe bleeding (pinteraction\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.44). Among subjects with anatomic complexity, those with DAPT scores\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa52 randomized to continued thienopyridine had greater reductions in MI or stent thrombosis (3.0% vs. 6.1%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) compared with subjects with scores\xc2\xa0<2 (1.7% vs. 2.3%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.42; p value comparing risk differences\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03).CONCLUSIONS: Complex target-lesion anatomy is associated with increased ischemic events, particularly within the first year after PCI. Among those without events in the first 12\xc2\xa0months, the benefits of extending DAPT were similar in subjects with and without complex lesions. A high DAPT score identified those experiencing the most benefit from extended treatment among patients with and without complex anatomy. (The Dual Antiplatelet Therapy Study [DAPT Study]; NCT00977938). labels: #Aged#Aspirin#Coronary Artery Disease#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug-Eluting Stents#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hemorrhage#Humans#Internationality#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Percutaneous Coronary Intervention#Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors#Pyridines#Ticlopidine#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: There is a paucity of data on the association between high-sensitivity cardiac troponin (hs-cTn) levels and outcomes in patients with chest pain but no myocardial infarction (MI), or any other condition that may lead to acutely elevated troponin levels.OBJECTIVES: The authors hypothesized that any detectable high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (hs-cTnT) level is associated with adverse outcomes.METHODS: All patients (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa022,589)>25 years of age with chest pain and hs-cTnT analyzed concurrently in the\xc2\xa0emergency department of Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden from 2011 to 2014 were eligible for inclusion. After excluding all patients with acute conditions that may have affected hs-cTnT, or MI associated with the\xc2\xa0visit, or insufficient information to determine whether troponin levels were stable, Cox regression was used to estimate risks for all-cause, cardiovascular, and noncardiovascular mortality, MI, and heart failure at different levels of troponins.RESULTS: A total of 19,460 patients with a mean age of 54 \xc2\xb1 17 years were included. During a mean follow-up of 3.3\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.2 years, 1,349 (6.9%) patients died. Adjusted hazard ratios (with 95% confidence intervals) for all-cause mortality were 2.00 (1.66 to 2.42), 2.92 (2.38 to 3.59), 4.07 (3.28 to 5.05), 6.77 (5.22 to 8.78), and 9.68 (7.18 to 13.00) in patients\xc2\xa0with hs-cTnT levels of 5 to 9, 10 to 14, 15 to 29, 30 to 49, and\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa550\xc2\xa0ng/l, respectively, compared with patients with hs-cTnT levels\xc2\xa0<5\xc2\xa0ng/l. There was a strong and graded association between all detectable levels of hs-cTnT and risk\xc2\xa0for MI, heart failure, and cardiovascular and noncardiovascular mortality.CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with chest pain and stable troponin levels, any detectable level of hs-cTnT is associated with an increased risk of death and cardiovascular outcomes and should merit further attention. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Biomarkers#Cardiovascular Diseases#Chest Pain#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Sweden#Treatment Outcome#Troponin T#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Before the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), cardiac mortality and morbidity were common in HIV-infected children.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to identify long-term cardiovascular effects of HAART in HIV-infected children.METHODS: The CHAART-2 (HAART-Associated Cardiotoxicity in HIV-Infected Children) study prospectively compared 148 echocardiograms from 74 HAART-exposed children to 860 echocardiograms from 140 HAART-unexposed but HIV-infected children from the Pulmonary and Cardiac Complications of Vertically Transmitted HIV Infection (P2C2HIV) study. Both studies used similar protocol, centralized echocardiographic interpretation, and measures expressed as z-scores referenced to healthy controls. Associations between HAART exposure and echocardiographic measures were\xc2\xa0evaluated using generalized estimating equations.RESULTS: Comparing the HAART-exposed and HAART-unexposed groups, any HAART exposure was positively associated with left ventricular (LV) fractional shortening (z-score for difference\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.07; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.02) and HAART exposure duration (z-score difference per year\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.17; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.003. LV mass was negatively associated with any HAART exposure\xc2\xa0(z-score difference =\xc2\xa0-0.64; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.01) as was septal thickness (z-score difference =\xc2\xa0-0.93; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). Duration of HAART exposure was negatively associated with LV end-systolic dimension and heart rate (z-score difference per year=\xc2\xa0-0.11; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.05; and z-score difference per year =\xc2\xa0-0.10; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002, respectively). During 11 years of follow-up, in the HAART-exposed group, LV mass and LV end-diastolic septal thickness were lower whereas LV contractility and LV\xc2\xa0fractional shortening were higher when compared to the HAART-unexposed group.CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac structure and function were better in perinatally HIV-infected children exposed to HAART than\xc2\xa0in those of similar children from the pre-HAART era but did decline over time. Evidence-based strategies for cardiovascular monitoring are needed to inform treatment decisions to improve long-term cardiovascular health. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active#Cardiotoxins#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#HIV Infections#Humans#Hypertrophy, Left Ventricular#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Perinatal Care#Pregnancy#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Ventricular Dysfunction, Left'
b'BACKGROUND: Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has long served as the standard of care for short-term mechanical circulatory support in pediatrics. It is unknown whether newer-generation temporary circulatory support (TCS) devices afford children a meaningful survival advantage over ECMO.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine whether bridge-to-heart transplant survival with a TCS device is superior to ECMO after adjusting for patient differences.METHODS: All children\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa421 years of age listed for heart transplant from 2011 to 2015 who received a TCS device or\xc2\xa0ECMO as a bridge to transplant were identified using Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network data. Children supported with a TCS device were compared with a propensity score (PS)-matched cohort of children\xc2\xa0supported with ECMO as a bridge to transplant. The primary endpoint was Kaplan-Meier survival to transplant.RESULTS: The number of TCS devices implanted in children increased from\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa43 per year before 2011 to 50 in 2015. Overall, 93 patients implanted with TCS devices were included for analysis (59% left ventricular assist devices, 23% right ventricular assist devices, 18% biventricular assist devices). The most commonly used device was the CentriMag-PediMag system (65%), followed by TandemHeart (18%), Rotaflow (6%), and Impella (5%). Among 164 PS-matched patients, support duration was longer for the TCS cohort (median 19\xc2\xa0days vs. 6\xc2\xa0days; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), and was longest for the CentriMag-PediMag (24\xc2\xa0days vs. 6\xc2\xa0days; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) with 27% supported for>60\xc2\xa0days. Compared with the ECMO cohort, the PS-matched TCS cohort had longer survival to transplant (hazard ratio: 0.49; 95% confidence interval: 0.30 to 0.79) and longer overall survival (hazard ratio: 0.61; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.96), with 90-day mortality before transplant that was modestly reduced (from 45% with\xc2\xa0ECMO to 39% with TCS).CONCLUSIONS: The use of TCS devices in children as a bridge to transplant has risen rapidly in recent years, led\xc2\xa0by\xc2\xa0the\xc2\xa0growth of magnetically levitated centrifugal flow pumps. Compared with conventional ECMO, TCS durations\xc2\xa0are\xc2\xa0longer, and more importantly, patient survival is superior. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation#Female#Heart Transplantation#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors#United States#Waiting Lists'
b'BACKGROUND: Improved understanding of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) due to titin truncation (TTNtv) may help guide patient stratification.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to establish relationships among TTNtv genotype, cardiac phenotype, and outcomes in DCM.METHODS: In this prospective, observational cohort study, DCM patients underwent clinical evaluation, late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance, TTN sequencing, and adjudicated follow-up blinded to genotype for the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, and major arrhythmic and major heart failure events.RESULTS: Of 716 subjects recruited (mean age 53.5 \xc2\xb1 14.3 years; 469 men [65.5%]; 577 [80.6%]New York Heart Association function class I/II), 83 (11.6%) had TTNtv. Patients with TTNtv were younger at enrollment (49.0 years vs. 54.1 years; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002) and had lower indexed left ventricular mass (5.1 g/m2reduction; padjusted\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03) compared with patients without TTNtv. There was no difference in biventricular ejection fraction between TTNtv+/-groups. Overall, 78 of 604 patients (12.9%) met the primary endpoint (median follow-up 3.9 years; interquartile range: 2.0 to 5.8 years), including 9 of 71 patients with TTNtv (12.7%) and 69 of 533 (12.9%) without. There was no difference in the composite primary outcome of cardiovascular death, heart failure, or arrhythmic events, for patients with or without TTNtv (hazard\xc2\xa0ratio adjusted for primary endpoint: 0.92 [95% confidence interval: 0.45 to 1.87]; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.82).CONCLUSIONS: In this large, prospective, genotype-phenotype study of ambulatory DCM patients, we show that prognostic factors for all-cause DCM also predict outcome in TTNtv DCM, and that TTNtv DCM does not appear to be associated with worse medium-term prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiomyopathy, Dilated#Child#Cohort Studies#Connectin#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Treatments for high-risk essential thrombocythemia (ET) address thrombocytosis, disease-related symptoms, as well as risks of thrombosis, hemorrhage, transformation to myelofibrosis, and leukemia. Patients resistant/intolerant to hydroxycarbamide (HC) have a poor outlook. MAJIC (ISRCTN61925716) is a randomized phase 2 trial of ruxolitinib (JAK1/2 inhibitor) vs best available therapy (BAT) in ET and polycythemia vera patients resistant or intolerant to HC. Here, findings of MAJIC-ET are reported, where the modified intention-to-treat population included 58 and 52 patients randomized to receive ruxolitinib or BAT, respectively. There was no evidence of improvement in complete response within 1 year reported in 27 (46.6%) patients treated with ruxolitinib vs 23 (44.2%) with BAT (P= .40). At 2 years, rates of thrombosis, hemorrhage, and transformation were not significantly different; however, some disease-related symptoms improved in patients receiving ruxolitinib relative to BAT. Molecular responses were uncommon; there were 2 complete molecular responses (CMR) and 1 partial molecular response inCALR-positive ruxolitinib-treated patients. Transformation to myelofibrosis occurred in 1 CMR patient, presumably because of the emergence of a different clone, raising questions about the relevance of CMR in ET patients. Grade 3 and 4 anemia occurred in 19% and 0% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) in the BAT arm, and grade 3 and 4 thrombocytopenia in 5.2% and 1.7% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) of BAT-treated patients. Rates of discontinuation or treatment switching did not differ between the 2 trial arms. The MAJIC-ET trial suggests that ruxolitinib is not superior to current second-line treatments for ET. This trial was registered at www.isrctn.com as #ISRCTN61925716. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Disease Progression#Drug Resistance#Female#Hemorrhage#Humans#Hydroxyurea#Male#Middle Aged#Pyrazoles#Thrombocythemia, Essential#Treatment Outcome#Withholding Treatment'
b"BACKGROUND: Poor and minority children with injuries concerning for abuse are evaluated and diagnosed for abuse differentially. We hypothesized that 2 steps in the decision-making process would influence evaluation and diagnosis: social intuition from meeting the family and objective social information associated with child abuse risk.METHODS: Between 2009 and 2013, 32 child abuse pediatricians (CAPs) submitted 730 child abuse consultations including original medical evaluations and diagnoses. CAPs evaluated and diagnosed each other's cases. Comparisons of evaluations and diagnoses were made by levels of social understanding available to the CAP: meeting the family (social intuition and information), reading the case (social information), and reading the case without social information. Evaluations were compared with a consensus gold standard by using logistic regression modeling adjusting for child and CAP characteristics. Diagnostic categories were compared by level of social understanding and diagnostic certainty by using contingency tables.RESULTS: CAPs without access to social intuition were approximately twice as likely to perform gold standard evaluations for neurotrauma and long bone fracture compared with CAPs who met families. Diagnostic agreement fell from 73.3% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 70.1%-76.5%) when social information was present to 66.5% (95% CI: 63.1%-70.0%) when social information was restricted. In cases with less certainty, agreement dropped to 51.3% (95% CI: 46.0%-56.7%).CONCLUSIONS: Social intuition and information play a role in the physical child abuse decision-making process, which may contribute to differential diagnosis. Simple interventions including decision tools, check lists, and peer review may structure evaluations to ensure children's equal treatment. labels: #Child#Child Abuse#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Humans#Interpersonal Relations#Intuition#Male#Pediatricians#Physician-Patient Relations#Poverty#Referral and Consultation#Risk Factors"
b"Objective\xc2\xa0To determine physician characteristics associated with exnovation (scaling back on use) and de-adoption (abandoning use) of carotid revascularization.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective longitudinal cohort study.Setting\xc2\xa0Medicare claims linked to the Doximity database provider registry, 2006-13.Participants\xc2\xa09158 physicians who performed carotid revascularization on Medicare patients between 2006 and 2013.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcomes were the number of carotid revascularization procedures for each physician per year at the end of the sample period, and the percentage change in the volume of carotid revascularization procedures.Results\xc2\xa0At baseline (2006-07), 9158 physicians performed carotid revascularization. By 2012-13 the use of revascularization in this cohort had declined by 37.7%, with two thirds attributable to scaling back (exnovation) rather than dropping the procedure entirely (de-adoption). Compared with physicians with fewer than 12 years of experience, those with more than 25 years of experience decreased use by an additional 23.0% (95% confidence interval -36.7% to -9.2%). The lowest rates of decline occurred in physicians specializing in vascular or thoracic surgery, for whom the procedures accounted for a large share of revenue. Physicians with high proportions of patients aged more than 80 years or with asymptomatic carotid stenosis were less likely to reduce their use of carotid revascularization.Conclusion\xc2\xa0Surgeons with more experience and the lowest share in carotid revascularization practice reduced their use of the procedure the most. These practice factors should be considered in quality improvement efforts when the evidence base evolves away from a specific treatment. labels: #Carotid Stenosis#Diffusion of Innovation#Endarterectomy, Carotid#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Medicare#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Retrospective Studies#United States"
b"Objective\xc2\xa0To estimate financial payments from industry to US journal editors.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective observational study.Setting\xc2\xa052 influential (high impact factor for their specialty) US medical journals from 26 specialties and US Open Payments database, 2014.Participants\xc2\xa0713 editors at the associate level and above identified from each journal's online masthead.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0All general payments (eg, personal income) and research related payments from pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers to eligible physicians in 2014. Percentages of editors receiving payments and the magnitude of such payments were compared across journals and by specialty. Journal websites were also reviewed to determine if conflict of interest policies for editors were readily accessible.Results\xc2\xa0Of 713 eligible editors, 361 (50.6%) received some (>$0) general payments in 2014, and 139 (19.5%) received research payments. The median general payment was $11 (\xc2\xa38; \xe2\x82\xac9) (interquartile range $0-2923) and the median research payment was $0 ($0-0). The mean general payment was $28\xe2\x80\x89136 (SD $415\xe2\x80\x89045), and the mean research payment was $37\xe2\x80\x89963 (SD $175\xe2\x80\x89239). The highest median general payments were received by journal editors from endocrinology ($7207, $0-85\xe2\x80\x89816), cardiology ($2664, $0-12\xe2\x80\x89912), gastroenterology ($696, $0-20\xe2\x80\x89002), rheumatology ($515, $0-14\xe2\x80\x89280), and urology ($480, $90-669). For high impact general medicine journals, median payments were $0 ($0-14). A review of the 52 journal websites revealed that editor conflict of interest policies were readily accessible (ie, within five minutes) for 17/52 (32.7%) of journals.Conclusions\xc2\xa0Industry payments to journal editors are common and often large, particularly for certain subspecialties. Journals should consider the potential impact of such payments on public trust in published research. labels: #Biomedical Research#Conflict of Interest#Drug Industry#Editorial Policies#Equipment and Supplies#Humans#Income#Manufacturing Industry#Periodicals as Topic#Retrospective Studies#United States"
b"Helen Roberts of Defra's International Disease Monitoring team sets out the situation regarding equine infectious anaemia in Europe, the threat to the UK and the expectations of disease control measures in light of an outbreak being detected. labels: #Animals#Disease Outbreaks#Equine Infectious Anemia#Europe#Horses#Sentinel Surveillance#United Kingdom"
b'In a review summary on page 450, Pasmans and others discuss the future of keeping reptiles and amphibians as pets. Here,Clifford Warwick and othersdiscuss the animal welfare and public health implications of exotic pet business. labels: #Amphibians#Animal Welfare#Animals#Animals, Exotic#Commerce#Forecasting#Public Health#Reptiles'
b'High-resolution maps of enhancer-promoter interactions in rare primary human T cell subsets and coronary artery smooth muscle cells link variants associated with autoimmune and cardiovascular diseases to target genes. This represents an important step forward for mapping genes involved in complex diseases. labels: #Autoimmune Diseases#B-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Chromatin#Chromatin Immunoprecipitation#Chromosome Mapping#Coronary Artery Disease#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Genome, Human#Genome-Wide Association Study#Histones#Humans#Myocytes, Smooth Muscle#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Quantitative Trait Loci#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer'
b'Human-derived tumor models are becoming popular in the context of personalized medicine, but a new study shows that these models could be less representative of primary tumors than previously thought, particularly when using late passages. labels: #Animals#Clonal Evolution#Clone Cells#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA, Neoplasm#Disease Models, Animal#Heterografts#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Mice#Neoplasms#Precision Medicine#Species Specificity#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'We presented adaptive random network models to describe human behavioral change during epidemics and performed stochastic simulations of SIR (susceptible-infectious-recovered) epidemic models on adaptive random networks. The interplay between infectious disease dynamics and network adaptation dynamics was investigated in regard to the disease transmission and the cumulative number of infection cases. We found that the cumulative case was reduced and associated with an increasing network adaptation probability but was increased with an increasing disease transmission probability. It was found that the topological changes of the adaptive random networks were able to reduce the cumulative number of infections and also to delay the epidemic peak. Our results also suggest the existence of a critical value for the ratio of disease transmission and adaptation probabilities below which the epidemic cannot occur. labels: #Communicable Diseases, Emerging#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Epidemics#Humans#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Prevalence#Stochastic Processes#Time Factors'
b'Purpose: To refine the Minnesota Grading System (MGS) using definitions from the Age-Related Eye Disease Studies (AREDS) into a nine-step grading scale (MGS-9).Methods: A nine-step grading scale descriptive analysis using three key phenotypic features (total drusen area, increased, and decreased pigmentation) of human eyebank eyes that were graded according to definitions from the AREDS criteria in order to harmonize studies of disease progression for research involving human tissue. From 2005 through February 2017, we have analyzed 1159 human eyes, procured from two eyebanks. Each macula was imaged using high-resolution, stereoscopic color fundus photography with both direct- and transillumination. Fundus images were digitally overlaid with a grading template and triangulated for foveal centration.Results: We documented and stratified risk for each globe by applying the AREDS nine-step grading scale to the key clinical features from the MGS-9. We found a good distribution within the MGS categories (1-9) with few level eight globes. Eyes were processed within 12.1 \xc2\xb1 6.3, hours from the time of death through imaging, dissection, and freezing or fixation. Applying the MGS-9 to 331 pairs (662 eyes were simultaneously graded), 84% were within one-grading step and 93% within two steps of the fellow eye. We also document reticular pseudodrusen, basal laminar drusen, and pattern dystrophy.Conclusions: The MGS nine-step grading scale enables researchers using human tissue to refine the risk assessment of donor tissue. This analysis will harmonize results among researchers when grading human tissue using MGS criteria. Most importantly, the MGS-9 links directly to the known risk for progression from the AREDS. labels: #Aftercare#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Diagnostic Techniques, Ophthalmological#Eye Banks#Female#Humans#Macula Lutea#Male#Middle Aged#Minnesota#Reproducibility of Results#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Tissue Donors#Wet Macular Degeneration'
b'Purpose: We determined the effects of a remodeled inner retina on the flicker electroretinograms (ERGs) in a rabbit eye at an advanced stage of inherited retinal degeneration.Methods: Six wild-type (WT) and four rhodopsin P347L transgenic (Tg) rabbits were studied at 18 months of age. Flicker ERGs were elicited by sinusoidal stimuli at frequencies of 3.906 to 50.781 Hz. To block the ON and OFF retinal pathways, 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB), and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3(1H, 4H)-dione (CNQX), respectively, were injected intravitreally. The amplitudes and phases of the fundamental components of the pre- and postdrug ERGs were analyzed. The postsynaptic APB (ON-) and CNQX (OFF-) sensitive components were determined by examining the phases and amplitude vectors.Results: The temporal properties of the Tg rabbits were different from those of the WT rabbits and had unique features; at 3.906 Hz, the amplitude was depressed but it increased by more than 3.5-fold at 15.625 Hz. The reduction of the amplitude at 3.906 Hz in Tg rabbits was caused by a cancelation of the ON and OFF components by a phase difference of 180\xc2\xb0. On the other hand, an increase in the amplitude at 15.625 Hz in Tg rabbits was caused by the summation of the ON and OFF components, which had an approximate 120\xc2\xb0 phase difference.Conclusions: The temporal properties of the flicker ERGs of Tg rabbits were affected markedly by the remodeling of the retinal neurons. Evaluations of the flicker ERGs in RP eyes must be done with careful considerations of the current findings. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Photic Stimulation#Rabbits#Retina#Retinal Neurons#Retinitis Pigmentosa'
b'Purpose: To investigate the relationship between objective ocular torsion and the presence or absence of the trochlear nerve in subjects with unilateral superior oblique palsy (SOP).Methods: A total of 159 subjects with congenital and acquired unilateral SOP were reviewed. Eighty-four subjects who had a normal trochlear nerve (present group) and 75 subjects without a trochlear nerve (absent group) were included. Cyclovertical motility parameters and objective ocular torsion were compared between groups, and factors related to ocular torsion were evaluated.Results: The degree of "net" excyclotorsion in the paretic eye was larger in the absent group compared to the present group (P = 0.002). The proportion of net excyclotorsion in the paretic eye was greater in the absent group (11% vs. 37%), while net incyclotorsion was greater in the present group (41% vs. 23%) (P<0.001). Net excyclotorsion of the paretic eye was associated with absence of the trochlear nerve (P<0.001) and smaller size of the paretic SO (P<0.001). Net incyclotorsion of the paretic eye was related with a normal trochlear nerve (P = 0.005), larger size of the paretic SO (P = 0.002), and greater hypertropia during ipsilateral gaze (P = 0.024).Conclusions: The status of the trochlear nerve, paretic SO size, and hypertropia during ipsilateral gaze which reflects the tensile strength of the ipsilateral superior rectus, significantly contribute to ocular torsion in unilateral SOP. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Child#Child, Preschool#Eye Movements#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Ocular Motility Disorders#Oculomotor Muscles#Retrospective Studies#Trochlear Nerve#Trochlear Nerve Diseases#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the angiogenic properties of corneal derived mesenchymal stromal cells (Co-MSC).Methods: Co-MSCs were extracted from human cadaver, and wild-type (C57BL/6J) and SERPINF1-/- mice corneas. The MSC secretome was collected in a serum-free medium. Human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation and fibrin gel bead assay (FIBA) sprout formation were used to assess the angiogenic properties of Co-MSC secretome. Complete corneal epithelial debridement was used to induce corneal neovascularization in wild-type mice. Co-MSCs embedded in fibrin gel was applied over the debrided cornea to evaluate the angiogenic effects of Co-MSCs in vivo. Immunoprecipitation was used to remove soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFLT-1) and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF, SERPINF1 gene) from the Co-MSC secretome.Results: Co-MSC secretome significantly inhibited HUVECs tube and sprout formation. Co-MSCs from different donors consistently contained high levels of antiangiogenic factors including sFLT-1 and PEDF; and low levels of the angiogenic factor VEGF-A. In vivo, application of Co-MSCs to mouse corneas after injury prevented the development of corneal neovascularization. Removing PEDF or sFLT-1 from the secretome significantly diminished the antiangiogenic effects of Co-MSCs. Co-MSCs isolated from SERPINF1-/- mice had significantly reduced antiangiogenic effects compared to SERPINF1+/+ (wild-type) Co-MSCs.Conclusions: These results illustrate the direct antiangiogenic properties of Co-MSCs, the importance of sFLT-1 and PEDF, and their potential clinical application for preventing pathologic corneal neovascularization. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Cadaver#Cells, Cultured#Cornea#Corneal Neovascularization#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Eye Proteins#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Nerve Growth Factors#Serpins#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-1'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the effect of acutely elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) on the functional and blood flow responses of the rat retina to flicker stimulation.Methods: Brown Norway (n = 15) rats were dark-adapted before ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. IOP was raised acutely in one eye to \xe2\x88\xbc45 mm Hg with a vascular loop. In 11 rats, white light flicker stimulus (10 Hz, 2 seconds duration, 0.80 log scotopic cd\xc2\xb7s/m2) was applied before and during IOP elevation, and 10 minutes after loop removal. Changes in the total retinal blood flow (TRBF) and retinal function induced by the visual stimulus were measured simultaneously with a combined optical coherence tomography (OCT) + electroretinography (ERG) system. Systemic blood pressure was measured in the remaining four rats frequently from 10 to 90 minutes post anesthesia injection.Results: The systemic blood pressure remained at 99 \xc2\xb1 4 mm Hg throughout the measurements (n = 4). Under normal IOP, the TRBF was 5.6 \xc2\xb1 1.9 \xce\xbcL/min, and the average retinal blood vessel size (BVS) in the vicinity of the optic nerve head (ONH) was 44.1 \xc2\xb1 4.5 \xce\xbcm. During IOP elevation, the TRBF was significantly lower (3.8 \xc2\xb1 1.2 \xce\xbcL/min, P<0.01) and the BVS was significantly smaller (35.1 \xc2\xb1 2.6 \xce\xbcm, P<0.01). Both TRBF and BVS returned to baseline within \xe2\x88\xbc10 minutes from removal of the vascular loop. The flicker-induced TRBF change measured under normal IOP (6.0 \xc2\xb1 3.3%) was reduced significantly to 0.1 \xc2\xb1 0.3% (P<0.01) during IOP elevation, and recovered to 5.9 \xc2\xb1 1.7% within 10 minutes after loop removal. During IOP elevation, the magnitude of the ERG second harmonic component (SHC) decreased to 55% of its baseline value (P<0.01) and remained significantly smaller than baseline (P<0.01).Conclusions: Acute IOP elevation to 45 mm Hg caused suppression of the retinal functional and TRBF response to flicker stimulation. labels: #Acute Disease#Animals#Blood Pressure#Dark Adaptation#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Photic Stimulation#Rats#Rats, Inbred BN#Regional Blood Flow#Retina#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: Alterations in retinal oxygen metabolism and retinal microcirculation are signs of impending diabetic retinopathy (DR). However, if specific retinal regions are primarily affected is so far unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate if retinal oxygen saturation (SO2) and microvascular hemodynamic parameters follow a distinct regional pattern in patients with diabetes but no DR.Methods: Patients with type II diabetes without clinically apparent DR were imaged as follows: SO2 in peripapillary vessels was assessed with dual-wavelength oximetry. Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) scans were acquired with a prototype system using a swept-source laser with an effective 400 kHz A-scan rate and 16\xc2\xb0 field of view. Regional flow indices termed "flux" were calculated for the peripapillary microvasculature. Parafoveal capillary density was evaluated with the commercially available AngioVue OCTA.Results: Twenty-nine eyes of 16 consecutive patients (59 \xc2\xb1 10 years, 6 females) were included in this study. SO2 differed significantly between quadrants (P<0.001), with a decreasing pattern from the upper nasal through the lower nasal, the upper temporal and the lower temporal quadrant in arterioles and venules. In contrast, peripapillary flux followed an increasing trend from nasally to temporally. Peripapillary and parafoveal microvascular hemodynamic parameters demonstrated no significant regional variability as observed for retinal oxygenation.Conclusions: Metabolic imaging identified regional differences in retinal SO2 without an associated topographic variance in microvascular hemodynamics in type II diabetes without DR. Future studies should focus on the mechanisms causing this heterogeneity in metabolic demand. labels: #Capillaries#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Fundus Oculi#Hemodynamics#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Oximetry#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Regional Blood Flow#Retina#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: To identify and quantify the three distinct retinal capillary plexuses and the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in healthy subjects according to age using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) with novel projection artifact removal (PAR) software and improved segmentation.Methods: All eyes in this cross-sectional study underwent OCTA imaging using RTVue XR Avanti with novel PAR AngioVue software. OCTA scans were analyzed and the three main parafoveal retinal capillary plexuses were segmented and vessel density and FAZ area were calculated.Results: A total of 152 normal eyes from 95 subjects (39 males, 56 females, mean age 42 \xc2\xb1 25 years) were included. The mean vessel density was 15.48 \xc2\xb1 2.04 mm-1 in the superficial retinal capillary plexus (SCP), 15.28 \xc2\xb1 1.82 mm-1 in the intermediate retinal capillary plexus (ICP), and 16.33 \xc2\xb1 2.32 mm-1 in the deep retinal capillary plexus (DCP) for 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm OCTA images. Analysis of 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm scans yielded a mean FAZ area of 0.270 \xc2\xb1 0.101 mm2. The average reduction in vessel density per year of age with 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm OCTA scans was 0.04 mm-1 (0.22%) in the SCP, 0.05 mm-1 (0.27%) in the ICP, and 0.06 mm-1 (0.30%) in the DCP. The average increase in FAZ area per year of age was 0.0015 mm2 (0.72%).Conclusions: Novel PAR software may provide improved visualization of all three major parafoveal retinal capillary plexuses including the ICP. Using this technology, SCP, ICP, and DCP vessel density decreased with increasing age while FAZ area increased with age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Capillaries#Child#Child, Preschool#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Follow-Up Studies#Fovea Centralis#Fundus Oculi#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retinal Vessels#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Young Adult'
b'Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an increasingly common cause of chronic liver disease. Till date, liver biopsy remains the gold standard for identification and quantification of the wide histological spectra of NAFLD. Histological scorings are very useful and widely applied for the diagnosis and management in clinical trials and follow-up studies of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, in view of scarce published literature, there is a need to evaluate them in large cohort of NAFLD. This study was aimed to evaluate the two histological scoring systems (NAS-CRN, SAF) in the diagnosis of NAFLD and to assess the role of histological characteristics as injury markers in NAFLD. Retrospective histological study of liver biopsies of 1000 patients diagnosed as NAFLD, between 2010 and 2016, was conducted. Histopathologic evaluation and semiquantiative scoring based on NAS-CRN and SAF algorithm and their correlation with serum aminotransferase and fibrosis were performed. Liver biopsies were classified according to the NAS-CRN scoring, as NAS<3 (not NASH) in 72 (7.2%), NAS 3-4 (borderline NASH) in 310 (31%), and NAS \xe2\x89\xa55 (definite NASH) in 618 (61.8%), and SAF classified 117 (11.7%) not NASH and 883 (88.3%) definite NASH. There was excellent concordance for definite NASH and not NASH; however, 88.06% of borderline NASH was classified as NASH by SAF. 76.39% by NAS and 78.63% by SAF algorithm who were diagnosed as not NASH showed the presence of fibrosis; however, higher stages of fibrosis were significantly more prevalent in definite NASH, excluding burnt-out cirrhosis. Serum ALT was significantly associated with increasing stages of fibrosis (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and the three categories (not NASH, borderline NASH, and definite NASH) when classified as with/without fibrosis (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Steatosis of higher grades, more ballooned cells, and more foci of Lobular Inflammation were found in significantly higher proportion of patients with NASH (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001), with higher fibrosis stages (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and higher serum ALT levels (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). NAFLD classifications based on histological scoring NAS-CRN and SAF algorithm are concordant for the category of definite NASH and not NASH, while borderline NASH shows discrepant interpretation. There was highly significant correlation between the NAS and SAF categories with high grades of histological characteristics, with serum ALT and with higher stages of fibrosis. Exclusion of fibrosis is a limitation with both scores. labels: #Adult#Alanine Transaminase#Algorithms#Biomarkers#Biopsy#Female#Humans#Liver#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Microscopy#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index'
b"Prior recommendations still aren't implemented 10 years later. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Civil Defense#Decision Making, Organizational#Disaster Planning#Emergencies#Geriatric Nursing#Humans#Nurse's Role#Nursing Homes#Rescue Work#United States"
b"Nurse-led interventions can prepare a vulnerable population. labels: #Alzheimer Disease#Dementia#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Rural Population#United States#United States Department of Veterans Affairs"
b'Bureaucracy and lack of resources challenge licensing and oversight. labels: #Budgets#Certification#Government Regulation#Humans#Licensure, Nursing#New Jersey#Professional Autonomy#Societies, Nursing#Specialty Boards'
b'New guidelines go into effect in January. labels: #Humans#Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Patient Care Management#Practice Guidelines as Topic#United States'
b'Increases in alcohol abuse by women, older adults, and minorities outpaced the national average. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Alcohol Drinking#Alcohol-Related Disorders#Alcoholism#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Minority Groups#Prevalence#Risk-Taking#Sex Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b'Family caregivers are receiving much-needed support, but is it enough? labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Caregivers#Disabled Persons#Female#Health Services Needs and Demand#Helping Behavior#Home Care Services#Home Nursing#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#United States'
b': In recent years, health care organizations have been moving away from a culture that responds to errors and near misses with "shame and blame" and toward a fair and just culture. Such a culture encourages and rewards people for speaking up about safety-related concerns, thus allowing the information to be used for system improvement. In part 1 of this series, we reported on findings from a study that examined how nursing schools handled student errors and near misses. We found that few nursing schools had a policy or a reporting tool concerning these events; and that when policies did exist, the majority did not reflect the principles of a fair and just culture. This article, part 2 of the series, describes several strategies that nursing schools can use for creating such a culture. labels: #Education, Nursing#Humans#Medical Errors#Near Miss, Healthcare#Nurse\'s Role#Nursing Evaluation Research#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Schools, Nursing#Students, Nursing#United States'
b': This series on palliative care is developed in collaboration with the Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association (HPNA; http://hpna.advancingexpertcare.org). The HPNA aims to guide nurses in preventing and relieving suffering and in giving the best possible care to patients and families, regardless of the stage of disease or the need for other therapies. The HPNA offers education, competence, advocacy, leadership, and research. labels: #Delivery of Health Care#Health Expenditures#Humans#Palliative Care#Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act#Undocumented Immigrants#United States'
b"This article is one in a series on the roles of adjunct clinical faculty and preceptors, who teach nursing students and new graduates to apply knowledge in clinical settings. In this article, the author discusses how nursing instructors influence the ethical development of students in the clinical setting. labels: #Clinical Competence#Codes of Ethics#Education, Nursing, Baccalaureate#Ethics, Nursing#Humans#Mentors#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Qualitative Research#Students, Nursing"
b'According to this study. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Behavior Control#Behavior Therapy#Biofeedback, Psychology#Female#Geriatric Nursing#Humans#Male#Nursing Homes#Toilet Training#Urinary Incontinence'
b'According to this study. labels: #Humans#Models, Nursing#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient-Centered Care#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Specialties, Nursing#United States#Workload'
b'According to this study. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cause of Death#Disease Progression#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Observation#Prostatectomy#Prostatic Neoplasms#Survival Analysis#Watchful Waiting'
b"The first step toward solutions to ethical problems. labels: #Critical Care Nursing#Ethics, Nursing#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Medical Errors#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Care Team#Philosophy, Nursing"
b"Receiving recommended childhood vaccinations on schedule is the best way to prevent the occurrence and spread of vaccine-preventable diseases (1). Vaccination coverage among children aged 19-35 months in the United States exceeds 90% for most recommended vaccines in the early childhood series (2); however, previous studies have found that few children receive all recommended vaccine doses on time (3). The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH), using information from the Minnesota Immunization Information Connection (MIIC) and the MDH Office of Vital Records, examined early childhood immunization rates and found that children with at least one foreign-born parent were less likely to be up-to-date on recommended immunizations at ages 2, 6, 18, and 36 months than were children with two U.S.-born parents. Vaccination coverage at age 36 months varied by mother's region of origin, ranging from 77.5% among children born to mothers from Central and South America and the Caribbean to 44.2% among children born to mothers from Somalia. Low vaccination coverage in these communities puts susceptible children and adults at risk for outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases, as evidenced by the recent measles outbreak in Minnesota (4). Increased outreach to immigrant, migrant, and refugee populations and other populations with low up-to-date vaccination rates might improve timely vaccination in these communities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child, Preschool#Disease Outbreaks#Emigrants and Immigrants#Female#Humans#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Male#Measles#Minnesota#Mothers#Parents#Vaccination#Vaccines#Young Adult"
b'State surveillance during the last 10 years reveals a nationwide increase in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection among young adults (1). The proportion of infants born to HCV-infected women is also increasing nationally (2). To estimate the proportion of infants born to HCV-infected women and the frequency of confirmed HCV infection in their infants, maternal name and date of birth from HCV reports in the Wisconsin Electronic Disease Surveillance System (WEDSS) were linked to Wisconsin Medicaid data for 2011-2015 births. During this period, in the Wisconsin Medicaid population, the proportion of women who had evidence of HCV infection during pregnancy increased 93%, from 1 in 368 pregnancies to 1 in 192. Among 183 infants born to women with evidence of HCV viremia during pregnancy, 34% received recommended HCV testing (3). Mother-to-infant (vertical) transmission was documented in 4% of infants. Improvements in HCV screening practices among pregnant women and infants could enhance identification of infants at risk for vertical transmission of HCV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C#Humans#Infant#Infectious Disease Transmission, Vertical#Mass Screening#Medicaid#Middle Aged#Population Surveillance#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Risk Assessment#United States#Viremia#Wisconsin#Young Adult'
b'Cigarette smoking has declined considerably among U.S. adults over several decades (1); however, increases have occurred in the use of noncigarette tobacco products in recent years, and the use of multiple tobacco products has become common among current users of noncigarette tobacco products (2,3). Differences in tobacco use have also been observed across population subgroups, including among working adults (2,4). CDC analyzed National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) data for 2014-2016 to describe the most recent prevalence estimates of current (every day or some days) tobacco product use among working U.S. adults by industry and occupation. Among working adults, 22.1% (32.7 million) currently used any form of tobacco; 15.4% used cigarettes, 5.8% used other combustible tobacco (cigars, pipes, water pipes or hookahs, very small cigars, and bidis), 3.0% used smokeless tobacco, and 3.6% used electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes); 4.6% (6.9 million) reported current use of two or more tobacco products. By industry, any tobacco use ranged from 11.0% among education services to 34.3% among construction workers; current use of two or more tobacco products was highest among construction workers (7.1%). By occupation, any tobacco use ranged from 9.3% among life, physical, and social science workers to 37.2% among installation, maintenance, and repair workers; current use of two or more tobacco products was highest among installation, maintenance, and repair workers (10.1%). Proven interventions to prevent and reduce tobacco product use, including current use of multiple products, among working adults are important (5,6). Workplace tobacco-control interventions have been especially effective in reducing cigarette smoking prevalence (7). labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Industry#Male#Middle Aged#Occupations#Prevalence#Smoking#Tobacco Products#United States#Young Adult'
b'An autoimmune background is suspected for Doberman hepatitis (DH). It is based on the finding of mononuclear cell infiltrates in the liver, strong female bias, association to the homozygous risk factor dog leucocyte antigen (DLA) allele DRB1*00601 and aberrant major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression on hepatocytes that correlates with the degree of inflammation in the liver. The aim of this study was to search for autoantibodies against liver-related antigens associated with DH. Twenty-five Dobermans with subclinical DH (SDH), 13 that clinically manifest DH (CDH) and 17 healthy controls were studied. Immunoblotting analysis detected specific antibodies in the DH sera. By mass spectrometry the targets were identified as liver-related enzymes glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Using ELISA, anti-GAPDH IgG was detected in 36% (9/25) of SDH dogs and 69.2% (9/13) of the CDH dogs compared to healthy controls (0/17) (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0005). Anti-ADH IgG was detected in 72% (18/25) of SDH dogs and 76.9% (10/13) of CDH dogs and only in one (1/17) control (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0005). The finding of novel autoantigens, GAPDH and ADH strengthen the hypothesis that DH is an autoimmune disease of the liver. These findings suggest that DH could be diagnosed by screening for autoantibodies against the defined antigens. labels: #Alcohol Dehydrogenase#Animals#Autoantibodies#Autoantigens#Dogs#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Glyceraldehyde 3-Phosphate#Hepatitis, Animal#Immunoblotting#Male#Proteome#Proteomics'
b"On April 25, 2017, the Sinoe County Health Team (CHT) notified the Liberia Ministry of Health (MoH) and the National Public Health Institute of Liberia of an unknown illness among 14 persons that resulted in eight deaths in Sinoe County. On April 26, the National Rapid Response Team and epidemiologists from CDC, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the African Field Epidemiology Network (AFENET) in Liberia were deployed to support the county-led response. Measures were immediately implemented to identify all cases, ascertain the cause of illness, and control the outbreak. Illness was associated with attendance at a funeral event, and laboratory testing confirmed Neisseria meningitidis in biologic specimens from cases. The 2014-2015 Ebola virus disease (Ebola) outbreak in West Africa devastated Liberia's already fragile health system, and it took many months for the country to mount an effective response to control the outbreak. Substantial efforts have been made to strengthen Liberia's health system to prevent, detect, and respond to health threats. The rapid and efficient field response to this outbreak of N. meningitidis resulted in implementation of appropriate steps to prevent a widespread outbreak and reflects improved public health and outbreak response capacity in Liberia. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Capacity Building#Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Child#Cluster Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#International Cooperation#Liberia#Male#Middle Aged#Neisseria meningitidis#Public Health Practice#United States#World Health Organization#Young Adult"
b'On April 25, 2017, a cluster of unexplained illness and deaths among persons who had attended a funeral during April 21-22 was reported in Sinoe County, Liberia (1). Using a broad initial case definition, 31 cases were identified, including 13 (42%) deaths. Twenty-seven cases were from Sinoe County (1), and two cases each were from Grand Bassa and Monsterrado counties, respectively. On May 5, 2017, initial multipathogen testing of specimens from four fatal cases using the Taqman Array Card (TAC) assay identified Neisseria meningitidis in all specimens. Subsequent testing using direct real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmed N. meningitidis in 14 (58%) of 24 patients with available specimens and identified N. meningitidis serogroup C (NmC) in 13 (54%) patients. N. meningitidis was detected in specimens from 11 of the 13 patients who died; no specimens were available from the other two fatal cases. On May 16, 2017, the National Public Health Institute of Liberia and the Ministry of Health of Liberia issued a press release confirming serogroup C meningococcal disease as the cause of this outbreak in Liberia. labels: #Clinical Laboratory Services#Cluster Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Liberia#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Neisseria meningitidis, Serogroup C#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Time Factors'
b'The fourth United Nations Millennium Development Goal, adopted in 2000, set a target to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. One indicator of progress toward this target was measles vaccination coverage (1). In 2010, the World Health Assembly (WHA) set three milestones for measles control by 2015: 1) increase routine coverage with the first dose of a measles-containing vaccine (MCV1) among children aged 1 year to \xe2\x89\xa590% at the national level and to \xe2\x89\xa580% in every district; 2) reduce global annual measles incidence to<5 cases per million population; and 3) reduce global measles mortality by 95% from the 2000 estimate (2).* In 2012, WHA endorsed the Global Vaccine Action Plan,\xe2\x80\xa0with the objective of eliminating measles in four World Health Organization (WHO) regions by 2015 and in five regions by 2020. Countries in all six WHO regions have adopted goals for measles elimination by or before 2020. Measles elimination is defined as the absence of endemic measles virus transmission in a region or other defined geographic area for \xe2\x89\xa512 months, in the presence of a high quality surveillance system that meets targets of key performance indicators. This report updates a previous report (3) and describes progress toward global measles control milestones and regional measles elimination goals during 2000-2016. During this period, annual reported measles incidence decreased 87%, from 145 to 19 cases per million persons, and annual estimated measles deaths decreased 84%, from 550,100 to 89,780; measles vaccination prevented an estimated 20.4 million deaths. However, the 2015 milestones have not yet been met; only one WHO region has been verified as having eliminated measles. Improved implementation of elimination strategies by countries and their partners is needed, with focus on increasing vaccination coverage through substantial and sustained additional investments in health systems, strengthening surveillance systems, using surveillance data to drive programmatic actions, securing political commitment, and raising the visibility of measles elimination goals. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Eradication#Global Health#Humans#Immunization Programs#Incidence#Infant#Measles#Measles Vaccine#Young Adult'
b'PROBLEM/CONDITION: Receipt of key preventive health services among women and men of reproductive age (i.e., 15-44 years) can help them achieve their desired number and spacing of healthy children and improve their overall health. The 2014 publication Providing Quality Family Planning Services: Recommendations of CDC and the U.S. Office of Population Affairs (QFP) establishes standards for providing a core set of preventive services to promote these goals. These services include contraceptive care for persons seeking to prevent or delay pregnancy, pregnancy testing and counseling, basic infertility services for those seeking to achieve pregnancy, sexually transmitted disease (STD) services, and other preconception care and related preventive health services. QFP describes how to provide these services and recommends using family planning and other primary care visits to screen for and offer the full range of these services. This report presents baseline estimates of the use of these preventive services before the publication of QFP that can be used to monitor progress toward improving the quality of preventive care received by women and men of reproductive age.PERIOD COVERED: 2011-2013.DESCRIPTION OF THE SYSTEM: Three surveillance systems were used to document receipt of preventive health services among women and men of reproductive age as recommended in QFP. The National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) collects data on factors that influence reproductive health in the United States since 1973, with a focus on fertility, sexual activity, contraceptive use, reproductive health care, family formation, child care, and related topics. NSFG uses a stratified, multistage probability sample to produce nationally representative estimates for the U.S. household population of women and men aged 15-44 years. This report uses data from the 2011-2013 NSFG. The Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (PRAMS) is an ongoing, state- and population-based surveillance system designed to monitor selected maternal behaviors and experiences that occur before, during, and shortly after pregnancy among women who deliver live-born infants in the United States. Annual PRAMS data sets are created and used to produce statewide estimates of preconception and perinatal health behaviors and experiences. This report uses PRAMS data for 2011-2012 from 11 states (Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Jersey, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, and West Virginia). The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) is a nationally representative survey of noninstitutionalized civilians in the United States. NHIS collects data on a broad range of health topics, including the prevalence, distribution, and effects of illness and disability and the services rendered for or because of such conditions. Households are identified through a multistage probability household sampling design, and estimates are produced using weights that account for the sampling design, nonresponse, and poststratification adjustments. This report uses data from the 2013 NHIS for women aged 18-44 years.RESULTS: Many preventive health services recommended in QFP were not received by all women and men of reproductive age. For contraceptive services, including contraceptive counseling and advice, 46.5% of women aged 15-44 years at risk for unintended pregnancy received services in the past year, and 4.5% of men who had vaginal intercourse in the past year received services in that year. For sexually transmitted disease (STD) services, among all women aged 15-24 years who had oral, anal, or vaginal sex with an opposite sex partner in the past year, 37.5% were tested for chlamydia in that year. Among persons aged 15-44 years who were at risk because they were not in a mutually monogamous relationship during the past year, 45.3% of women were tested for chlamydia and 32.5% of men were tested for any STD in that year. For preconception care and related preventive health services, data from selected states indicated that 33.2% of women with a recent live birth (i.e., 2-9 months postpartum) talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy; of selected preconception counseling topics, the most frequently discussed was taking vitamins with folic acid before pregnancy (81.2%), followed by achieving a healthy weight before pregnancy (62.9%) and how drinking alcohol (60.3%) or smoking (58.2%) during pregnancy can affect a baby. Nationally, among women aged 18-44 years irrespective of pregnancy status, 80.9% had their blood pressure checked by a health care professional and 31.7% received an influenza vaccine in the past year; 54.5% of those with high blood pressure were tested for diabetes, 44.9% of those with obesity had a health care professional talk with them about their diet, and 55.2% of those who were current smokers had a health professional talk with them about their smoking in the past year. Among all women aged 21-44 years, 81.6% received a Papanicolaou (Pap) test in the past 3 years. Receipt of certain preventive services varied by age and race/ethnicity. Among women with a recent live birth, the percentage of those who talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy increased with age (range: 25.9% and 25.2% for women aged \xe2\x89\xa419 and 20-24 years, respectively, to 35.9% and 37.8% for women aged 25-34 and \xe2\x89\xa535 years, respectively). Among women with a recent live birth, the percentage of those who talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy was higher for non-Hispanic white (white) (35.2%) compared with non-Hispanic black (black) (30.0%) and Hispanic (26.0%) women. Conversely, across most STD screening services evaluated, testing was highest among black women and men and lowest among their white counterparts. Receipt of many preventive services recommended in QFP increased consistently across categories of family income and continuity of health insurance coverage. Prevalence of service receipt was highest among women in the highest family income category (>400% of federal poverty level [FPL]) and among women with insurance coverage for each of the following: contraceptive services among women at risk for unintended pregnancy; medical services beyond advice to help achieve pregnancy; vaccinations (hepatitis B and human papillomavirus [HPV], ever; tetanus, past 10 years; influenza, past year); discussions with a health care professional about improving health before pregnancy and taking vitamins with folic acid; blood pressure and diabetes screening; discussions with a health care professional in the past year about diet, among those with obesity; discussions with a health care professional in the past year about smoking, among current smokers; Pap tests within the past 3 years; and mammograms within the past 2 years.INTERPRETATION: Before 2014, many women and men of reproductive age were not receiving several of the preventive services recommended for them in QFP. Although differences existed by age and race/ethnicity, across the range of recommended services, receipt was consistently lower among women and men with lower family income and greater instability in health insurance coverage.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: Information in this report on baseline receipt during 2011-2013 of preventive services for women and men of reproductive age can be used to target improvements in the use of recommended services through the development ofresearch priorities, information for decision makers, and public health practice. Health care administrators and practitioners can use the information to identify subpopulations with the greatest need for preventive services and make informed decisions on resource allocation. Public health researchers can use the information to guide research on the determinants of service use and factors that might increase use of preventive services. Policymakers can use this information to evaluate the impact of policy changes and assess resource needs for effective programs, research, and surveillance on the use of preventive health services for women and men of reproductive age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Population Surveillance#Preventive Health Services#United States#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a hepatic manifestation or precursor of metabolic syndrome, may increase nephrolithiasis, a renal manifestation of insulin resistance, but the prospective association between NAFLD and incident nephrolithiasis has not been evaluated. We examined the association of NAFLD with the development of nephrolithiasis in a large cohort of Korean men and women.METHODS: We performed a cohort study of 208,578 Korean adults who underwent a health checkup examination between January 2002 and December 2014 and were followed-up annually or biennially through December 2014. NAFLD was defined as the presence of fatty liver in the absence of excessive alcohol use or other identifiable causes. Fatty liver and nephrolithiasis were determined based on ultrasonographic findings. We used a parametric Cox model to estimate the adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) of nephrolithiasis according to the presence of NAFLD.RESULTS: During 1,054,887.6 person-year of follow-up, 16,442 participants developed nephrolithiasis. After adjusting for age, center, year of screening exam, smoking status, alcohol intake, physical activity, education level, body mass index, history of hypertension and diabetes, HOMA-IR, uric acid and C-reactive protein, male participants with NAFLD had a significantly increased risk of nephrolithiasis than those without NAFLD (adjusted HR 1.17, 95% CI 1.06-1.30). However, no association between NAFLD and nephrolithiasis was observed in women (adjusted HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.81-1.16).CONCLUSIONS: In this large cohort study of young and middle-aged Koreans, NAFLD was significantly associated with an increased incidence of nephrolithiasis in men but not in women. labels: #Adult#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrolithiasis#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease'
b"Human action recognition using 3D pose data has gained a growing interest in the field of computer robotic interfaces and pattern recognition since the availability of hardware to capture human pose. In this paper, we propose a fast, simple, and powerful method of human action recognition based on human kinematic similarity. The key to this method is that the action descriptor consists of joints position, angular velocity and angular acceleration, which can meet the different individual sizes and eliminate the complex normalization. The angular parameters of joints within a short sliding time window (approximately 5 frames) around the current frame are used to express each pose frame of human action sequence. Moreover, three modified KNN (k-nearest-neighbors algorithm) classifiers are employed in our method: one for achieving the confidence of every frame in the training step, one for estimating the frame label of each descriptor, and one for classifying actions. Additional estimating of the frame's time label makes it possible to address single input frames. This approach can be used on difficult, unsegmented sequences. The proposed method is efficient and can be run in real time. The research shows that many public datasets are irregularly segmented, and a simple method is provided to regularize the datasets. The approach is tested on some challenging datasets such as MSR-Action3D, MSRDailyActivity3D, and UTD-MHAD. The results indicate our method achieves a higher accuracy. labels: #Algorithms#Biomechanical Phenomena#Humans#Pattern Recognition, Automated"
b'BACKGROUND: Asthma is a non-curable but preventable disease, responsible for higher morbidity worldwide. According to recent WHO report, nearly 235 million people are suffering from asthma leading to 383000 deaths in 2015. The burden of asthma morbidity is higher in developed countries and is increasing in developing countries.OBJECTIVE: The present study was aimed at studying the change in prevalence rate of asthma, associated risk factors and estimation of morbidity burden and avoidable cases of asthma in India.METHODS: The second round of Indian Human Development Survey (IHDS-II), 2011-12, was used for the study. For the present study, asthma was defines as ever diagnosed with asthma or having cough with short breath. Multiple-logistic regression was used to identify the possible risk factors associated with prevalence of reporting asthma. Population attributable fractions (PAFs) were computed to estimate the overall and risk factors specific burden of morbidity due to asthma using the extrapolated population of year 2015 using 2011 census.RESULTS: Overall prevalence rate of asthma increased from 41.9 (per 1000 population) in 2004-05 to 54.9 (per 1000 population) in 2011-12. The prevalence rate of reporting asthma was higher in poorer states compared to richer states, and also varied by sub-geographies, with higher prevalence rate in northern states of the country and lower rates in north-eastern states of the country. The odds of reporting asthma was higher for younger and older ages, individual with fewer years of schooling (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.21-1.64) for individual with zero years of schooling compared to those with 11 or more years of schooling, individual from lower economic status, individual living in household using unclean fuels (OR:1.21; 95% CI: 1.08-1.34) and smokers (OR: 1.34; 95% CI: 1.17-1.55) compared to their counterparts. In the year 2015, the overall morbidity burden of asthma was estimated at nearly 65 million and more than 82 thousand deaths were attributed due to asthma. The burden was highest among individuals living in households using solid fuels (firewood~80%, Kerosene~78%). One-third of the cases could be eliminated by minimising the use of any solid fuels. Around 17% of all the asthma cases in population could be attributed to underweight.CONCLUSION: Eliminating the modifiable risk factors could help reduce in huge amount of asthma cases for example by providing education, cessation in smoking, and schemes like Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), by providing clean fuel (LPG) to poor and vulnerable households. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Asthma#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#India#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Young Adult'
b'The induction of rapid cell death is an effective strategy for plants to restrict biotrophic and hemi-biotrophic pathogens at the infection site. However, activation of cell death comes at a high cost, as dead cells will no longer be available for defense responses nor general metabolic processes. In addition, necrotrophic pathogens that thrive on dead tissue, take advantage of cell death-triggering mechanisms. Mechanisms by which plants solve this conundrum remain described. Here, we identify PLANT SMY2-TYPE ILE-GYF DOMAIN-CONTAINING PROTEIN 1 (PSIG1) and show that PSIG1 helps to restrict cell death induction during pathogen infection. Inactivation of PSIG1 does not result in spontaneous lesions, and enhanced cell death in psig1 mutants is independent of salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis or reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Moreover, PSIG1 interacts with SMG7, which plays a role in nonsense-mediated RNA decay (NMD), and the smg7-4 mutant allele mimics the cell death phenotype of the psig1 mutants. Intriguingly, the psig1 mutants display enhanced susceptibility to the hemi-biotrophic bacterial pathogen. These findings point to the existence and importance of the SA- and ROS-independent cell death constraining mechanism as a part of the plant immune system. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Carrier Proteins#Cell Death#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Nonsense Mediated mRNA Decay#Plant Diseases#Protein Domains#Reactive Oxygen Species#Salicylic Acid'
b'Host-targeting type IV secretion systems (T4SS) evolved from conjugative T4SS machineries that mediate interbacterial plasmid transfer. However, the origins of effectors secreted by these virulence devices have remained largely elusive. Previous work showed that some effectors exhibit homology to toxins of bacterial toxin-antitoxin modules, but the evolutionary trajectories underlying these ties had not been resolved. We previously reported that FicT toxins of FicTA toxin-antitoxin modules disrupt cellular DNA topology via their enzymatic FIC (filamentation induced by cAMP) domain. Intriguingly, the FIC domain of the FicT toxin VbhT of Bartonella schoenbuchensis is fused to a type IV secretion signal-the BID (Bep intracellular delivery) domain-similar to the Bartonella effector proteins (Beps) that are secreted into eukaryotic host cells via the host-targeting VirB T4SS. In this study, we show that the VbhT toxin is an interbacterial effector protein secreted via the conjugative Vbh T4SS that is closely related to the VirB T4SS and encoded by plasmid pVbh of B. schoenbuchensis. We therefore propose that the Vbh T4SS together with its effector VbhT represent an evolutionary missing link on a path that leads from a regular conjugation system and FicTA toxin-antitoxin modules to the VirB T4SS and the Beps. Intriguingly, phylogenetic analyses revealed that the fusion of FIC and BID domains has probably occurred independently in VbhT and the common ancestor of the Beps, suggesting parallel evolutionary paths. Moreover, several other examples of TA module toxins that are bona fide substrates of conjugative T4SS indicate that their recruitment as interbacterial effectors is prevalent and serves yet unknown biological functions in the context of bacterial conjugation. We propose that the adaptation for interbacterial transfer favors the exaptation of FicT and other TA module toxins as inter-kingdom effectors and may thus constitute an important stepping stone in the evolution of host-targeted effector proteins. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Antitoxins#Bacterial Proteins#Bacterial Secretion Systems#Bacterial Toxins#Bartonella#Bartonella Infections#Conjugation, Genetic#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Plasmids#Sequence Homology#Virulence'
b'BACKGROUND: Lack of surveillance systems and accurate data impede evidence-based decisions on treatment and prevention of enteric fever, caused by Salmonella Typhi/Paratyphi. The WHO coordinates a global Invasive Bacterial-Vaccine Preventable Diseases (IB-VPD) surveillance network but does not monitor enteric fever. We evaluated the feasibility and sustainability of integrating enteric fever surveillance into the ongoing IB-VPD platform.METHODOLOGIES: The IB-VPD surveillance system uses WHO definitions to enroll 2-59 month children hospitalized with possible pneumonia, sepsis or meningitis. We expanded this surveillance system to additionally capture suspect enteric fever cases during 2012-2016, in two WHO sentinel hospitals of Bangladesh, by adding inclusion criteria of fever \xe2\x89\xa5102\xc2\xb0F for \xe2\x89\xa53 days, irrespective of other manifestations. Culture-positive enteric fever cases from in-patient departments (IPD) detected in the hospital laboratories but missed by the expanded surveillance, were also enrolled to assess completion. Costs for this integration were calculated for the additional personnel and resources required.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In the IB-VPD surveillance, 5,185 cases were enrolled; 3% (N = 171/5185) were positive for microbiological growth, of which 55% (94/171) were culture-confirmed cases of enteric fever (85 Typhi and 9 Paratyphi A). The added inclusion criteria for enteric fever enrolled an additional 1,699 cases; 22% (358/1699) were positive, of which 85% (349/358) were enteric fever cases (305 Typhi and 44 Paratyphi A). Laboratory surveillance of in-patients of all ages enrolled 311 additional enteric fever cases (263 Typhi and 48 Paratyphi A); 9% (28/311) were 2-59 m and 91% (283/311)>59 m. Altogether, 754 (94+349+311) culture-confirmed enteric fever cases were found, of which 471 were 2-59 m. Of these 471 cases, 94% (443/471) were identified through the hospital surveillances and 6% (28/471) through laboratory results. Twenty-three percent (170/754) of all cases were children<2 years. Additional cost for the integration was USD 44,974/year, a 27% increase to the IB-VPD annual expenditure.CONCLUSION: In a setting where enteric disease is a substantial public health problem, we could integrate enteric fever surveillance into the standard IB-VPD surveillance platform at a modest cost. labels: #Bangladesh#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Paratyphoid Fever#Public Health Surveillance#Salmonella paratyphi A#Salmonella typhi#Typhoid Fever#Typhoid-Paratyphoid Vaccines#Vaccination#World Health Organization'
b'Schistosomiasis has been of concern to local health authorities for most of the last century, and in spite of a lack of effective chemotherapy, the disease was dealt with quite effectively in many endemic countries by snail control and environmental management [1]. Much of this work was reported in journals prior to the electronic era but, sadly, seems to have been subsequently ignored. For many years, there followed a global hiatus on schistosomiasis control, and much of the local expertise was lost, but many things have changed more recently, mainly with the advent of generic and affordable praziquantel. With the increased availability of this drug, there has been anincreasing interest in readdressing schistosomes as well as other neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The strategic approach for this had been based almost exclusively on chemotherapy. Recently, however, questions arose about this strategy with evidence that chemotherapy alone was not succeeding [2]. Additional strategies were needed, and the "Towards Elimination of Schistosomiasis" (TES) 2017 Conference in Cameroon stressed an integrated PHASE strategy. This was in line with the WHO-NTD and WHO-AFRO 2014-2020 Regional Strategy on NTDs and directed emphasis on transmission control. Subsequently, this emphasis was discussed in a comprehensive review [3]that stressed the importance of such additions to any elimination programme. In reality, this means focusing on the aquatic snail hosts where and when transmission occurs, defining other risk factors such as water contact and latrine design and identifying improved sanitation and health education as essential components for elimination. For schistosomiasis reduction during the mid-20th century, transmission control was used extensively, but these facts are not well reported. Recent reviews have attempted to cover previous research [4,5], but sadly, they have left major knowledge gaps, particularly from Africa. These omissions also occurred in a recent WHO pamphlet on molluscicides [6]. Sadly, search engines used to retrieve information appear to miss much done by 5 African research institutes active from 1950 to 1990. It seems appropriate to take a look back to a time when fieldwork was a focus of research and transmission control was emphasised. labels: #Africa#Animals#Congresses as Topic#Disease Eradication#Disease Vectors#Humans#Molluscacides#Neglected Diseases#Praziquantel#Sanitation#Schistosomiasis#Snails#World Health Organization#Zimbabwe'
b'BACKGROUND: Most studies showing a volume outcome effect in resection surgery for oesophago-gastric cancer were conducted before the centralisation of clinical services. This study evaluated the relation between hospital- and surgeon volume and different risk-adjusted outcomes after oesophago-gastric (OG) cancer surgery in England between 2011 and 2013.METHODS: In data from the National Oesophago-Gastric Cancer Audit from the UK, multivariable random-effects logistic regression models were used to quantify the effect of surgeon and hospital volume on three outcomes: 30-day and 90-day mortality and anastomotic leakage. The models included patient risk factors to adjust for differences in case-mix among hospitals and surgeons. The between-cluster heterogeneity was estimated with the median odds ratio (MOR).RESULTS: The study included patients treated at 42 hospitals and 329 surgeons. The median (interquartile range) of the annual hospital and surgeon volumes were 110 patients (82 to 137) and 13 patients (8 to 19), respectively. The overall rates for 30-day and 90-day mortality were 2.3% and 4.4% respectively, and the anastomotic leakage was 6.3%. Higher hospital volume was associated with lower 30-day mortality (OR: 0.94; 95% CI: 0.91-0.98) and lower anastomotic leakage rates (OR: 0.96; 95% CI: 0.93-0.98) but not 90-day mortality. Higher surgeon volume was only associated with lower anastomotic leakage rates (OR: 0.81; 95% CI: 0.72-0.92). Hospital volume explained a part of the between-hospital variation in 30-day mortality whereas surgeon volume explained part of the between-hospital variation in anastomotic leakage.CONCLUSIONS: In the setting of centralized O-G cancer surgery in England, we could still observe an effect of volume on short-term outcomes. However, the effect is inconsistent, depending on the type of outcome measure under consideration, and much smaller than in previous studies. Efforts to centralise O-G cancer services further should carefully address the effects of both hospital and surgeon volume on the range of outcome measures that are relevant to patients. labels: #Aged#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Stomach Neoplasms'
b"BACKGROUND: Barrett's esophagus (BE) and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) are far more prevalent in European Americans than in African Americans. Hypothesizing that this racial disparity in prevalence might represent a genetic susceptibility, we used an admixture mapping approach to interrogate disease association with genomic differences between European and African ancestry.METHODS: Formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples were identified from 54 African Americans with BE or EAC through review of surgical pathology databases at participating Barrett's Esophagus Translational Research Network (BETRNet) institutions. DNA was extracted from normal tissue, and genotyped on the Illumina OmniQuad SNP chip. Case-only admixture mapping analysis was performed on the data from both all 54 cases and also on a subset of 28 cases with high genotyping quality. Haplotype phases were inferred with Beagle 3.3.2, and local African and European ancestries were inferred with SABER plus. Disease association was tested by estimating and testing excess European ancestry and contrasting it to excess African ancestry.RESULTS: Both datasets, the 54 cases and the 28 cases, identified two admixture regions. An association of excess European ancestry on chromosome 11p reached a 5% genome-wide significance threshold, corresponding to -log10(P) = 4.28. A second peak on chromosome 8q reached -log10(P) = 2.73. The converse analysis examining excess African ancestry found no genetic regions with significant excess African ancestry associated with BE and EAC. On average, the regions on chromosomes 8q and 11p showed excess European ancestry of 15% and 20%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Chromosomal regions on 11p15 and 8q22-24 are associated with excess European ancestry in African Americans with BE and EAC. Because GWAS have not reported any variants in these two regions, low frequency and/or rare disease associated variants that confer susceptibility to developing BE and EAC may be driving the observed European ancestry association evidence. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#African Americans#Barrett Esophagus#Esophageal Neoplasms#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans"
b"Maleic acid (MA), an intermediate reagent used in many industrial products, instigated public health concerns in Taiwan when it was used to adulterate an array of starch-based delicacies to improve texture and storage time. Established studies reported that exposure to high concentrations of MA induce renal injury; little is known whether oxidative stress is induced at a relative low dose. This study aims to investigate the effect of oral single dose exposure of MA on the status of oxidative stress and inflammation. Single dose of MA at 0, 6 and 60 mg/kg (control, low- and high-dose groups, respectively) were orally administered to adult male and female rats. Urine samples were collected and analyzed to measure 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), 8-iso-prostaglandin F2\xce\xb1 (8-IsoPGF2\xce\xb1), 8-nitroguanine (8-NO2Gua) and N-acetyl-S-(tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-2-pentyl-3-furanyl)-L-cysteine (HNE-MA) using LC-MS/MS. Results revealed that oral consumption of MA induced oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation, as demonstrated by the statistically significant increases in urinary levels of 8-NO2Gua, 8-OHdG, and 8-isoPGF2\xce\xb1, in high-dosed male rats within 12 h of oral gavage (p<0.05). Additionally, increases in concentration of these biomarkers persist for days after consumption; male rats appear to be more sensitive to oxidative burden compared to their counterparts. The aforementioned findings could help elucidate the mechanisms through which nephrotoxicity occur. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Body Weight#DNA Damage#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Inflammation#Male#Maleates#Oxidative Stress#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley"
b'Merging paired-end shotgun reads generated on high-throughput sequencing platforms can substantially improve various subsequent bioinformatics processes, including genome assembly, binning, mapping, annotation, and clustering for taxonomic analysis. With the inexorable growth of sequence data volume and CPU core counts, the speed and scalability of read-processing tools becomes ever-more important. The accuracy of shotgun read merging is crucial as well, as errors introduced by incorrect merging percolate through to reduce the quality of downstream analysis. Thus, we designed a new tool to maximize accuracy and minimize processing time, allowing the use of read merging on larger datasets, and in analyses highly sensitive to errors. We present BBMerge, a new merging tool for paired-end shotgun sequence data. We benchmark BBMerge by comparison with eight other widely used merging tools, assessing speed, accuracy and scalability. Evaluations of both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that BBMerge produces merged shotgun reads with greater accuracy and at higher speed than any existing merging tool examined. BBMerge also provides the ability to merge non-overlapping shotgun read pairs by using k-mer frequency information to assemble the unsequenced gap between reads, achieving a significantly higher merge rate while maintaining or increasing accuracy. labels: #Algorithms#Computational Biology#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing'
b'INTRODUCTION: Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), a disease caused by protozoan parasites transmitted by tsetse flies, is an important neglected tropical disease endemic in remote regions of sub-Saharan Africa. Although the determination of the burden of HAT has been based on incidence, mortality and morbidity rates, the true burden of HAT goes beyond these metrics. This study sought to establish the socio-economic burden that households with HAT faced and the coping strategies they employed to deal with the increased burden.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A mixed methods approach was used and data were obtained through: review of hospital records; structured interviews (152); key informant interviews (11); case narratives (12) and focus group discussions (15) with participants drawn from sleeping sickness patients in the south western HAT foci in Kenya. Quantitative data were analysed using descriptive statistics while qualitative data was analysed based on emerging themes.RESULTS: Socio-economic impacts included, disruption of daily activities, food insecurity, neglect of homestead, poor academic performance/school drop-outs and death. Delayed diagnosis of HAT caused 93% of the affected households to experience an increase in financial expenditure (ranging from US$ 60-170) in seeking treatment. Out of these, 81.5% experienced difficulties in raising money for treatment resorting to various ways of raising it. The coping strategies employed to deal with the increased financial expenditure included: sale of agricultural produce (64%); seeking assistance from family and friends (54%); sale/lease of family assets (22%); seeking credit (22%) and use of personal savings (17%).CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION: Coping strategies outlined in this study impacted negatively on the affected households leading to further food insecurity and impoverishment. Calculation of the true burden of disease needs to go beyond incidence, mortality and morbidity rates to capture socio-economic variables entailed in seeking treatment and coping strategies of HAT affected households. labels: #Cost of Illness#Family Characteristics#Food Supply#Health Expenditures#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Kenya#Socioeconomic Factors#Trypanosomiasis, African'
b'BACKGROUND: Yaws is a non-venereal treponemal infection caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue. The disease is targeted by WHO for eradication by 2020. Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are envisaged for confirmation of clinical cases during treatment campaigns and for certification of the interruption of transmission. Yaws testing requires both treponemal (trep) and non-treponemal (non-trep) assays for diagnosis of current infection. We evaluate a sequential testing strategy (using a treponemal RDT before a trep/non-trep RDT) in terms of cost and cost-effectiveness, relative to a single-assay combined testing strategy (using the trep/non-trep RDT alone), for two use cases: individual diagnosis and community surveillance.METHODS: We use cohort decision analysis to examine the diagnostic and cost outcomes. We estimate cost and cost-effectiveness of the alternative testing strategies at different levels of prevalence of past/current infection and current infection under each use case. We take the perspective of the global yaws eradication programme. We calculate the total number of correct diagnoses for each strategy over a range of plausible prevalences. We employ probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) to account for uncertainty and report 95% intervals.RESULTS: At current prices of the treponemal and trep/non-trep RDTs, the sequential strategy is cost-saving for individual diagnosis at prevalence of past/current infection less than 85% (81-90); it is cost-saving for surveillance at less than 100%. The threshold price of the trep/non-trep RDT (below which the sequential strategy would no longer be cost-saving) is US$ 1.08 (1.02-1.14) for individual diagnosis at high prevalence of past/current infection (51%) and US$ 0.54 (0.52-0.56) for community surveillance at low prevalence (15%).DISCUSSION: We find that the sequential strategy is cost-saving for both diagnosis and surveillance in most relevant settings. In the absence of evidence assessing relative performance (sensitivity and specificity), cost-effectiveness is uncertain. However, the conditions under which the combined test only strategy might be more cost-effective than the sequential strategy are limited. A cheaper trep/non-trep RDT is needed, costing no more than US$ 0.50-1.00, depending on the use case. Our results will help enhance the cost-effectiveness of yaws programmes in the 13 countries known to be currently endemic. It will also inform efforts in the much larger group of 71 countries with a history of yaws, many of which will have to undertake surveillance to confirm the interruption of transmission. labels: #Cohort Studies#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Diagnostic Techniques and Procedures#Disease Eradication#Epidemiological Monitoring#Humans#Prevalence#Sensitivity and Specificity#Treponema pallidum#Yaws'
b'The thalamus plays a critical role in the genesis of thalamocortical oscillations, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To understand whether the isolated thalamus can generate multiple distinct oscillations, we developed a biophysical thalamic model to test the hypothesis that generation of and transition between distinct thalamic oscillations can be explained as a function of neuromodulation by acetylcholine (ACh) and norepinephrine (NE) and afferent synaptic excitation. Indeed, the model exhibited four distinct thalamic rhythms (delta, sleep spindle, alpha and gamma oscillations) that span the physiological states corresponding to different arousal levels from deep sleep to focused attention. Our simulation results indicate that generation of these distinct thalamic oscillations is a result of both intrinsic oscillatory cellular properties and specific network connectivity patterns. We then systematically varied the ACh/NE and input levels to generate a complete map of the different oscillatory states and their transitions. Lastly, we applied periodic stimulation to the thalamic network and found that entrainment of thalamic oscillations is highly state-dependent. Our results support the hypothesis that ACh/NE modulation and afferent excitation define thalamic oscillatory states and their response to brain stimulation. Our model proposes a broader and more central role of the thalamus in the genesis of multiple distinct thalamo-cortical rhythms than previously assumed. labels: #Acetylcholine#Biological Clocks#Computer Simulation#Deep Brain Stimulation#Feedback, Physiological#Humans#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Neurotransmitter Agents#Norepinephrine#Oscillometry#Synaptic Transmission#Thalamus'
b'African lungfishes are ammonotelic in water. They can aestivate for long periods on land during drought. During aestivation, the gills are covered with dried mucus and ammonia excretion ceases. In fishes, ammonia excretion through the gills involves Rhesus glycoproteins (RhGP/Rhgp). This study aimed to obtain the complete cDNA coding sequences of rhgp from the gills of Protopterus annectens, and to determine their branchial mRNA and protein expression levels during the induction, maintenance and arousal phases of aestivation. Three isoforms of rhgp (rhag, rhbg and rhcg) were obtained in the gills of P. annectens. Their complete cDNA coding sequences ranged between 1311 and 1398 bp, coding for 436 to 465 amino acids with estimated molecular masses between 46.8 and 50.9 kDa. Dendrogramic analyses indicated that Rhag was grouped closer to fishes, while Rhbg and Rhcg were grouped closer to tetrapods. During the induction phase, the protein abundance of Rhag, but not its transcript level, was down-regulated in the gills, suggesting that there could be a decrease in the release of ammonia from the erythrocytes to the plasma. Furthermore, the branchial transcript levels of rhbg and rhcg decreased significantly, in preparation for the subsequent shutdown of gill functions. During the maintenance phase, the branchial expression levels of rhag/Rhag, rhbg/Rhbg and rhcg/Rhcg decreased significantly, indicating that their transcription and translation were down-regulated. This could be part of an overall mechanism to shut down branchial functions and save metabolic energy used for transcription and translation. It could also be regarded as an adaptive response to stop ammonia excretion. During the arousal phase, it is essential for the lungfish to regain the ability to excrete ammonia. Indeed, the protein abundance of Rhag, Rhbg and Rhcg recovered to the corresponding control levels after 1 day or 3 days of recovery from 6 months of aestivation. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Down-Regulation#Fishes#Gills#Glycoproteins#RNA, Messenger#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid'
b'The pathophysiology and natural history of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) are poorly understood. Consequently, our approaches to treatment of POP are limited. Alterations in the extracellular matrix components of pelvic support ligaments and vaginal tissue, including collagen and elastin, have been associated with the development of POP in animals and women. Prior studies have shown the protease MMP-9, a key player of ECM degradation, is upregulated in vaginal tissues from both mice and women with POP. On the other hand, fibulin-5, an elastogenic organizer, has been found to inhibit MMP-9 in the vaginal wall. Hence, we hypothesized that prolonged release of fibulin-5 may delay progression of POP. To test the hypothesis, oligo (ethylene glycol)-based thermosensitive hydrogels were fabricated, characterized and then used to deliver fibulin-5 to the vaginal wall and inhibit MMP-9 activity. The results indicate that hydrogels are cell and tissue compatible. The hydrogels also prolong the \xc2\xbd life of fibulin-5 in cultured vaginal fibroblasts and in the vaginal wall in vivo. Finally, fibulin-5-containing hydrogels resulted in incorporation of fibulin-5 into the vaginal matrix and inhibition of MMP-9 for several weeks after injection. These results support the idea of fibulin-5 releasing hydrogel being developed as a new treatment for POP. labels: #Animals#Female#Hydrogels#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Proteins#Vagina'
b'Cooking oil waste leads to well-known environmental impacts and its bioremediation by lipase-based enzymatic activity can minimize the high cytotoxic potential. In addition, they are among the biocatalysts most commercialized worldwide due to the versatility of reactions and substrates. However, although lipases are able to process cooking oil wastes, the products generated from this process do not necessarily become less toxic. Thus, the aim of the current study is to analyze the bioremediation of lipase-catalyzed cooking oil wastes, as well as their effect on the cytotoxicity of both the oil and its waste before and after enzymatic treatment. Thus, assessed the post-frying modification in soybean oil and in its waste, which was caused by hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by commercial and home-made lipases. The presence of lipases in the extracts obtained from orange wastes was identified by zymography. The profile of the fatty acid esters formed after these reactions was detected and quantified through gas chromatography and fatty acids profile compared through multivariate statistical analyses. Finally, the soybean oil and its waste, with and without enzymatic treatment, were assessed for toxicity in cytotoxicity assays conducted in vitro using fibroblast cell culture. The soybean oil wastes treated with core and frit lipases through transesterification reaction were less toxic than the untreated oils, thus confirming that cooking oil wastes can be bioremediated using orange lipases. labels: #Biodegradation, Environmental#Cooking#Esterification#Lipase#Soybean Oil'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess whether strain histograms are equal to strain ratios in predicting breast tumour malignancy and to see if either could be used to upgrade Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) 3 tumours for immediate biopsy.METHODS: Ninety-nine breast tumours were examined using B-mode BI-RADS scorings and strain elastography. Strain histograms and ratios were assessed, and areas- under-the-receiver-operating-characteristic-curve (AUROC) for each method calculated. In BI-RADS 3 tumours cut-offs for strain histogram and ratio values were calculated to see if some tumours could be upgraded for immediate biopsy. Linear regression was performed to evaluate the effect of tumour depth and size, and breast density on strain elastography.RESULTS: Forty-four of 99 (44.4%) tumours were malignant. AUROC of BI-RADS, strain histograms and strain ratios were 0.949, 0.830 and 0.794 respectively. There was no significant difference between AUROCs of strain histograms and strain ratios (P = 0.405), while they were both inferior to BI-RADS scoring (P<0.001, P = 0.008). Four out of 26 BI-RADS 3 tumours were malignant. When cut-offs of 189 for strain histograms and 1.44 for strain ratios were used to upgrade BI-RADS 3 tumours, AUROCS were 0.961 (Strain histograms and BI-RADS) and 0.941 (Strain ratios and BI-RADS). None of them was significantly different from BI-RADS scoring alone (P = 0.249 and P = 0.414). Tumour size and depth, and breast density influenced neither strain histograms (P = 0.196, P = 0.115 and P = 0.321) nor strain ratios (P = 0.411, P = 0.596 and P = 0.321).CONCLUSION: Strain histogram analyses are reliable and easy to do in breast cancer diagnosis and perform comparably to strain ratio analyses. No significant difference in AUROCs between BI-RADS scoring and elastography combined with BI-RADS scoring was found in this study. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged, 80 and over#Breast Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Mammography#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The entomopathogenic mushroom Cordyceps militaris is an important medicinal and food resource owing to its various medicinal components and pharmacological effects. However, the high frequency of strain degeneration during subculture seriously restricts the large-scale production of C. militaris, and the mechanism underlying strain degeneration remains unclear. In this study, we artificially cultured C. militaris for six generations and compared changes during fruiting body growth. The transcriptome of six generations of C. militaris strains were sequenced with the Illumine Hiseq4000.RESULTS: The subcultured C. militaris strains degenerated beginning at the third generation, with incomplete fruiting body growth beginning at the fourth generation. Over 9,015 unigenes and 731 new genes were identified. In addition, 35,323 alternative splicing (AS) events were detected in all samples, and more AS events occurred in the second, fourth and sixth generations. Compared with the first generation, the third generation (degenerated strain) included 2,498 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) including 1,729 up-regulated and 769 down-regulated genes. This number was higher than the number of DEGs in the second (1,892 DEGs), fourth (2,006 DEGs), fifth (2,273 DEGs) and sixth (2,188 DEGs) generations. Validation of RNA-seq by qRT-PCR showed that the expression patterns of 51 DEGs were in accordance with the transcriptome data.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the mechanism of C. militaris strain degeneration is associated with gene involved in toxin biosynthesis, energy metabolism, and DNA methylation and chromosome remodeling. labels: #Cordyceps#Gene Expression Regulation, Fungal#Genes, Fungal#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Transcriptome'
b'Hemogenic endothelium (HE) undergoes endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT) to generate blood, a process that requires progressive down-regulation of endothelial genes and induction of hematopoietic ones. Previously, we have shown that the transcription factor HoxA3 prevents blood formation by inhibiting Runx1 expression, maintaining endothelial gene expression and thus blocking EHT. In the present study, we show that HoxA3 also prevents blood formation by inhibiting Notch pathway. HoxA3 induced upregulation of Jag1 ligand in endothelial cells, which led to cis-inhibition of the Notch pathway, rendering the HE nonresponsive to Notch signals. While Notch activation alone was insufficient to promote blood formation in the presence of HoxA3, activation of Notch or downregulation of Jag1 resulted in a loss of the endothelial phenotype which is a prerequisite for EHT. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Notch pathway activation is necessary to downregulate endothelial markers during EHT. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Endothelial Cells#Hematopoiesis#Homeodomain Proteins#Jagged-1 Protein#Mice#Receptors, Notch#Signal Transduction'
b'Asthma is a chronic airway inflammation with a potential systemic impact. Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory artery disease. The aim of our study was to prove if there is a correlation between the occurrence of asthma and increased atherosclerotic vessel disorders. Vessel status was compared between mild-to-moderate, severe allergic asthma and matched controls. Measurements of artery stiffness were calculated by central pulse wave velocity, ultrasonographic strain imaging and ankle-brachial index. Atherosclerotic plaque burden was assessed by colour-coded duplex sonography. Additionally, analysis of cardiovascular and asthma blood markers was conducted. Arterial stiffness expressed as an increased central pulse wave velocity and decreased circumferential and radial strains as well as the prevalence of media sclerosis were significantly higher among asthma patients compared to controls. Atherosclerotic plaque burden was relevantly increased in asthma groups vs. controls (severe asthma: 43.1%, mild-to-moderate asthma: 25.0%, control: 14.3% of study participants). Except for the elevated IgE and fibrinogen concentrations as well as leukocyte number there were no relevant differences in the blood parameters between the groups. Allergic asthma is associated with distinct atherosclerotic artery changes compared to the respectively matched control collective. The severity of asthma correlates with more pronounced pathological vessel alternations. labels: #Adult#Arteries#Asthma#Atherosclerosis#Biomarkers#Female#Fibrinogen#Humans#Immunoglobulin E#Leukocyte Count#Male#Middle Aged#Pulse Wave Analysis#Ultrasonography, Doppler, Duplex'
b'The net form of net blotch caused by the necrotrophic fungus Pyrenophora teres f. teres is a major disease of barley, causing high yield losses and reduced malting and feed quality. Exploiting the allelic richness of wild barley proved to be a valuable tool to broaden the genetic base of resistance of modern elite cultivars. In this study, a SNP-based nested association mapping (NAM) study was conducted to map QTL for P. teres resistance in the barley population HEB-25 comprising 1,420 lines derived from BC1S3 generation. By scoring the percentage of infected leaf area followed by calculation of the average ordinate (AO) and scoring of the reaction type (RT) in two-year field trials a large variability of net blotch resistance across and within families of HEB-25 was observed. Genotype response to net blotch infection showed a range of 48.2% for AO (0.9-49.1%) and 6.4 for RT (2.2-8.6). NAM based on 5,715 informative SNPs resulted in the identification of 24 QTL for resistance against net blotch. Out of these, six QTL are considered novel showing no correspondence to previously reported QTL for net blotch resistance. Overall, variation of net blotch resistance in HEB-25 turned out to be controlled by small effect QTL. Results indicate the presence of alleles in HEB-25 differing in their effect on net blotch resistance. Results provide valuable information regarding the genetic architecture of the complex barley-P. teres f. teres interaction as well as for the improvement of net blotch resistance of elite barley cultivars. labels: #Ascomycota#Disease Resistance#Genotype#Hordeum#Plant Diseases#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b'BACKGROUND: Individuals with schizophrenia who are involuntarily admitted may have poorer prognosis, including higher readmission rates, than those voluntarily admitted. However, little is known about the risk factors for readmission in those schizophrenia patients who are involuntarily admitted.AIMS: We aim to explore the risk factors for readmission in this population.METHOD: We enrolled 138 schizophrenia patients with involuntary admission from July 2008 to June 2013 and followed those patients for readmission outcomes at 3 months and at 1 year.RESULTS: The one-year and 3-months readmission rates were 33.3% and 15.2%, respectively. Unmarried status (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 6.28, 95% CI: 1.48-26.62), previous history of involuntary admission (aOR = 4.08, 95% CI: 1.19-14.02), longer involuntary admission days (aOR = 1.04, 95% CI: 1.01-1.07) and shorter total admission days (aOR = 1.03, 95% CI: 1.01-1.05) were associated with increased risk for 1-year readmission. Younger age (aOR = 1.10, 95% CI 1.02-1.18) was associated with increased risk for 3-months readmission.CONCLUSIONS: Unmarried status, prior history of involuntary admission, longer involuntary admission days and shorter total admission days were associated with increased risk for 1-year readmission. Healthcare providers may need to focus on patients with these risk factors to reduce subsequent readmissions. labels: #Adult#Commitment of Mentally Ill#Female#Humans#Male#Patient Readmission#Risk Factors#Schizophrenia#Socioeconomic Factors#Taiwan#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: The weaning pig is used as an experimental model to assess the impact of diet on intestinal health. Blood parameters (BP) are considered a useful tool in humans, but there is very scarce information of such indicators in the weaning pig. The objective of the present study is to evaluate the use of different BP as indicators in an experimental model of salmonellosis.METHODOLOGY: Seventy-two 28-day-old piglets were divided into four groups in a 2x2 factorial arrangement, with animals receiving or not a probiotic combination based on B. infantis IM1\xc2\xae and B. lactis BPL6 (109 colony forming units (cfu)/d) and orally challenged or not a week later with Salmonella Typhimurium (5x108 cfu). Blood samples of one animal per pen (N = 24) were taken four days post-inoculation for the evaluation of different BP using an I-stat\xc2\xae System and of plasmatic concentrations of zinc, iron and copper.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Results reported marginal deficiencies of zinc in piglets at weaning. Moreover, plasmatic zinc, copper and iron presented good correlations with weight gain (r 0.57, r -0.67, r 0.54 respectively; P<0.01). Blood electrolytes (Na+, Cl- and K+) decreased (P<0.01) only when the performance of the animals was seriously compromised and clinical symptoms were more apparent. Acid-base balance parameters such as HCO3-, TCO2 and BEecf significantly correlated with weight gain, but only in the challenged animals (r -0.54, r -0.55, and r -0.51, respectively; P<0.05), suggesting metabolic acidosis depending on Salmonella infection. Glucose was affected by the challenge (P = 0.040), while Htc and Hgb increased with the challenge and decreased with the probiotic (P<0.05). Furthermore, correlations of Glu, Htc and Hgb with weight gain were observed (P<0.05). Overall, BP could be regarded as simple, useful indexes to assess performance and health of weaning piglets. labels: #Acid-Base Equilibrium#Animals#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Disease Models, Animal#Metals#Salmonella#Salmonella Infections#Swine#Swine Diseases'
b'The question of withdrawing artificial nutrition and hydration from people in a permanent vegetative state sparks considerable ethical and legal debate. Therefore, understanding the elements that influence such a decision is crucial. However, exploring perceptions of artificial nutrition and hydration is methodologically challenging for several reasons. First, because of the emotional state of the professionals and family members, who are facing an extremely distressing situation; second, because this question mirrors representations linked to a deep-rooted fear of dying of hunger and thirst; and third, because of taboos surrounding death. We sought to determine the best method to explore such complex situations in depth. This article aims to assess the relevance of the photo-elicitation interview method to analyze the perceptions and attitudes of health professionals and families of people in a permanent vegetative state regarding artificial nutrition and hydration. The photo-elicitation interview method consists in inserting one or more photographs into a research interview. An original set of 60 photos was built using Google Images and participants were asked to choose photos (10 maximum) and talk about them. The situations of 32 patients were explored in 23 dedicated centers for people in permanent vegetative state across France. In total, 138 interviews were conducted with health professionals and family members. We found that the photo-elicitation interview method 1) was well accepted by the participants and allowed them to express their emotions constructively, 2) fostered narration, reflexivity and introspection, 3) offered a sufficient "unusual angle" to allow participants to go beyond stereotypes and habits of thinking, and 4) can be replicated in other research areas. The use of visual methods currently constitutes an expanding area of research and this study stressed that this is of special interest to enhance research among populations facing end-of-life and ethical issues. labels: #Caregivers#Family#Female#Humans#Male#Parenteral Nutrition#Perception#Persistent Vegetative State#Photography#Physicians'
b'We conducted two studies of circadian misalignment in non-Hispanic African and European-Americans. In the first, the sleep/wake (light/dark) schedule was advanced 9 h, similar to flying east, and in the second these schedules were delayed 9 h, similar to flying west or sleeping during the day after night work. We confirmed that the free-running circadian period is shorter in African-Americans compared to European-Americans, and found differences in the magnitude and direction of circadian rhythm phase shifts which were related to the circadian period. The sleep and cognitive performance data from the first study (published in this journal) documented the impairment in both ancestry groups due to this extreme circadian misalignment. African-Americans slept less and performed slightly worse during advanced/misaligned days than European-Americans. The current analysis is of sleep and cognitive performance from the second study. Participants were 23 African-Americans and 22 European-Americans (aged 18-44 years). Following four baseline days (8 h time in bed, based on habitual sleep), the sleep/wake schedule was delayed by 9 h for three days. Sleep was monitored using actigraphy. During the last two baseline/aligned days and the first two delayed/misaligned days, beginning 2 h after waking, cognitive performance was assessed every 3 h using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) battery. Mixed model ANOVAs assessed the effects of ancestry (African-American or European-American) and condition (baseline/aligned or delayed/misaligned) on sleep and performance. There was decreased sleep and impaired cognitive performance in both ancestry groups during the two delayed/misaligned days relative to baseline/aligned days. Sleep and cognitive performance did not differ between African-Americans and European-Americans during either baseline/aligned or delayed/misaligned days. While our previous work showed that an advance in the sleep/wake schedule impaired the sleep of African-Americans more than European-Americans, delaying the sleep/wake schedule impaired the sleep and cognitive performance of African-Americans and European-Americans equally. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#African Americans#Circadian Rhythm#Cognition#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Humans#Male#Sleep#Wakefulness'
b'Here we made an attempt to obtain partial structural information on the topology of multispan integral membrane proteins of yeast by isolating organellar membranes, removing peripheral membrane proteins at pH 11.5 and introducing chemical crosslinks between vicinal amino acids either using homo- or hetero-bifunctional crosslinkers. Proteins were digested with specific proteases and the products analysed by mass spectrometry. Dedicated software tools were used together with filtering steps optimized to remove false positive crosslinks. In proteins of known structure, crosslinks were found only between loops residing on the same side of the membrane. As may be expected, crosslinks were mainly found in very abundant proteins. Our approach seems to hold to promise to yield low resolution topological information for naturally very abundant or strongly overexpressed proteins with relatively little effort. Here, we report novel XL-MS-based topology data for 17 integral membrane proteins (Akr1p, Fks1p, Gas1p, Ggc1p, Gpt2p, Ifa38p, Ist2p, Lag1p, Pet9p, Pma1p, Por1p, Sct1p, Sec61p, Slc1p, Spf1p, Vph1p, Ybt1p). labels: #Cross-Linking Reagents#Mass Spectrometry#Membrane Proteins#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'Tmprss6-mutated mask mice display iron deficiency anemia and high expression of hepcidin. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of erythropoietin administration on proteins participating in the control of iron homeostasis in the liver and spleen in C57BL/6 and mask mice. Administration of erythropoietin for four days at 50 IU/mouse/day increased hemoglobin and hematocrit in C57BL/6 mice, no such increase was seen in mask mice. Erythropoietin administration decreased hepcidin expression in C57BL/6 mice, but not in mask mice. Erythropoietin treatment significantly increased the spleen size in both C57BL/6 and mask mice. Furthermore, erythropoietin administration increased splenic Fam132b, Fam132a and Tfr2 mRNA content. At the protein level, erythropoietin increased the amount of splenic erythroferrone and transferrin receptor 2 both in C57BL/6 and mask mice. Splenic ferroportin content was decreased in erythropoietin-treated mask mice in comparison with erythropoietin-treated C57BL/6 mice. In mask mice, the amount of liver hemojuvelin was decreased in comparison with C57BL/6 mice. The pattern of hemojuvelin cleavage was different between C57BL/6 and mask mice: In both groups, a main hemojuvelin band was detected at approximately 52 kDa; in C57BL/6 mice, a minor cleaved band was seen at 47 kDa. In mask mice, the 47 kDa band was absent, but additional minor bands were detected at approximately 45 kDa and 48 kDa. The results provide support for the interaction between TMPRSS6 and hemojuvelin in vivo; they also suggest that hemojuvelin could be cleaved by another as yet unknown protease in the absence of functional TMPRSS6. The lack of effect of erythropoietin on hepcidin expression in mask mice can not be explained by changes in erythroferrone synthesis, as splenic erythroferrone content increased after erythropoietin administration in both C57BL/6 and mask mice. labels: #Animals#Cytokines#Erythropoietin#Gene Expression Regulation#Hepcidins#Iron#Liver#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Mutant Strains#Muscle Proteins#Organ Size#RNA-Binding Proteins#Serine Endopeptidases#Spleen'
b'Presently, climate change has increased the frequency of extreme meteorological events such as tropical cyclones. In the western Pacific basin, these cyclones are called typhoons, and in this area, around Taiwan Island, their frequency has almost doubled since 2000. When approaching landmasses, typhoons have devastating effects on coastal vegetation. The increased frequency of these events has challenged the survival of coastal plant species and their posttyphoon recovery. In this study, a population of coastal gynodioecious Ficus pedunculosa var. mearnsii (Mearns fig) was surveyed for two years to investigate its recovery after Typhoon Morakot, which occurred in August 2009. Similar to all the Ficus species, the Mearns fig has an obligate mutualistic association with pollinating fig wasp species, which requires syconia (the closed Ficus inflorescence) to complete its life cycle. Moreover, male gynodioecious fig species produces both pollen and pollen vectors, whereas the female counterpart produces only seeds. The recovery of the Mearns fig was observed to be rapid, with the production of both leaves and syconia. The syconium:leaf ratio was greater for male trees than for female trees, indicating the importance of syconium production for the wasp survival. Pollinating wasps live for approximately 1 day; therefore, receptive syconia are crucial. Every typhoon season, few typhoons pass by the coasts where the Mearns fig grows, destroying all the leaves and syconia. In this paper, we highlight the potential diminution of the fig population that can lead to the extinction of the mutualistic pair of species. The effects of climate change on coastal species warrant wider surveys. labels: #Animals#Climate Change#Cyclonic Storms#Ficus#Models, Biological#Pollination#Taiwan#Wasps'
b'We developed new quantitative palaeoclimatic inference models based on the body-size structure of mammal faunas from the Old World tropics and applied them to the Somosaguas fossil site (middle Miocene, central Iberian Peninsula). Twenty-six mammal species have been described at this site, including proboscideans, ungulates, carnivores, insectivores, lagomorphs and rodents. Our analyses were based on multivariate and bivariate regression models correlating climatic data and body-size structure of 63 modern mammal assemblages from Sub-Saharan Africa and the Indian subcontinent. The results showed an average temperature of the coldest month higher than 26\xc2\xb0C for the Somosaguas fossil site, a mean annual thermal amplitude around 10\xc2\xb0C, a drought length of 10 months, and an annual total precipitation greater than 200 mm per year, which are climate conditions typical of an ecotonal zone between the savanna and desert biomes. These results are congruent with the aridity peaks described over the middle Aragonian of Spain and particularly in the local biozone E, which includes Somosaguas. The aridity increase detected in this biozone is associated with the Middle Miocene Global Cooling Event. The environment of Somosaguas around 14 Ma was similar to the current environment in the Sahel region of North Africa, the Horn of Africa, the boundary area between the Kalahari and the Namib in Southern Africa, south-central Arabia, or eastern Pakistan and northwestern India. The distribution of modern vegetation in these regions follows a complex mosaic of plant communities, dominated by scattered xerophilous shrublands, semidesert grasslands, and vegetation linked to seasonal watercourses and ponds. labels: #Animals#Body Size#Desert Climate#Fossils#Mammals#Spain'
b'Porcine circovirus-associated disease is caused by porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) infection, which targets iliac artery endothelial cells (PIECs); it leads to severe immunopathologies and is associated with major economic losses in the porcine industry. Here, we report that in vitro PCV2 infection of PIECs causes cell injury, which affects DC function as well as adaptive immunity. Specifically, PCV2 infection downregulated PIEC antigen-presenting molecule expression, upregulated cytokines involved in the immune and inflammatory response causing cell damage and repair, and altered the migratory capacity of PIECs. In addition, PCV2-infected PIECs inhibited DC maturation, enhanced the endocytic ability of DCs, and weakened the stimulatory effect of DCs on T lymphocytes. Together, these findings indicate that profound functional impairment of DCs in the presence of PCV2-infected PIECs may be a potential pathogenic mechanism associated with PCV2-induced porcine disease. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Circoviridae Infections#Circovirus#Cytokines#Dendritic Cells#Endothelial Cells#Iliac Artery#Monocytes#Swine#T-Lymphocytes'
b'Plasma levels of FGF23 are increased in patients with chronic kidney disease. Beside its role in phosphate homeostasis, iron deficiency and anemia are associated with increased FGF23 plasma levels. Recently, FGF23 plasma levels were shown to be increased in mice after treatment with hypoxia inducible factor-proline hydroxylase (HIF-PH) inhibitors which are strong inducers of erythropoietin and erythropoiesis and are known to modulate iron uptake and availability. Therefore we investigated a potential context between expression of FGF23 and stimulation of erythropoiesis using a HIF-PH inhibitor and erythropoietin in rats. FGF23 plasma levels are induced at peak levels 2 h after intravenous injection of recombinant human Erythropoietin (rhEPO). Likewise induction of endogenous EPO using a HIF-PH inhibitor (BAY 85-3934) is followed by an increase of FGF23 plasma levels. In contrast to rhEPO the HIF-PH inhibitor induces lower peak levels of FGF23 applying equivalent hematopoietic doses. Bone and bone marrow were identified as sources of EPO-induced FGF23. Immediate induction of FGF23 mRNA was also detected in EPO receptor positive murine hematopoietic BAF3 cells after treatment with rhEPO but not after treatment with the HIF-PH inhibitor. Pretreatment of mice with a neutralizing anti-EPO antibody abrogated FGF23 induction by the HIF-PH inhibitor. Thus, direct impact on FGF23 expression by HIF-PH inhibition in vivo via hypoxia mimicking and modulation of iron metabolism appears unlikely. Collectively, the findings point to an EPO dependent regulation pathway of FGF23 gene expression which might be important in the context of erythropoiesis stimulating therapies in patients with renal anemia. labels: #Animals#Enzyme Inhibitors#Erythropoietin#Fibroblast Growth Factors#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-Proline Dioxygenases#Male#Mice#RNA, Messenger#Rats'
b'There is a paucity of health policy relevant data for chronic liver disease from India, impeding formulation of an interventional strategy to address the issue. A prospective, multicentric study to delineate the etiology and clinical profile of chronic liver disease in India is reported here. A centrally coordinated and monitored web-based data repository was developed (Feb, 2010 to Jan, 2013) and analyzed. Eleven hospitals from different parts of India participated. Data were uploaded into a web based proforma and monitored by a single centre according to a standardized protocol. 1.28% (n = 266621) of all patients (n = 20701383) attending the eleven participating hospitals of India had liver disease. 65807 (24\xc2\xb768%) were diagnosed for the first time (new cases). Of these, 13014 (19\xc2\xb777%, median age 43 years, 73% males) cases of chronic liver disease were finally analyzed. 33.9% presented with decompensated cirrhosis. Alcoholism (34\xc2\xb73% of 4413) was the commonest cause of cirrhosis while Hepatitis B (33\xc2\xb73%) was predominant cause of chronic liver disease in general and non-cirrhotic chronic liver disease (40\xc2\xb78% out of 8163). There was significant interregional differences (hepatitis C in North, hepatitis B in East and South, alcohol in North-east, Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in West) in the predominant cause of chronic liver disease. Hepatitis B (46\xc2\xb78% of 438 cases) was the commonest cause of hepatocellular Cancer.11\xc2\xb77% had diabetes. Observations of our study will help guide a contextually relevant liver care policy for India and could serve as a framework for similar endeavor in other developing countries as well. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Child#Child, Preschool#Chronic Disease#Female#Health Facilities#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#India#Infant#Liver Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'IQGAPs is a family of proteins which comprises three members, in humans. The expression pattern and role of IQGAP1 has been well established in many cancers, whereas those of IQGAP2 and IQGAP3, have mostly remained unexplored. We used available large datasets, to explore the pan-cancer status of these two genes in-silico. Here we have analysed their mRNA expression and correlation with survivability in eight different cancers, including lung, breast, gastric, brain, colorectal, prostate, liver and kidney cancers and, their subtypes. The mRNA expression of IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 in individual cancers were analysed in two different publicly available databases viz. Oncomine and TCGA. The prognostic value of these genes in lung, breast and gastric cancer was analysed using Kaplan-Meier Plotter database, whereas for brain, colorectal, liver, prostate and kidney cancers, SurvExpress database was used. These results were validated by immunohistochemistry in cancer tissues (stomach, prostate, brain, colorectal). Moreover, we did IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 genomic alteration and, promoter methylation analysis using cBioportal and Wanderer web tool, respectively. Most of the cancer types (lung, breast, prostate, brain, gastric, liver, kidney and colorectal) showed increased IQGAP3 mRNA expression. In contrast, the IQGAP2 transcript levels were reduced across different cancers viz. lung, breast, gastric, liver, kidney and colorectal cancer. IQGAP2 expression correlated positively with survivability, on the contrary, IQGAP3 expression levels correlated inversely with survivability, in most of the cancers. Collectively, enhanced IQGAP3 and reduced IQGAP2 levels were frequently observed in multiple cancers with the former predicting poor survivability and the later opposite. Methylation pattern was significantly altered in most of the cancer types. We found copy no. variation and mutations in specific cancers, for IQGAP2 and IQGAP3. Our in-vivo (IHC) data confirmed the in-silico findings completely. Hence, IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 have potential to be used as prognostic markers or therapeutic targets in specific cancers. labels: #Computational Biology#DNA Methylation#Data Mining#GTPase-Activating Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Neoplasm Staging#Neoplasms#Prognosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#ras GTPase-Activating Proteins'
b'PURPOSE: To study the effect of torsional phacoemulsification energy on corneal endothelium evaluating the relationship between changes of endothelial cells and postoperative visual acuity.METHODS: This prospective clinical observational cohort study included 50 patients with cataract who underwent torsional phacoemulsification. Sequential quantitative and qualitative morphometric endothelial cell analyses of the cornea were performed four weeks preoperatively and six weeks postoperatively using noncontact specular microscopy.RESULTS: This work confirmed the strong relationship, described by a linear model (one-way ANOVA, R2 = 77.9%, P<0.0001), between the percentage of endothelial cell loss (ECL%) and the 5-score harm scale. According to the Tukey post-hoc pairwise comparison test, distinct values of ECL% are grouped in 3 subsets. The value of ECL = 10% has been identified as cut-off to discriminate patients with excellent postoperative best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA>85 letters) from those with just a good/satisfied visual outcome (BCVA \xe2\x89\xa4 85 letters). Within the 5-score harm scale, there was a significant correlation among phaco energy intraoperatively delivered and the average endothelial cell loss.CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the validity of the 5-score harm scale first proposed by Sorrentino and colleagues in 2016. This time, the method categorizes cataracts taking into account nucleus hardness and phaco cumulative dissipated energy. Predicting the harm on corneal endothelium, we can discriminate patients with excellent BCVA and with just good/satisfied BCVA. With torsional phacoemulsification with respect to longitudinal, the percentage of patients who can reach excellent BCVA is remarkably increased. labels: #Endothelium, Corneal#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phacoemulsification#Pilot Projects#Prospective Studies#Visual Acuity'
b'Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease driving inflammatory and degenerative processes that damage the central nervous system (CNS). However, it is not well understood how these events interact and evolve to evoke such a highly dynamic and heterogeneous disease. We established a hypothesis whereby the variability in the course of MS is driven by the very same pathogenic mechanisms responsible for the disease, the autoimmune attack on the CNS that leads to chronic inflammation, neuroaxonal degeneration and remyelination. We propose that each of these processes acts more or less severely and at different times in each of the clinical subgroups. To test this hypothesis, we developed a mathematical model that was constrained by experimental data (the expanded disability status scale [EDSS] time series) obtained from a retrospective longitudinal cohort of 66 MS patients with a long-term follow-up (up to 20 years). Moreover, we validated this model in a second prospective cohort of 120 MS patients with a three-year follow-up, for which EDSS data and brain volume time series were available. The clinical heterogeneity in the datasets was reduced by grouping the EDSS time series using an unsupervised clustering analysis. We found that by adjusting certain parameters, albeit within their biological range, the mathematical model reproduced the different disease courses, supporting the dynamic CNS damage hypothesis to explain MS heterogeneity. Our analysis suggests that the irreversible axon degeneration produced in the early stages of progressive MS is mainly due to the higher rate of myelinated axon degeneration, coupled to the lower capacity for remyelination. However, and in agreement with recent pathological studies, degeneration of chronically demyelinated axons is not a key feature that distinguishes this phenotype. Moreover, the model reveals that lower rates of axon degeneration and more rapid remyelination make relapsing MS more resilient than the progressive subtype. Therefore, our results support the hypothesis of a common pathogenesis for the different MS subtypes, even in the presence of genetic and environmental heterogeneity. Hence, MS can be considered as a single disease in which specific dynamics can provoke a variety of clinical outcomes in different patient groups. These results have important implications for the design of therapeutic interventions for MS at different stages of the disease. labels: #Brain#Computational Biology#Databases, Factual#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Multiple Sclerosis#Prospective Studies'
b'The effect of high pressure thermal (HPT) processing on the inactivation of spores of proteolytic type B Clostridium botulinum TMW 2.357 in four differently composed low-acid foods (green peas with ham, steamed sole, vegetable soup, braised veal) was studied in an industrially feasible pressure range and temperatures between 100 and 120\xc2\xb0C. Inactivation curves exhibited rapid inactivation during compression and decompression followed by strong tailing effects. The highest inactivation (approx. 6-log cycle reduction) was obtained in braised veal at 600 MPa and 110\xc2\xb0C after 300 s pressure-holding time. In general, inactivation curves exhibited similar negative exponential shapes, but maximum achievable inactivation levels were lower in foods with higher fat contents. At high treatment temperatures, spore inactivation was more effective at lower pressure levels (300 vs. 600 MPa), which indicates a non-linear pressure/temperature-dependence of the HPT spore inactivation efficiency. A comparison of spore inactivation levels achievable using HPT treatments versus a conventional heat sterilization treatment (121.1\xc2\xb0C, 3 min) illustrates the potential of combining high pressures and temperatures to replace conventional retorting with the possibility to reduce the process temperature or shorten the processing time. Finally, experiments using varying spore inoculation levels suggested the presence of a resistant fraction comprising approximately 0.01% of a spore population as reason for the pronounced tailing effects in survivor curves. The loss of the high resistance properties upon cultivation indicates that those differences develop during sporulation and are not linked to permanent modifications at the genetic level. labels: #Clostridium botulinum type B#Food Microbiology#Hot Temperature#Microbial Viability#Nonlinear Dynamics#Pressure#Spores, Bacterial'
b'Cuticular waxes of plant and organ surfaces play an important role in protecting plants from biotic and abiotic stress and extending the freshness, storage time and shelf life in the post-harvest agricultural products. WRI1, a transcription factor of AP2/SHEN families, had been found to trigger the related genes taking part in the biosynthesis of seed oil in many plants. But whether WRI1 is involved in the biosynthesis of the cuticular waxes on the Malus fruits surface has been unclear. We investigated the changes of wax composition and structure, the related genes and WRI1 expression on Malus asiatica Nakai and sieversii fruits with the low temperature treatments, found that low temperature induced the up-regulated expression of McWRI1, which promoted gene expression of McKCS, McLACs and McWAX in very-long-chain fatty acid biosynthesis pathway, resulting in the accumulation of alkanes component and alteration of wax structure on the fruit surface. Corresponding results were verified in McWRI1 silenced by VIGS, and WRI1 silenced down-regulated the related genes on two kinds of fruits, it caused the diversity alteration in content of some alkanes, fatty acid and ester component in two kinds of fruits. We further conducted Y1H assay to find that McWRI1 transcription factor activated the promoter of McKCS, McLAC and McWAX to regulate their expression. These results demonstrated that McWRI1 is involved in regulating the genes related synthesis of very long chain fatty acid on surface of apple fruits in storage process, providing a highlight for improvement of the modified atmosphere storage of apple fruits. labels: #Cloning, Molecular#DNA, Complementary#Fruit#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Gene Silencing#Malus#Mutation#Plant Proteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Stress, Physiological#Temperature#Transcription Factors#Waxes'
b"Sleep loss causes profound cognitive impairments and increases the concentrations of adenosine and adenosine A1 receptors in specific regions of the brain. Time courses for performance impairment and recovery differ between acute and chronic sleep loss, but the physiological basis for these time courses is unknown. Adenosine has been implicated in pathways that generate sleepiness and cognitive impairments, but existing mathematical models of sleep and cognitive performance do not explicitly include adenosine. Here, we developed a novel receptor-ligand model of the adenosine system to test the hypothesis that changes in both adenosine and A1 receptor concentrations can capture changes in cognitive performance during acute sleep deprivation (one prolonged wake episode), chronic sleep restriction (multiple nights with insufficient sleep), and subsequent recovery. Parameter values were estimated using biochemical data and reaction time performance on the psychomotor vigilance test (PVT). The model closely fit group-average PVT data during acute sleep deprivation, chronic sleep restriction, and recovery. We tested the model's ability to reproduce timing and duration of sleep in a separate experiment where individuals were permitted to sleep for up to 14 hours per day for 28 days. The model accurately reproduced these data, and also correctly predicted the possible emergence of a split sleep pattern (two distinct sleep episodes) under these experimental conditions. Our findings provide a physiologically plausible explanation for observed changes in cognitive performance and sleep during sleep loss and recovery, as well as a new approach for predicting sleep and cognitive performance under planned schedules. labels: #Adenosine#Attention#Brain#Cognition#Cognition Disorders#Computer Simulation#Humans#Models, Neurological#Psychomotor Performance#Reaction Time#Recovery of Function#Sleep#Sleep Deprivation"
b'Micrococcal nuclease (MNase) has been widely used for analyses of nucleosome locations in many organisms. However, due to its sequence preference, the interpretations of the positions and occupancies of nucleosomes using MNase have remained controversial. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has also been utilized for analyses of MNase-digests, but some technical biases are commonly present in the NGS experiments. Here, we established a gel-based method to map nucleosome positions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, using isolated nuclei as the substrate for the histone H4 S47C-site-directed chemical cleavage in parallel with MNase digestion. The parallel mapping allowed us to compare the chemically and enzymatically cleaved sites by indirect end-labeling and primer extension mapping, and thus we could determine the nucleosome positions and the sizes of the nucleosome-free regions (or nucleosome-depleted regions) more accurately, as compared to nucleosome mapping by MNase alone. The analysis also revealed that the structural features of the nucleosomes flanked by the nucleosome-free region were different from those within regularly arrayed nucleosomes, showing that the structures and dynamics of individual nucleosomes strongly depend on their locations. Moreover, we demonstrated that the parallel mapping results were generally consistent with the previous genome-wide chemical mapping and MNase-Seq results. Thus, the gel-based parallel mapping will be useful for the analysis of a specific locus under various conditions. labels: #Aldose-Ketose Isomerases#Chromosome Mapping#DNA, Fungal#Genetic Loci#Hydroxyl Radical#Micrococcal Nuclease#Nucleosomes#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b"When ascending (descending) a slope, positive (negative) work must be performed to overcome changes in gravitational potential energy at the center of body mass (COM). This modifies the pendulum-like behavior of walking. The aim of this study is to analyze how energy exchange and mechanical work done vary within a step across slopes and speeds. Ten subjects walked on an instrumented treadmill at different slopes (from -9\xc2\xb0 to 9\xc2\xb0), and speeds (between 0.56 and 2.22 m s-1). From the ground reaction forces, we evaluated energy of the COM, recovery (i.e. the potential-kinetic energy transduction) and pendular energy savings (i.e. the theoretical reduction in work due to this recovered energy) throughout the step. When walking uphill as compared to level, pendular energy savings increase during the first part of stance (when the COM is lifted) and decreases during the second part. Conversely in downhill walking, pendular energy savings decrease during the first part of stance and increase during the second part (when the COM is lowered). In uphill and downhill walking, the main phase of external work occurs around double support. Uphill, the positive work phase is extended during the beginning of single support to raise the body. Downhill, the negative work phase starts before double support, slowing the downward velocity of the body. Changes of the pendulum-like behavior as a function of slope can be illustrated by tilting the 'classical compass model' backwards (uphill) or forwards (downhill). labels: #Energy Metabolism#Exercise Test#Humans#Male#Walking#Young Adult"
b'The role of river discharge, wind and tide on the extension and variability of the Tagus River plume was analyzed from 2003 to 2015. This study was performed combining daily images obtained from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor located onboard the Aqua and Terra satellites. Composites were generated by averaging pixels with the same forcing conditions. River discharge shows a strong relation with the extension of the Tagus plume. The plume grows with the increasing river discharge and express a two day lag caused by the long residence time of water within the estuary. The Tagus turbid plume was found to be smaller under northerly and easterly winds, than under southerly and westerly winds. It is suggested that upwelling favoring winds provoke the offshore movement of the plume material with a rapidly decrease in turbidity values whereas downwelling favoring winds retain plume material in the north coast close to the Tagus mouth. Eastern cross-shore (oceanward) winds spread the plume seaward and to the north following the coast geometry, whereas western cross-shore (landward) winds keep the plume material in both alongshore directions occupying a large part of the area enclosed by the bay. Low tides produce larger and more turbid plumes than high tides. In terms of fortnightly periodicity, the maximum plume extension corresponding to the highest turbidity is observed during and after spring tides. Minimum plume extension associated with the lowest turbidity occurs during and after neap tides. labels: #Droughts#Environmental Monitoring#Floods#Rivers#Satellite Imagery#Spain#Wind'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although the effect of weather and air pollution on the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has been investigated, results have remained inconsistent. The present study aimed to determine the seasonality of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage occurrence and mortality.METHODS: We used the National Inpatient Sample database to evaluate the effect of meteorological factors and air pollutants on patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in Korea between 2011 and 2014. Monthly variations in SAH occurrence and mortality were analyzed using locally weighted scatter plot smoothing curves. Multivariate Poisson generalized linear regression models were used to evaluate potential independent meteorological and pollutant variables associated with SAH occurrence and mortality.RESULTS: In total, 21,407 patients who underwent clip or coil treatment owing to aneurysmal SAH in Korea from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 2014, were included. The crude incidence rate of SAH in Korea was 10.5 per 100,000 people per year. An approximately 0.5% lower risk of SAH was observed per 1\xc2\xb0C increase in mean monthly temperature (relative risk, 0.995; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.992-0.997; p<0.001), while an approximately 2.3% higher risk of SAH was observed per 1\xc2\xb0C increase in mean monthly diurnal temperature.CONCLUSIONS: We showed distinct patterns of seasonal and monthly variation in the occurrence and mortality of SAH. Our findings suggest that meteorological factors may play an important role in monthly variations in the occurrence of aneurysmal SAH. labels: #Air Pollution#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Subarachnoid Hemorrhage#Temperature#Weather'
b'Hypertension is the most prevalent risk factor for new-onset atrial fibrillation (AF). But few studies have addressed the effect of statins on the incidence of this arrhythmia in patients with hypertension. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of statins on new-onset of this arrhythmia in a hypertensive population, accounting for AF risk. Data from the Information System for the Development of Research in Primary Care was used to recruit a retrospective cohort of \xe2\x89\xa555-year-old hypertensive individuals with no ischemic vascular disease, in 2006-2007, followed up through 2015. The effect of initiating statin treatment on new-onset atrial fibrillation was assessed with Cox proportional hazards models adjusted by the propensity score of receiving statin treatment, in the overall study population and stratified by AF risk. Of 100 276 included participants, 9814 initiated statin treatment. The AF incidence per 1000 person-years (95% confidence interval) was 12.5 (12.3-12.8). Statin use associated with a significant (9%) reduction in AF incidence. Differences in absolute AF incidence were higher in the highest AF risk subgroup, and the estimated number needed to treat to avoid one case was 720. The relative effect was poor, similar across groups, and non-significant, as was the association of statins with adverse effects. We found a limited protective effect of statins over new-onset AF in this hypertensive population with no ischemic vascular disease. If there is no further indication, hypertensive patients would not benefit from statin use solely for AF primary prevention. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Hypertension#Male#Retrospective Studies#Risk'
b'The effectiveness of cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells for treatment of cancers has long been appreciated. Here, we report for the first time that CIK cells can be applied to treat allergic airway inflammation. Adopting from an established protocol with some modifications, we generated CIK cells ex vivo from mouse T cells, and examined their effectiveness in treatment of allergic airway inflammation using the ovalbumin-induced model of allergic airway inflammation. Based upon evaluation of bronchoalveolar lavage cellularity, T helper type2 cytokine levels and lung histology, all of which are important parameters for determining the severity of allergic airway inflammation, diseased mice treated with CIK cells showed significant reductions in all the parameters without any obvious adverse effects. Interestingly, the observed effects were comparable to those treated with dexamethasone. Thus, our study provides a novel application of CIK cells in treatment of allergic airway inflammation. labels: #Animals#Asthma#Cell- and Tissue-Based Therapy#Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells#Cytokines#Eosinophils#Goblet Cells#Hyperplasia#Hypersensitivity#Killer Cells, Natural#Male#Mice#Th1 Cells'
b'More than 1,500 fish species are hermaphroditic, but no hermaphroditic lineage appears to be evolutionarily ancient in fishes. Thus, whether more than one sex at a time was present during the evolutionary shift from gonochorism to hermaphroditism in fishes is an intriguing question. Ectopic oocytes were created in the ovotestes of protandrous black porgy via the withdrawal of estradiol (E2) administration. These ectopic oocytes reprogrammed the surrounding cells, which changed from Sertoli cells to follicle-like cells. We observed that gdf9 and bmp15 expression was localized in the primary oocytes and gradually decreased after oocytes entered a secondary oocyte stage. Robust expression of gdf9 and bmp15 in ectopic oocytes was associated with the surrounding Sertoli cells. However, blocking Cyp19a1a activity and increasing androgen levels did not stimulate the expression of gdf9 and bmp15. Thus, the robust gdf9 and bmp15 expression was not related to the inappropriate male microenvironment. Furthermore, in vitro data demonstrated that gdf9 and bmp15 were not downstream genes of Figla signaling. Therefore, our results suggest that there are two independent mechanisms, a Figla-dependent pathway and a Figla-independent pathway, by which oocyte-surrounding cells are altered from a male somatic fate to a female somatic fate. This functional switch might clarify how oocytes created an appropriate microenvironment during the transition from the ancient gonochorism to the present hermaphroditism. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Bone Morphogenetic Protein 15#Estradiol#Female#Fish Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation#Growth Differentiation Factor 9#Hermaphroditic Organisms#Male#Oocytes#Ovary#Perciformes#Sertoli Cells#Signal Transduction#Testis#Vitellogenesis'
b"Serine-proteases are important players in the pathogenesis of asthma, promoting inflammation and tissue remodeling. It's also known that many serine protease inhibitors display immunomodulatory properties. TgPI-1 is a Toxoplasma gondii protein that exhibits broad spectrum inhibitory activity against serine proteases. In view of the increased prevalence of atopic disorders and the need to develop new treatment strategies we sought to investigate the potential of TgPI-1 for treating respiratory allergies. For this purpose, we developed a therapeutic experimental model. BALB/c mice were rendered allergic by intraperitoneal ovalbumin-alum sensitization and airway-challenged. Once the asthmatic phenotype was achieved, mice were intranasally treated with rTgPI-1 alone or with a mixture of rTgPI-1 and ovalbumin (OVA). A week later mice were given a secondary aerosol challenge. Treatment with rTgPI-1 alone or co-administered with OVA diminished bronchoalveolar eosinophilia, mucus production and peribronchial lung infiltration. This effect was accompanied by a lung resistance reduction of 26.3% and 50.3% respectively. Both treatments resulted in the production of lower levels of IL-4, IL-5, IFN-\xce\xb3 and regulatory IL-10 by thoracic lymph node cells stimulated with OVA. Interestingly, significant decreases in OVA specific IgE and T cell proliferation, and increases in FoxP3+ T cells at local and systemic levels were only detected when the inhibitor was administered along with OVA. These results show that both rTgPI-1 treatments reduced asthma hallmarks. However, co-administration of the inhibitor with the allergen was more effective. Hence, rTgPI-1 emerges as a novel adjuvant candidate for asthma treatment. labels: #Allergens#Animals#Antibodies, Protozoan#Antibody Specificity#Asthma#Cell Proliferation#Cytokines#Drug Interactions#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Ovalbumin#Recombinant Proteins#Serine Proteinase Inhibitors#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Toxoplasma"
b'Acute inflammation is an immediate response to infection and injury characterised by the influx of granulocytes followed by phagocytosing mononuclear phagocytes. Provided the antigen is cleared and the immune system of the host is fully functional, the acute inflammatory response will resolve. Until now it is considered that resolution then leads back to homeostasis, the physiological state tissues experienced before inflammation occurred. Using a human model of acute inflammation driven by intradermal UV killed Escherichia coli, we found that bacteria and granulocyte clearance as well as pro-inflammatory cytokine catabolism occurred by 72h. However, following a lag phase of about 4 days there was an increase in numbers of memory T cells and CD163+ macrophage at the post-resolution site up to day 17 as well as increased biosynthesis of cyclooxygenase-derived prostanoids and DHA-derived D series resolvins. Inhibiting post-resolution prostanoids using naproxen showed that numbers of tissue memory CD4 cells were under the endogenous control of PGE2, which exerts its suppressive effects on T cell proliferation via the EP4 receptor. In addition, we re-challenged the post-resolution site with a second injection of E. coli, which when compared to saline controls resulted in primarily a macrophage-driven response with comparatively fewer PMNs; the macrophage-dominated response was reversed by cyclooxygenase inhibition. Re-challenge experiments were also carried out in mice where we obtained similar results as in humans. Therefore, we report that acute inflammatory responses in both humans and rodents do not revert back to homeostasis, but trigger a hitherto unappreciated sequence of immunological events that dictate subsequent immune response to infection. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Animals#Antigens, CD#Antigens, Differentiation, Myelomonocytic#Cell Count#Cell Proliferation#Dinoprostone#Escherichia coli#Female#Humans#Inflammation#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Microbial Viability#Middle Aged#Receptors, Cell Surface#T-Lymphocytes#Ultraviolet Rays#Young Adult'
b"Copper, as the third most abundant transition metal ions of human, plays an essential role in the redox reaction, signal transduction, hematopoiesis, and other physiological processes. Abnormal content of copper ions in the body will cause some diseases such as anemia, coronary heart disease, Menkes' syndrome. In this article, a new fluorescence probe L for Cu2+ was designed and synthetized by using 4-bromo-1,8 naphthalene anhydride and 2-thiophene formaldehyde as raw materials. Fluorescent probe L itself exhibited strong fluorescence, upon the addition of Cu2+ ions, the fluorescence was quenched. The fluorescent detection limit for Cu2+ ions was determined to be 1.8 \xce\xbcM based on a 3\xce\xb4/S method. UV-vis absorption and fluorescence spectra indicated that probe L showed good selectivity and sensitivity for Cu2+, and this selectivity was not interfered by other metal ions and anions. Further cell fluorescence imaging experiments indicated that the probe L had potential to be used to examine copper ions in vivo. labels: #Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Copper#Drug Design#Fluorescent Dyes#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Limit of Detection#Naphthalenes"
b"OBJECTIVE: To examine trends in patient experience and consistency between hospital trusts and settings.METHODS: Observational study of publicly available patient experience surveys of three hospital settings (inpatients (IP), accident and emergency (A&E) and outpatients (OP)) of 130 acute NHS hospital trusts in England between 2004/05 and 2014/15.RESULTS: Overall patient experience has been good, showing modest improvements over time across the three hospital settings. Individual questions with the biggest improvement across all three settings are cleanliness (IP: +7.1, A&E: +6.5, OP: +4.7) and information about danger signals (IP: +3.8, A&E: +3.9, OP: +4.0). Trust performance has been consistent over time: 71.5% of trusts ranked in the same cluster for more than five years. There is some consistency across settings, especially between outpatients and inpatients. The lowest-scoring questions, regarding information at discharge, are the same in all years and all settings.CONCLUSIONS: The greatest improvement across all three settings has been for cleanliness, which has seen national policies and targets. Information about danger signals and medication side-effects showed least consistency across settings and scores have remained low over time, despite information about danger signals showing a big increase in score. Patient experience of aspects of access and waiting have declined, as has experience of discharge delay, likely reflecting known increases in pressure on England's NHS. labels: #England#Hospitals#Humans#National Health Programs#Patient Satisfaction#Trust"
b'In standard cage (SC) raised mice, experience-dependent ocular dominance (OD) plasticity in the primary visual cortex (V1) rapidly declines with age: in postnatal day 25-35 (critical period) mice, 4 days of monocular deprivation (MD) are sufficient to induce OD-shifts towards the open eye; thereafter, 7 days of MD are needed. Beyond postnatal day 110, even 14 days of MD failed to induce OD-plasticity in mouse V1. In contrast, mice raised in a so-called "enriched environment" (EE), exhibit lifelong OD-plasticity. EE-mice have more voluntary physical exercise (running wheels), and experience more social interactions (bigger housing groups) and more cognitive stimulation (regularly changed labyrinths or toys). Whether experience-dependent shifts of V1-activation happen faster in EE-mice and how long the plasticity promoting effect would persist after transferring EE-mice back to SCs has not yet been investigated. To this end, we used intrinsic signal optical imaging to visualize V1-activation i) before and after MD in EE-mice of different age groups (from 1-9 months), and ii) after transferring mice back to SCs after postnatal day 130. Already after 2 days of MD, and thus much faster than in SC-mice, EE-mice of all tested age groups displayed a significant OD-shift towards the open eye. Transfer of EE-mice to SCs immediately abolished OD-plasticity: already after 1 week of SC-housing and MD, OD-shifts could no longer be visualized. In an attempt to rescue abolished OD-plasticity of these mice, we either administered the anti-depressant fluoxetine (in drinking water) or supplied a running wheel in the SCs. OD-plasticity was only rescued for the running wheel- mice. Altogether our results show that raising mice in less deprived environments like large EE-cages strongly accelerates experience-dependent changes in V1-activation compared to the impoverished SC-raising. Furthermore, preventing voluntary physical exercise of EE-mice in adulthood immediately precludes OD-shifts in V1. labels: #Aging#Animal Husbandry#Animals#Dominance, Ocular#Environment#Female#Fluoxetine#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Neuronal Plasticity#Serotonin Uptake Inhibitors#Time Factors#Visual Cortex'
b"BACKGROUND: The American Heart Association released 7 modifiable factors, Life's Simple 7, that are expected to improve cardiovascular health (CVH), but their contributions to ischemic heart disease (IHD) in the general Australians are not well clarified.METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study based on 7499 adults (\xe2\x89\xa518 years) who have tested for total cholesterol and fasting plasma glucose as part of 2011-12 Australian Health Survey. Poisson regression analyses were used to estimate the incidence rate ratios and population attributable fractions of those factors to IHD prevalence. Participants were classified into three CVH groups based on the number of ideal metrics: inadequate (0-2), average (3-4), and optimal (5-7). Logistic regression analyses were performed to elucidate the relationship between overall CVH and IHD prevalence.RESULTS: 357 participants were self-reported having IHD condition, with a weighted prevalence of 3.3%. Physical inactivity, elevated body mass index (BMI) and total cholesterol (TC) were independently associated with IHD. Compared to the inadequate category, participants in the optimal and average categories have a 78% [adjusted odds ratio (OR), 0.22; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.03-1.96] and a 45% (adjusted OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.39-0.77) lower IHD risk. One more optimal metric was associated with an 18% lower IHD risk (adjusted OR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.71-0.93).CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that physical inactivity, raised BMI and elevated TC were independent modifiable risk factors of IHD in the general Australian population. The improvement of overall CVH may also reduce IHD risk among the general Australian adults. labels: #Adult#Australia#Coronary Artery Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors"
b"Academic dishonesty has been and continues to be a major problem in America's schools and universities. Such dishonesty is especially important in high schools, where grades earned directly impact the academic careers of students for many years to come. The rising pressure to get the best grades in school, get into the best college, and land the best paying job is a cycle that has made academic dishonesty increase exponentially. Thus, finding the widespread roots of cheating is more important now than ever. In this study, we focus on how societal norms and interactions with peers influence lying about scores in order to obtain a benefit in a high school population. We show that (1) the societal norms that go hand in hand with test-taking in school, as administered by a teacher, significantly dampen small-scale dishonesty, perhaps suggesting that context-dependent rewards offset cheating; (2) providing reminders of societal norms via pre-reported average scores leads to more truthful self-reporting of honesty; (3) the matrix search task was shown to not depend on class difficulty, confirming its effectiveness as an appropriate method for this study; (4) males seem to cheat more than females; and (5) teenagers are more dishonest earlier in the day. We suggest that students understand that cheating is wrong, an idea backed up by the literature, and that an environment which clearly does not condone dishonesty helps dampen widespread cheating in certain instances. This dampening effect seems to be dependent on the reward that students thought they would get for exaggerating their performance. labels: #Adult#Deception#Female#Humans#Male#Reward#United States#Universities#Young Adult"
b"Almost 1600 individuals from the Polish population were recruited to this study. Among them 319 were fertile couples, 289 were recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) couples, and 131 were in the group of recurrent implantation failure (RIF) following in vitro fertilization. The aim of this study was to evaluate the MTHFR c.c.677 C>T and c.c.1298 A>C polymorphisms' association with RSA and RIF. We used PCR-RFLP with HinfI (677 C>T) and MboII (1298 A>C) digestion. We observed a protective effect of the female AC genotype (OR = 0.64, p = 0.01) and the C allele (AC+CC genotypes; OR = 0.65, p = 0.009) against RSA. Moreover, 1298 AA/677 CT women were more frequent in RSA (31.14%) and RIF (25.20%) groups in comparison to fertile women (22.88%), although this difference was significant only in the case of RSA (p = 0.022, OR = 1.52). Male combined genotype analysis revealed no association with reproductive failure of their partners. Nevertheless, the female/male combination AA/AC of the 1298 polymorphism was more frequent in RSA couples (p = 0.049, OR = 1.49). However, the significant results became insignificant after Bonferroni correction. In addition, analysis of haplotypes showed significantly higher frequency of the C/C haplotype (1298 C/677 C) in the female control group than in the female RSA group (p = 0.03, OR = 0.77). Moreover, the association between elevated homocysteine (Hcy) level in plasma of RSA and RIF women and MTHFR polymorphisms was investigated but did not reveal significant differences. In conclusion, for clinical practice, it is better to check the homocysteine level in plasma and, if the Hcy level is increased, to recommend patients to take folic acid supplements rather than undergo screening of MTHFR for 1298 A>C and 677 C>T polymorphisms. labels: #Abortion, Habitual#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (NADPH2)#Middle Aged#Poland#Polymorphism, Genetic#Pregnancy"
b'BACKGROUND: According to the Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey 2014, only approximately 37 percent of women deliver in a health facility. Among the eight administrative divisions of Bangladesh, the facility delivery rate is lowest in the Sylhet division (22.6 percent) where we assessed the effect of integrated supply- and demand-side interventions on the facility-based delivery rate.METHODS: Population-based cohort data of pregnant women from an ongoing maternal and newborn health improvement study being conducted in a population of ~120,000 in Sylhet district were used. The study required collection and processing of biological samples immediately after delivery. Therefore, the project assembled various strategies to increase institutional delivery rates. The supply-side intervention included capacity expansion of the health facilities through service provider refresher training, 24/7 service coverage, additions of drugs and supplies, and incentives to the providers. The demand-side component involved financial incentives to cover expenses, a provision of emergency transport, and referral support to a tertiary-level hospital. We conducted a before-and-after observational study to assess the impact of the intervention in a total of 1,861 deliveries between December 2014 and November 2016.RESULTS: Overall, implementation of the intervention package was associated with 52.6 percentage point increase in the proportions of facility-based deliveries from a baseline rate of 25.0 percent to 77.6 percent in 24 months. We observed lower rates of institutional deliveries when only supply-side interventions were implemented. The proportion rose to 47.1 percent and continued increasing when the project emphasized addressing the financial barriers to accessing obstetric care in a health facility.CONCLUSIONS: An integrated supply- and demand-side intervention was associated with a substantial increase in institutional delivery. The package can be tailored to identify which combination of interventions may produce the optimum result and be scaled. Rigorous implementation research studies are needed to draw confident conclusions and to provide information about the costs, feasibility for scale-up and sustainability. labels: #Bangladesh#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Maternal Health Services#Pregnancy#Rural Health Services'
b'In order to study the long-term stability of fin whale (Balaenoptera physalus) singing behavior, the frequency and inter-pulse interval of fin whale 20 Hz vocalizations were observed over 10 years from 2003-2013 from bottom mounted hydrophones and seismometers in the northeast Pacific Ocean. The instrument locations extended from 40\xc2\xb0N to 48\xc2\xb0N and 130\xc2\xb0W to 125\xc2\xb0W with water depths ranging from 1500-4000 m. The inter-pulse interval (IPI) of fin whale song sequences was observed to increase at a rate of 0.54 seconds/year over the decade of observation. During the same time period, peak frequency decreased at a rate of 0.17 Hz/year. Two primary call patterns were observed. During the earlier years, the more commonly observed pattern had a single frequency and single IPI. In later years, a doublet pattern emerged, with two dominant frequencies and IPIs. Many call sequences in the intervening years appeared to represent a transitional state between the two patterns. The overall trend was consistent across the entire geographical span, although some regional differences exist. Understanding changes in acoustic behavior over long time periods is needed to help establish whether acoustic characteristics can be used to help determine population identity in a widely distributed, difficult to study species such as the fin whale. labels: #Animals#Fin Whale#Pacific Ocean#Sound Spectrography#Vocalization, Animal'
b'AIM: To describe the prevalence of Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) in a random population sample and to evaluate its relationship with Mediterranean diet and with other potential cardiovascular risk factors such as serum uric acid and pulse pressure in individuals ranged 45 to 74 years.METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis of 1568 subjects (mean age 6.5 years, 43% males), randomly selected from the population. A fasting blood sample was obtained to determine glucose, lipids, and HbA1C levels. An oral glucose tolerance test was performed in non-diabetic subjects. PAD was evaluated by ankle-brachial index and/or having a prior diagnosis.RESULTS: PAD prevalence was 3.81% (95% CI, 2.97-4.87) for all participants. In men, PAD prevalence was significantly higher than in women [5.17% (95% CI, 3.74-7.11) vs. 2.78% (95% CI, 1.89-4.07); p = 0.014]. Serum uric acid in the upper quartile was associated with the highest odds ratio (OR) of PAD (for uric acid>6.1 mg/dl, OR = 4.31; 95% CI, 1.49-12.44). The remaining variables more strongly associated with PAD were: Heart rate>90 bpm (OR = 4.16; 95%CI, 1.62-10.65), pulse pressure in the upper quartile (\xe2\x89\xa5 54 mmHg) (OR = 3.82; 95%CI, 1.50-9.71), adherence to Mediterranean diet (OR = 2.73; 95% CI, 1.48-5.04), and former smoker status (OR = 2.04; 95%CI, 1.00-4.16).CONCLUSIONS: Our results show the existence of a low prevalence of peripheral artery disease in a population aged 45-74 years. Serum uric acid, pulse pressure and heart rate>90 bpm were strongly associated with peripheral artery disease. The direct association between Mediterranean diet and peripheral artery disease that we have found should be evaluated through a follow-up study under clinical practice conditions. labels: #Aged#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Peripheral Arterial Disease#Prediabetic State'
b'The purpose of this study is to compare the clinicopathological characteristics and outcomes of esophageal foreign body (FB) ingestion in adults between weekdays and holidays. This is a retrospective study including 1058 patients with esophageal FB ingestion from 2012 to 2016. Patient characteristics, the types and locations of FB, and clinical outcomes were compared between patients on weekdays and holidays. Furthermore, independent risk factors of complication on weekdays and holidays respectively were evaluated. The locations of FB, underlying diseases, and complications significantly differed between weekdays and holidays groups, while no difference was found in the types of FB. Patients got higher percentage of erosion complication on holidays than that on weekdays (60.8% vs 47.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that jujube shell was a significant predictor of complication on weekdays (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). However, complication was significantly associated with nonfood bolus FB ingestion on holidays (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Our data suggest that there were different clinicopathological characteristics of FB ingestion between weekdays and holidays, and more patients got complications on holidays. On holidays, a latex protector hood or an overtube should be applied to patients who swallowed nonfood bolus in order to reduce esophageal mucosal damage. labels: #Adult#Eating#Esophagus#Female#Foreign Bodies#Holidays#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma (PHC) is a rare form of pancreatic malignancy mimicking hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in morphology, immunohistochemistry, and behavior. PHC usually has an aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis. Effective treatment strategies are lacking due to poor understanding and extreme rarity of such kind of malignancy. PATIENT CONCERNS:: we present the case of a 75-year-old man with tumors in the liver and the tail of pancreas that were detected in a routine health check-up.DIAGNOSES: Pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma with liver metastasis INTERVENTIONS:: The patient was treated by neoadjuvant modified-FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy and subsequent resection of both the primary pancreatic tumor and the sole liver metastasis.OUTCOMES: Pathology findings confirmed complete pathological response of the liver metastatic tumor and partial response of the primary pancreatic tumor to neoadjuvant mFOLFIRINOX. Adjuvant chemotherapy with mFOLFIRINOX was given and until now the patient has a progression-free survival of 13 months after diagnosis.LESSONS: PHC are often associated with early liver metastasis and a poor prognosis, surgical resection combined with neoadjuvant and adjuvant FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy is proved to be efficient in such kind of malignancy, even with liver metastasis. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasms, Multiple Primary#Pancreatectomy#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Splenectomy#Treatment Outcome'
b'The risk calculator of the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) has been shown to be useful in predicting postoperative complications. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the predictive value of the ACS-NSQIP calculator in geriatric patients undergoing lumbar surgery.A total of 242 geriatric patients who underwent lumbar surgery between January 2014 and December 2016 were included. Preoperative clinical information was retrospectively reviewed and entered into the ACS-NSQIP calculator. The predictive value of the ACS-NSQIP model was assessed using the Hosmer-Lemeshow test, Brier score (B), and receiver operating characteristics (ROC, also referred C-statistic) curve analysis. Additional risk factors were calculated as surgeon-adjusted risk including previous cardiac event and cerebrovascular disease.Preoperative risk factors including age (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), functional independence (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), American Society of Anesthesiologists class (ASA class, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), dyspnea (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), dialysis (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.049), previous cardiac event (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and history of cerebrovascular disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0) were significantly associated with a greater incidence of postoperative complications. Observed and predicted incidence of postoperative complications was 43.8% and 13.7% (\xc2\xb15.9%) (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01), respectively. The Hosmer-Lemeshow test demonstrated adequate predictive accuracy of the ACS-NSQIP model for all complications. However, Brier score showed that the ACS-NSQIP model could not accurately predict risk of all (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.321) or serious (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.241) complications, although it accurately predicted the risk of death (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.0072); this was supported by ROC curve analysis. The ROC curve also showed that the model had high sensitivity and specificity for predicting renal failure and readmission.The ACS-NSQIP surgical risk calculator is not an accurate tool for the prediction of postoperative complications in geriatric Chinese patients undergoing lumbar surgery. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Geriatric Assessment#Humans#Incidence#Laminectomy#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity#Spinal Stenosis'
b'RATIONALE: Hypoglycemic encephalopathy is a metabolic encephalopathy. Clinical risk is mixed with acute cerebrovascular disease, so it is critical to identify and make the correct diagnosis of the disease as early as possible.PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report a case of a 51-year-old male patient with hypoglycemic encephalopathy, who presented confusion and unconsciousness for 1 day.DIAGNOSES: In addition to blood-related indicators and medical histories, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), especially diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), can be valuable to the diagnosis of hypoglycemic encephalopathy, which showed diffuse high-signal intensity in the cerebral cortex, and also the hippocampus, head of the caudate nucleus, the lentiform nucleus, and corpus callosum.INTERVENTIONS: Intravenous glucose injection and drip was performed repeatedly. The blood glucose levels were gradually corrected, and the resulting blood glucose was 6.5\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L.OUTCOMES: The prognosis depends on the degree of hypoglycemia, duration, and condition of the organism. Due to the long duration of hypoglycemia, unfortunately, the patient died.LESSONS: It is critical to diagnose hypoglycemic encephalopathy as early as possible. MRI reveals diffuse abnormal intensity in the cortex and basal ganglia region. DWI using high b values provides important information for diagnosis. labels: #Brain Diseases, Metabolic#Cerebral Cortex#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Fatal Outcome#Hippocampus#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Male#Middle Aged'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Diarrhea is a common complication of enteral nutrition (EN), which affects recovery and prolongs the length of hospital stay (LOHS). To investigate the effect of fiber and probiotics in reducing diarrhea associated with EN in postoperative patients with gastric cancer (GC), the authors designed this prospective randomized-controlled trial.METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: This study included 120 patients with GC, and the patients were classified into 3 groups via random picking of envelopes: fiber-free nutrition formula (FF group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40), fiber-enriched nutrition formula (FE group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40), and fiber- and probiotic-enriched nutrition formula (FEP group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40). All patients were given EN formulas for 7 consecutive days after surgery.RESULTS: The number of diarrhea cases was higher in the FF group than in the FE group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.007). The FEP group had a lower number of diarrhea cases compared with the FE group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). Patients in the FE group had a significantly shorter first flatus time than the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002). However, no significant difference was observed between the FE group and FEP group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.30). Intestinal disorders were similar between the FE group and FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.38). The FEP group had a lower number of intestinal disorder cases than the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). LOHS in the FE and FEP groups was shorter than that in the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). However, no significant difference was observed between the FE and FEP groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.28). In addition, no significant difference was observed between the 3 groups in terms of total lymphocyte count, albumin, prealbumin, and transferrin levels on day 7 of enteral feeding.CONCLUSIONS: The combination of fiber and probiotics was significantly effective in treating diarrhea that is associated with EN in postoperative patients with GC. labels: #Aged#Diarrhea#Dietary Fiber#Enteral Nutrition#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Probiotics#Prospective Studies#Stomach Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b"Local anesthesia is routinely recommended for percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic discectomy (PTED). However, the intense intraoperative pain remains a serious problem. The purpose of the current study is to find a safe and effective method to alleviate the intense pain during PTED for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) under local anesthesia.This study retrospectively analyzed 63 LDH patients who accepted PTED under local anesthesia. Thirty-one patients received intramuscular injection of morphine before PTED, while the other 32 were not. The 10 points visual analogue scale (VAS) was used to assess the patients' maximum leg and back pain. Patients were asked to grade their experiences of surgery and anesthesia on a 5-point Likert-type scale after the surgery. Modified Mac Nab Criteria were used to evaluate the surgical outcomes after 3-month follow-up.The intraoperative VAS scores of patients who accepted preoperative intervention decreased significantly. The postoperative VAS scores of both groups showed no significance. Patients who received preoperative intervention reported a higher subjective satisfaction rate with the surgery experience. According to the Modified Mac Nab criteria, the surgical outcomes of both groups were similar through the 3-month follow-up. After injection of morphine, 4 patients complained nausea and 2 patients experienced vomiting.Preoperative intramuscular injection of morphine could reduce the patients' pain during the PTED surgery and improve the patients' satisfaction without affecting the surgical outcome. Except for a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting, this method is relatively safe and convenient. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthesia, Local#Diskectomy, Percutaneous#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Injections, Intramuscular#Intervertebral Disc Displacement#Intraoperative Complications#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Morphine#Pain#Patient Satisfaction#Preoperative Care#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Visual Analog Scale#Young Adult"
b'In acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE), right ventricular pressure overload impairs right-sided cardiac conduction and repolarization. We hypothesized that if heterogeneity of repolarization between right and left ventricles occurs in acute PTE, there would be the difference of repolarization between them. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the diagnostic value of corrected QT interval (QTc) difference between leads V1 and V6 (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) in patients with acute PTE.A total of 89 patients with suspected acute PTE who underwent computed tomographic angiography (CTA) were enrolled from January to December 2015. PTE was identified by CTA. We compared electrocardiographic (ECG) parameters, especially QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) between patients with PTE and those without PTE.Acute PTE was finally diagnosed in 45 patients. Clinical situations including the chief complaint were not different between PTE and non-PTE groups. S1Q3T3, a traditional ECG marker, had no diagnostic value for acute PTE. Patients with PTE had a significantly longer mean QTc in V1 (454.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a44.3 vs 417.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a31.3\xe2\x80\x8ams, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and larger QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) (34.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a30.5 vs -12.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.6\xe2\x80\x8ams, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) than non-PTE controls. QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) was negative in all patients without PTE. PTE patients had a higher prevalence of T wave inversion in leads III (51.1% vs 29.5%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038) and V1 (82.2% vs 38.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). A QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) of \xe2\x89\xa520\xe2\x80\x8ams identified PTE with 82.2% sensitivity, 100.0% specificity, and 100.0% positive predictive value.QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) had an excellent diagnostic value for differentiating patients with and without acute PTE. labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Pulmonary Embolism#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'RATIONALE: The first metatarsophalangeal joint (MTP1) is the most frequent site of gouty tophi. We report an unusual case with a giant skin-perforating tophi. This is the first case of gouty tophi at MTP1 which accepts surgical debulking and amputation.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 42-year-old man presented with a seven-year history of gout and a giant tophi at MTP1. The patient was referred to hospital due to persistent pain and ulcerations on the surface of the left MTP1. This rounded, giant, swelling, tophaceous tophi severely interfered with his normal walking.DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with gouty arthritis seven years ago, and did not receive regular anti-gout treatments.OUTCOMES: Biochemical examination showed he had raised serum uric acid (SUA, 11.92\xe2\x80\x8amg/dl) and creatinine (258\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcmol/l). There was a severe joint destruction of MTP1 by X-ray examination. We controlled the skin infection by sulbenicillin. He was given febuxostat to reduce SUA. After 3 months of treatment, SUA fell to 6.8\xe2\x80\x8amg/dl. Then we performed surgical debulking of MTP1 and amputation of hallux. Surgical operations obviously relieved the pain, and improved the function of his left foot. The visual closure after amputation was good.CONCLUSION: Surgical amputation of the gout lesion at MTP1 maximized the function, and reduced the pain of this patient. In the case of giant tophi with severe gouty arthritis or skin infections, surgical decisions need to weigh gains and losses carefully. labels: #Adult#Amputation#Arthritis, Gouty#Creatinine#Humans#Male#Metatarsophalangeal Joint#Uric Acid'
b"This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of 3 surgical procedures for Spontaneous Supratentorial Intracerebral Hemorrhage (SICH).A total of 63 patients with SICH were randomized into 3 groups. Group A (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a21) underwent craniotomy surgery, group B (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22) underwent burr hole, urokinase infusion and catheter drainage, and group C (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a20) underwent neuroendoscopic surgery. The hematoma evacuation rate of the operation was analyzed by 3D Slice software and the average surgery time, visualization during operation, decompressive effect, mortality, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) improvement, complications include rebleeding, pneumonia, intracranial infection were also compared among 3 groups.All procedures were successfully completed and the hematoma evacuation rate was significant differences among 3 groups which were 79.8%, 43.1%, 89.3% respectively (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01), and group C was the highest group. Group B was smallest traumatic one and shared the shortest operation time, but for the lack of hemostasis, it also the highest rebleeding group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). Although there were different in complications, but there was no significant in pneumonia, intracranial infection, GCS improvement and mortality rate.All these 3 methods had its own advantages and shortcomings, and every approach had its indications for SICH. Although for neuroendoscopic technical's minimal invasive, direct vision, effectively hematoma evacuation rate, and the relatively optimistic result, it might be a more promising approach for SICH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cerebral Hemorrhage#Craniotomy#Drainage#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hematoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroendoscopy#Operative Time#Random Allocation#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'The predictive factors associated with neck pain remain unclear. We conducted a cross-sectional study to assess predictive factors, especially Modic changes (MCs), associated with the intensity and duration of neck pain in patients with cervical disc degenerative disease.We retrospectively reviewed patients in our hospital from January 2013 to December 2016. Severe neck pain (SNP) and persistent neck pain (PNP) were the 2 main outcomes, and were assessed based on the numerical rating scale (NRS). Basic data, and also imaging data, were collected and analyzed as potential predictive factors. Univariate analysis and multiple logistic regression analysis were performed to assess the predictive factors for neck pain.In all, 381 patients (193 males and 188 females) with cervical degenerative disease were included in our study. The number of patients with SNP and PNP were 94 (24.67%) and 109 (28.61%), respectively. The NRS of neck pain in patients with type 1 MCs was significantly higher than type 2 MCs (4.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.9 vs 3.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.1; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004). The multivariate logistic analysis showed that kyphosis curvature (odds ratio [OR] 1.082, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.044-1.112), spondylolisthesis (OR 1.339, 95% CI 1.226-1.462), and annular tear (OR 1.188, 95% CI 1.021-1.382) were factors associated with SNP, whereas kyphosis curvature (OR 1.568, 95% CI 1.022-2.394), spondylolisthesis (OR 1.486, 95% CI 1.082-2.041), and MCs (OR 1.152, 95% CI 1.074-1.234) were associated with PNP.We concluded that kyphosis curvature, spondylolisthesis, and annular tear are associated with SNP, whereas kyphosis curvature, spondylolisthesis, and MCs are associated with PNP. This study supports the view that MCs can lead to a long duration of neck pain. labels: #Adult#Biomechanical Phenomena#Cervical Vertebrae#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Intervertebral Disc Degeneration#Kyphosis#Logistic Models#Lordosis#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neck Pain#Pain Measurement#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Spinal Diseases#Spondylolisthesis'
b"RATIONALE: Glucagonoma and pancreatic serous oligocystic adenoma (SOA) are rare neuroendocrine and exocrine tumors of the pancreas, respectively. The coexistence of glucagonoma syndrome (GS) and SOA is a rare clinical condition and has not yet been reported. Additionally, necrolytic migratory erythema (NME), a hallmark clinical sign of GS, is often misdiagnosed as other skin lesions by clinicians due to their lack of related knowledge, which delays diagnosis of GS and thus exacerbates the prognosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 50-year-old male patient was admitted to our department because he presented with diabetes mellitus and a recurrent ulcerated skin rash. Prior to the accurate diagnosis, the skin manifestation was considered to be diabetic dermopathy.DIAGNOSES: The patient's fasting serum glucagon level was up to 871.5\xe2\x80\x8apg/mL. A biopsy of the pancreatic tumor revealed a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, and immunoperoxidase staining revealed glucagon-positive cells. In addition, the histological examination of the pancreatic cystic lesions showed typical features of SOA.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received a pancreaticoduodenal resection and radiofrequency ablation for the hepatic nodular lesion.OUTCOMES: One week after surgery, the glucagon concentration decreased to near normal levels. The cutaneous lesions spontaneously resolved within 4 weeks after surgery.LESSONS: Because almost all glucagonomas are malignant or have malignant potential, their early recognition and correct diagnosis are very important for a better prognosis, especially in cases with NME as the only manifestation during the development of glucagonomas. It is therefore imperative that clinicians recognize NME early to make an accurate diagnosis. labels: #Cystadenoma, Serous#Diabetes Complications#Diabetes Mellitus#Exanthema#Glucagonoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Necrolytic Migratory Erythema#Pancreatic Neoplasms"
b'BACKGROUND: Stunting is the most prevalent manifestation of childhood malnutrition. To characterize factors that contribute to stunting in resource-poor settings, we studied a priori selected biological and social factors collected longitudinally in a cohort of newborns.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We enrolled 1,868 children across 7 resource-poor settings in Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Nepal, Peru, South Africa, and Tanzania shortly after birth and followed them for 24 months between 2 November 2009 and 28 February 2014. We collected longitudinal anthropometry, sociodemographic factors, maternal-reported illnesses, and antibiotic use; child feeding practices; dietary intake starting at 9 months; and longitudinal blood, urine, and stool samples to investigate non-diarrheal enteropathogens, micronutrients, gut inflammation and permeability, and systemic inflammation. We categorized length-for-age Z-scores into 3 groups (not stunted, \xe2\x89\xa5-1; at risk,<-1 to -2; and stunted,<-2), and used multivariable ordinal logistic regression to model the cumulative odds of being in a lower length-for-age category (at risk or stunted). A total of 1,197 children with complete longitudinal data were available for analysis. The prevalence of having a length-for-age Z-score below -1 increased from 43% (range 37%-47% across sites) shortly after birth (mean 7.7 days post-delivery, range 0 to 17 days) to 74% (16%-96%) at 24 months. The prevalence of stunting increased 3-fold during this same time period. Factors that contributed to the odds of being in a lower length-for-age category at 24 months were lower enrollment weight-for-age (interquartile cumulative odds ratio = 1.82, 95% CI 1.49-2.23), shorter maternal height (2.38, 1.89-3.01), higher number of enteropathogens in non-diarrheal stools (1.36, 1.07-1.73), lower socioeconomic status (1.75, 1.20-2.55), and lower percent of energy from protein (1.39, 1.13-1.72). Site-specific analyses suggest that reported associations were similar across settings. While loss to follow-up and missing data are inevitable, some study sites had greater loss to follow-up and more missing data than others, which may limit the generalizability of the findings.CONCLUSIONS: Neonatal and maternal factors were early determinants of lower length-for-age, and their contribution remained important throughout the first 24 months of life, whereas the average number of enteropathogens in non-diarrheal stools, socioeconomic status, and dietary intake became increasingly important contributors by 24 months relative to neonatal and maternal factors. labels: #Age Factors#Anthropometry#Bangladesh#Body Height#Brazil#Child, Preschool#Demography#Developing Countries#Eating#Environment#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#India#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Maternal Health#Nepal#Nutrition Assessment#Peru#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Socioeconomic Factors#South Africa#Tanzania'
b'How neuronal diversity emerges from complex patterns of gene expression remains poorly understood. Here we present an approach to understand electrophysiological diversity through gene expression by integrating pooled- and single-cell transcriptomics with intracellular electrophysiology. Using neuroinformatics methods, we compiled a brain-wide dataset of 34 neuron types with paired gene expression and intrinsic electrophysiological features from publically accessible sources, the largest such collection to date. We identified 420 genes whose expression levels significantly correlated with variability in one or more of 11 physiological parameters. We next trained statistical models to infer cellular features from multivariate gene expression patterns. Such models were predictive of gene-electrophysiological relationships in an independent collection of 12 visual cortex cell types from the Allen Institute, suggesting that these correlations might reflect general principles relating expression patterns to phenotypic diversity across very different cell types. Many associations reported here have the potential to provide new insights into how neurons generate functional diversity, and correlations of ion channel genes like Gabrd and Scn1a (Nav1.1) with resting potential and spiking frequency are consistent with known causal mechanisms. Our work highlights the promise and inherent challenges in using cell type-specific transcriptomics to understand the mechanistic origins of neuronal diversity. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Brain#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Ion Channels#Membrane Potentials#Mice#Neurons#Synaptic Transmission#Transcriptome'
b'Kleefstra syndrome, caused by haploinsufficiency of euchromatin histone methyltransferase 1 (EHMT1), is characterized by intellectual disability (ID), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), characteristic facial dysmorphisms, and other variable clinical features. In addition to EHMT1 mutations, de novo variants were reported in four additional genes (MBD5, SMARCB1, NR1I3, and KMT2C), in single individuals with clinical characteristics overlapping Kleefstra syndrome. Here, we present a novel cohort of five patients with de novo loss of function mutations affecting the histone methyltransferase KMT2C. Our clinical data delineates the KMT2C phenotypic spectrum and reinforces the phenotypic overlap with Kleefstra syndrome and other related ID disorders. To elucidate the common molecular basis of the neuropathology associated with mutations in KMT2C and EHMT1, we characterized the role of the Drosophila KMT2C ortholog, trithorax related (trr), in the nervous system. Similar to the Drosophila EHMT1 ortholog, G9a, trr is required in the mushroom body for short term memory. Trr ChIP-seq identified 3371 binding sites, mainly in the promoter of genes involved in neuronal processes. Transcriptional profiling of pan-neuronal trr knockdown and G9a null mutant fly heads identified 613 and 1123 misregulated genes, respectively. These gene sets show a significant overlap and are associated with nearly identical gene ontology enrichments. The majority of the observed biological convergence is derived from predicted indirect target genes. However, trr and G9a also have common direct targets, including the Drosophila ortholog of Arc (Arc1), a key regulator of synaptic plasticity. Our data highlight the clinical and molecular convergence between the KMT2 and EHMT protein families, which may contribute to a molecular network underlying a larger group of ID/ASD-related disorders. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Autism Spectrum Disorder#Binding Sites#Child#Chromosome Deletion#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 9#Craniofacial Abnormalities#Cytoskeletal Proteins#DNA-Binding Proteins#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Haploinsufficiency#Heart Defects, Congenital#Histone-Lysine N-Methyltransferase#Histones#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neuronal Plasticity#Promoter Regions, Genetic'
b'Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) mediate intercellular communication at synapses through the opening of an ion pore in response to the binding of a neurotransmitter. Despite the increasing availability of high-resolution structures of pLGICs, a detailed understanding of the functional isomerization from closed to open (gating) and back is currently missing. Here, we provide the first atomistic description of the transition from open to closed (un-gating) in the glutamate-gated chloride channel (GluCl) from Caenorhabditis Elegans. Starting with the active-state structure solved in complex with the neurotransmitter L-glutamate and the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) ivermectin, we analyze the spontaneous relaxation of the channel upon removal of ivermectin by explicit solvent/membrane Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations. The \xce\xbcs-long trajectories support the conclusion that ion-channel deactivation is mediated by two distinct quaternary transitions, i.e. a global receptor twisting followed by the radial expansion (or blooming) of the extracellular domain. At variance with previous models, we show that pore closing is exclusively regulated by the global twisting, which controls the position of the \xce\xb21-\xce\xb22 loop relative to the M2-M3 loop at the EC/TM domain interface. Additional simulations with L-glutamate restrained to the crystallographic binding mode and ivermectin removed indicate that the same twisting isomerization is regulated by agonist binding at the orthosteric site. These results provide a structural model for gating in pLGICs and suggest a plausible mechanism for the pharmacological action of PAMs in this neurotransmitter receptor family. The simulated un-gating converges to the X-ray structure of GluCl resting state both globally and locally, demonstrating the predictive character of state-of-art MD simulations. labels: #Allosteric Regulation#Allosteric Site#Binding Sites#Chloride Channels#Glutamic Acid#Ion Channel Gating#Ivermectin#Ligand-Gated Ion Channels#Ligands#Models, Chemical#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Neurotransmitter Agents#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation'
b'In developing brain neuronal migration, dendrite outgrowth and dendritic spine outgrowth are controlled by Cdc42, a small GTPase of the Rho family, and its activators. Cdc42 function in promoting actin polymerization is crucial for glutamatergic synapse regulation. Here, we focus on GABAergic synapse-specific activator of Cdc42, collybistin (CB) and examine functional differences between its splice isoforms CB1 and CB2. We report that CB1 and CB2 differentially regulate GABAergic synapse formation in vitro along proximal-distal axis and adult-born neuron maturation in vivo. The functional specialization between CB1 and CB2 isoforms arises from their differential protein half-life, in turn regulated by ubiquitin conjugation of the unique CB1 C-terminus. We report that CB1 and CB2 negatively regulate Cdc42; however, Cdc42 activation is dependent on CB interaction with gephyrin. During hippocampal adult neurogenesis CB1 regulates neuronal migration, while CB2 is essential for dendrite outgrowth. Finally, using mice lacking Gabra2 subunit, we show that CB1 function is downstream of GABAARs, and we can rescue adult neurogenesis deficit observed in Gabra2 KO. Overall, our results uncover previously unexpected role for CB isoforms downstream of \xce\xb12-containing GABAARs during neuron maturation in a Cdc42 dependent mechanism. labels: #Animals#Carrier Proteins#Cell Movement#Gene Expression Regulation#HEK293 Cells#Hippocampus#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Protein Isoforms#Receptors, GABA-A#Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factors#Synapses#cdc42 GTP-Binding Protein'
b'Heterochromatin contains a significant part of nuclear DNA. Little is known about the mechanisms that govern heterochromatic DNA stability. We show here that in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (i) DNA mismatch repair (MMR) is required for the maintenance of heterochromatic DNA stability, (ii) MutL\xce\xb1 (Mlh1-Pms1 heterodimer), MutS\xce\xb1 (Msh2-Msh6 heterodimer), MutS\xce\xb2 (Msh2-Msh3 heterodimer), and Exo1 are involved in MMR at heterochromatin, (iii) Exo1-independent MMR at heterochromatin frequently leads to the formation of Pol \xce\xb6-dependent mutations, (iv) MMR cooperates with the proofreading activity of Pol \xce\xb5 and the histone acetyltransferase Rtt109 in the maintenance of heterochromatic DNA stability, (v) repair of base-base mismatches at heterochromatin is less efficient than repair of base-base mismatches at euchromatin, and (vi) the efficiency of repair of 1-nt insertion/deletion loops at heterochromatin is similar to the efficiency of repair of 1-nt insertion/deletion loops at euchromatin. labels: #Base Sequence#DNA Damage#DNA Mismatch Repair#DNA, Fungal#Exodeoxyribonucleases#Genes, pol#Heterochromatin#Histone Acetyltransferases#MutL Proteins#MutS DNA Mismatch-Binding Protein#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Sequence Homology'
b'Ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) provides the precursors for the generation of dNTPs, which are required for DNA synthesis and repair. Here, we investigated the function of the major RNR subunits Rnr1 and Rnr3 in telomere elongation in budding yeast. We show that Rnr1 is essential for the sustained elongation of short telomeres by telomerase. In the absence of Rnr1, cells harbor very short, but functional, telomeres, which cannot become elongated by increased telomerase activity or by tethering of telomerase to telomeres. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Rnr1 function is critical to prevent an early onset of replicative senescence and premature survivor formation in telomerase-negative cells but dispensable for telomere elongation by Homology-Directed-Repair. Our results suggest that telomerase has a "basal activity" mode that is sufficient to compensate for the "end-replication-problem" and does not require the presence of Rnr1 and a different "sustained activity" mode necessary for the elongation of short telomeres, which requires an upregulation of dNTP levels and dGTP ratios specifically through Rnr1 function. By analyzing telomere length and dNTP levels in different mutants showing changes in RNR complex composition and activity we provide evidence that the Mec1ATR checkpoint protein promotes telomere elongation by increasing both dNTP levels and dGTP ratios through Rnr1 upregulation in a mechanism that cannot be replaced by its homolog Rnr3. labels: #Cellular Senescence#DNA Replication#Ribonucleotide Reductases#Saccharomycetales#Telomerase#Telomere#Telomere Homeostasis'
b'Many microorganisms that cause systemic, life-threatening infections in humans reside as harmless commensals in our digestive tract. Yet little is known about the biology of these microbes in the gut. Here, we visualize the interface between the human commensal and pathogenic fungus Candida albicans and the intestine of mice, a surrogate host. Because the indigenous mouse microbiota restricts C. albicans settlement, we compared the patterns of colonization in the gut of germ free and antibiotic-treated conventionally raised mice. In contrast to the heterogeneous morphologies found in the latter, we establish that in germ free animals the fungus almost uniformly adopts the yeast cell form, a proxy of its commensal state. By screening a collection of C. albicans transcription regulator deletion mutants in gnotobiotic mice, we identify several genes previously unknown to contribute to in vivo fitness. We investigate three of these regulators-ZCF8, ZFU2 and TRY4-and show that indeed they favor the yeast form over other morphologies. Consistent with this finding, we demonstrate that genetically inducing non-yeast cell morphologies is detrimental to the fitness of C. albicans in the gut. Furthermore, the identified regulators promote adherence of the fungus to a surface covered with mucin and to mucus-producing intestinal epithelial cells. In agreement with this result, histology sections indicate that C. albicans dwells in the murine gut in close proximity to the mucus layer. Thus, our findings reveal a set of regulators that endows C. albicans with the ability to endure in the intestine through multiple mechanisms. labels: #Animals#Candida albicans#Candidiasis#Germ-Free Life#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Intestinal Mucosa#Life Cycle Stages#Mice#Symbiosis'
b'Objectives: Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) has been described, but unselected PDAs have shown limited clinical responsiveness to anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1)/PD-L1 therapy.Methods: We studied 24 cases of undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma (UPC) using immunohistochemistry for PD-L1 (E1L3N clone), CD3, CD20, CD68, and DNA mismatch repair proteins in this study. Slides were scored for extent of PD-L1 expression on tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating immune cells.Results: PD-L1 expression was more frequent in UPCs than in PDAs (63% vs 15%, P<.01). The extent of PD-L1 expression was greater in UPCs, with 13 (87%) of 15 cases containing 10% or more positive tumor cells compared with three of seven PDAs (P = .05). Both tumor groups showed similar numbers of tumor-infiltrating T cells, B cells, and macrophages.Conclusions: UPC is enriched for PD-L1 expression in frequency and extent, relative to conventional PDA. Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents may represent a valuable therapeutic approach for this subset of highly aggressive pancreatic carcinoma. labels: #Aged#B7-H1 Antigen#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#History, 16th Century#History, 17th Century#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphocytes, Tumor-Infiltrating#Male#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Proportional Hazards Models'
b'Objectives: Lymph node metastasis (LNM) in submucosal invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SM-ESCC) is a prognostic factor. The aim of this study was to identify a histopathologic predictor of LNM in SM-ESCC.Methods: In total, 108 patients who underwent an esophagectomy and lymph node dissection without preoperative therapy and who were pathologically diagnosed with SM-ESCC were enrolled in this study. Relationships between several clinicopathologic factors and LNM were examined.Results: A multivariate analysis revealed that a tumor size of 35 mm or more (P = .0025), submucosal invasive depth (SID) of 2,000 \xce\xbcm or more (P = .013), and lymphatic infiltration (P<.0001) were significant independent predictors of LNM. In addition, there were significant differences in recurrence-free survival curves between patients with SID less than 2,000 \xce\xbcm or not (P = .029) and tumor size less than 35 mm or not (P = .049).Conclusions: This study suggests that SID may predict not only LNM but also poor prognosis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models'
b"Cell replacement has been explored as a therapeutic strategy to repair the brain in patients with Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. Post-mortem evaluations of healthy grafted tissue in such cases have revealed the development of Huntington- or Parkinson-like pathology including mutant huntingtin aggregates and Lewy bodies. An outstanding question remains if tau pathology can also be seen in patients with Huntington's and Parkinson's disease who had received foetal neural allografts. This was addressed by immunohistochemical/immunofluorescent stainings performed on grafted tissue of two Huntington's disease patients, who came to autopsy 9 and 12 years post-transplantation, and two patients with Parkinson's disease who came to autopsy 18 months and 16 years post-transplantation. We show that grafts also contain tau pathology in both types of transplanted patients. In two patients with Huntington's disease, the grafted tissue showed the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau [both AT8 (phospho-tau Ser202 and Thr205) and CP13 (pSer202) immunohistochemical stainings]pathological inclusions, neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads. In patients with Parkinson's disease, the grafted tissue was characterized by hyperphosphorylated tau (AT8; immunofluorescent staining) pathological inclusions, neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads but only in the patient who came to autopsy 16 years post-transplantation. Abundant tau-related pathology was observed in the cortex and striatum of all cases studied. While the striatum of the grafted Huntington's disease patient revealed an equal amount of 3-repeat and 4-repeat isoforms of tau, the grafted tissue showed elevated 4-repeat isoforms by western blot. This suggests that transplants may have acquired tau pathology from the host brain, although another possibility is that this was due to acceleration of ageing. This finding not only adds to the recent reports that tau pathology is a feature of these neurodegenerative diseases, but also that tau pathology can manifest in healthy neural tissue transplanted into the brains of patients with two distinct neurodegenerative disorders. labels: #Adult#Aged#Allografts#Autopsy#Case-Control Studies#Child#Female#Fetal Tissue Transplantation#Humans#Huntington Disease#Male#Middle Aged#Neostriatum#Parkinson Disease#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#tau Proteins"
b'BACKGROUND: Detailed neuropathological information on the structural brain lesions underlying seizures is valuable for understanding drug-resistant focal epilepsy.METHODS: We report the diagnoses made on the basis of resected brain specimens from 9523 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery for drug-resistant seizures in 36 centers from 12 European countries over 25 years. Histopathological diagnoses were determined through examination of the specimens in local hospitals (41%) or at the German Neuropathology Reference Center for Epilepsy Surgery (59%).RESULTS: The onset of seizures occurred before 18 years of age in 75.9% of patients overall, and 72.5% of the patients underwent surgery as adults. The mean duration of epilepsy before surgical resection was 20.1 years among adults and 5.3 years among children. The temporal lobe was involved in 71.9% of operations. There were 36 histopathological diagnoses in seven major disease categories. The most common categories were hippocampal sclerosis, found in 36.4% of the patients (88.7% of cases were in adults), tumors (mainly ganglioglioma) in 23.6%, and malformations of cortical development in 19.8% (focal cortical dysplasia was the most common type, 52.7% of cases of which were in children). No histopathological diagnosis could be established for 7.7% of the patients.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with drug-resistant focal epilepsy requiring surgery, hippocampal sclerosis was the most common histopathological diagnosis among adults, and focal cortical dysplasia was the most common diagnosis among children. Tumors were the second most common lesion in both groups. (Funded by the European Union and others.). labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Age of Onset#Brain#Brain Neoplasms#Child#Databases as Topic#Epilepsy#Europe#Female#Hippocampus#Humans#Male#Malformations of Cortical Development#Temporal Lobe'
b'BACKGROUND: Neurosurgical treatment may improve seizures in children and adolescents with drug-resistant epilepsy, but additional data are needed from randomized trials.METHODS: In this single-center trial, we randomly assigned 116 patients who were 18 years of age or younger with drug-resistant epilepsy to undergo brain surgery appropriate to the underlying cause of epilepsy along with appropriate medical therapy (surgery group, 57 patients) or to receive medical therapy alone (medical-therapy group, 59 patients). The patients in the medical-therapy group were assigned to a waiting list for surgery. The primary outcome was freedom from seizures at 12 months. Secondary outcomes were the score on the Hague Seizure Severity scale, the Binet-Kamat intelligence quotient, the social quotient on the Vineland Social Maturity Scale, and scores on the Child Behavior Checklist and the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory.RESULTS: At 12 months, freedom from seizures occurred in 44 patients (77%) in the surgery group and in 4 (7%) in the medical-therapy group (P<0.001). Between-group differences in the change from baseline to 12 months significantly favored surgery with respect to the score on the Hague Seizure Severity scale (difference, 19.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 15.8 to 23.1; P<0.001), on the Child Behavior Checklist (difference, 13.1; 95% CI, 10.7 to 15.6; P<0.001), on the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (difference, 21.9; 95% CI, 16.4 to 27.6; P<0.001), and on the Vineland Social Maturity Scale (difference, 4.7; 95% CI, 0.4 to 9.1; P=0.03), but not on the Binet-Kamat intelligence quotient (difference, 2.5; 95% CI, -0.1 to 5.1; P=0.06). Serious adverse events occurred in 19 patients (33%) in the surgery group, including hemiparesis in 15 (26%).CONCLUSIONS: In this single-center trial, children and adolescents with drug-resistant epilepsy who had undergone epilepsy surgery had a significantly higher rate of freedom from seizures and better scores with respect to behavior and quality of life than did those who continued medical therapy alone at 12 months. Surgery resulted in anticipated neurologic deficits related to the region of brain resection. (Funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research and others; Clinical Trial Registry-India number, CTRI/2010/091/000525 .). labels: #Adolescent#Anterior Temporal Lobectomy#Anticonvulsants#Child#Child Behavior#Child, Preschool#Cognitive Dysfunction#Drug Resistance#Epilepsy#Female#Humans#Infant#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Movement Disorders#Paresis#Postoperative Complications#Quality of Life#Seizures#Surveys and Questionnaires#Temporal Lobe#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Chromosomal rearrangements involving 17q23 have been described rarely. Deletions at 17q23.1q23.2 have been reported in individuals with developmental delay and growth retardation, whereas duplications at 17q23.1q23.2 appear to segregate with clubfoot. Dosage alterations in the TBX2 and TBX4 genes, located in 17q23.2, have been proposed to be responsible for the phenotypes observed in individuals with 17q23.1q23.2 deletions and duplications. In this report, we present the clinical phenotype of a child with a previously unreported de novo duplication at 17q23.2q23.3 located distal to the TBX2 and TBX4 region.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 7.5-year-old boy with speech and language disorder, learning difficulties, incoordination, fine motor skill impairment, infrequent seizures with abnormal EEG, and behavior disturbances (mild self-inflicted injuries, hyperactivity-inattention, and stereotyped hand movements). Chromosomal microarray revealed a 2-Mb duplication of chromosome 17q23.2q23.3. Both parents did not have the duplication indicating that this duplication is de novo in the child.CONCLUSIONS: The duplicated region encompasses 16 genes. It is possible that increased dosage of one or more genes in this region is responsible for the observed phenotype. The TANC2 gene is one of the genes in the duplicated region.It encodes a member of the TANC (tetratricopeptide repeat, ankyrin repeat and coiled-coil containing) family which includes TANC1 and TANC2. These proteins are highly expressed in brain and play major roles in synapsis regulation. Hence, it is suggestive that TANC2 is the likely candidate gene responsible for the observed phenotype as an increased TANC2 dosage can potentially alter synapsis, resulting in neuronal dysfunction and the neurobehavioral phenotype observed in this child with 17q23.2q23.3 duplication. labels: #Ataxia#Child#Chromosome Duplication#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17#Developmental Disabilities#Electroencephalography#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression#Humans#Learning Disorders#Male#Phenotype#Proteins#Psychomotor Disorders#Seizures#Self-Injurious Behavior#Speech Disorders'
b'BACKGROUND: Rumex crispus root has traditionally been used in Asian medicine for the treatment of hemorrhage and dermatolosis. The aim of this study was to explore the pharmaceutical effects of water extract of Rumex crispus (WERC) on osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation. We also studied the effect of WERC on the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL)-induced trabecular bone destruction mice model.METHODS: High performance liquid chromatography analysis was used to identify three compounds (emodin, chrysophanol, and physcion) of WERC. The in vivo effect of WERC was examined using an administration of WERC or vehicle on the ICR mice with bone loss induced by intraperitoneal RANKL injection on day 0 and 1. All mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation at day 7 and the femurs of mice were isolated for soft X-ray and Micro-CT analysis. The in vitro effect of WERC on osteoblast mineralization or osteoclast differentiation was examined by alizarin red S staining or by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining and assay. To determine the transcription level of osteoblast or osteoclast-specific genes, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used. Western blot analysis was performed to study the effect of WERC on mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) or nuclear factor-\xce\xbaB (NF-\xce\xbaB) signaling molecules.RESULTS: The presence of three compounds in WERC was determined. WERC significantly suppressed RANKL-induced trabecular bone loss by preventing microstructural deterioration. In vitro, WERC increased osteoblast mineralization by enhancing the transcription of runt-related transcription factor 2 and its transcriptional coactivators, and by stimulating extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. Furthermore, WERC significantly inhibited osteoclast differentiation by suppressing the activation of the RANKL signalings (MAPK and NF-\xce\xbaB) and the increasing inhibitory factors of nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1.CONCLUSION: This study showed that WERC could protect against osteoporosis and suggested that the possible mechanism of WERC might be related to increased osteoblast differentiation by activating Runx2 signaling and inhibition of osteoclast differentiation by suppression of RANKL signaling. labels: #Animals#Bone Resorption#Calcification, Physiologic#Cell Differentiation#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred ICR#NFATC Transcription Factors#Osteoblasts#Osteoclasts#Osteogenesis#Plant Extracts#Rumex'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Guideline recommendations for the same clinical condition may vary. The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of agreement among comparable asthma and bronchiolitis treatment recommendations from guidelines.METHODS: National and international guidelines were searched by using guideline databases (eg, National Guidelines Clearinghouse: December 16-17, 2014, and January 9, 2015). Guideline recommendations were categorized as (1) recommend, (2) optionally recommend, (3) abstain from recommending, (4) recommend against a treatment, and (5) not addressed by the guideline. The degree of agreement between recommendations was evaluated by using an unweighted and weighted \xce\xba score. Pairwise comparisons of the guidelines were evaluated similarly.RESULTS: There were 7 guidelines for asthma and 4 guidelines for bronchiolitis. For asthma, there were 166 recommendation topics, with 69 recommendation topics given in \xe2\x89\xa52 guidelines. For bronchiolitis, there were 46 recommendation topics, with 21 recommendation topics provided in \xe2\x89\xa52 guidelines. The overall \xce\xba for asthma was 0.03, both unweighted (95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.01 to 0.07) and weighted (95% CI: -0.01 to 0.10); for bronchiolitis, it was 0.32 unweighted (95% CI: 0.16 to 0.52) and 0.15 weighted (95% CI: -0.01 to 0.5).CONCLUSIONS: Less agreement was found in national and international guidelines for asthma than for bronchiolitis. Additional studies are needed to determine if differences are based on patient preferences and values and economic considerations or if other recommendation-level, guideline-level, and condition-level factors are driving these differences. labels: #Asthma#Bronchiolitis#Databases, Factual#Humans#Internationality#Practice Guidelines as Topic'
b'FBXW7 (F-box and WD repeat domain containing-7) is a tumor suppressor protein that regulates the degradation of various oncoproteins in several malignancies. However, limited information is available regarding FBXW7 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the clinical significance of FBXW7 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma. The FBXW7 expression patterns in oral squamous cell carcinoma and adjacent normal tissues from 15 patients who underwent radical resection were evaluated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical staining. In addition, immunohistochemistry was performed using paraffin-embedded sections from biopsy specimens obtained from 110 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who underwent surgery after 5 fluorouracil-based chemoradiotherapy. The associations of FBXW7 expression with various clinicopathological features and prognosis were evaluated in these patients. As a results, in the 15 matched samples, the FBXW7 expression was significantly decreased in the oral squamous cell carcinoma tissues compared to that in the adjacent normal tissues. In the clinicopathological analysis, compared to high protein expression, low FBXW7 expression was found to significantly associate with a poor histological response to preoperative chemoradiotherapy. Kaplan-Meier curve analysis revealed that low FBXW7 expression was significantly associated with a poor prognosis, and FBXW7 expression was found to be an independent predictor of overall survival in the multivariate analysis. Our results suggest that FBXW7 may function as a tumor suppressor protein in oral squamous cell carcinoma. In addition, FBXW7 could be a potential biomarker for predicting not only the clinical response to chemoradiotherapy but also overall survival in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#F-Box Proteins#F-Box-WD Repeat-Containing Protein 7#Female#Fluorouracil#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Mouth Neoplasms#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma is the most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide. The lifestyle, food habits, and customary practices manifest the Northeast Indian population toward higher susceptibility to develop head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Here, we have investigated the association of smoke and smokeless tobacco, and alcohol with copy number variation of cell-free mitochondrial DNA and cell-free nuclear DNA in cases and controls. Cell-free DNA from plasma was isolated from 50 head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cases and 50 controls with informed written consent using QIAamp Circulating Nucleic Acid Kit. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was done for copy number variation in cell-free mitochondrial DNA and cell-free nuclear DNA. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed to evaluate the diagnostic application between the two study groups using clinicopathological parameters. The levels of cell-free nuclear DNA and cell-free mitochondrial DNA of cases in association with smoke and smokeless tobacco, alcohol with smoking (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) were significantly higher (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01 and p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001, respectively) than controls. Using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis between head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cases and controls, we distinguished cell-free mitochondrial DNA (cutoff: 19.84 raw Ct; sensitivity: 84%; specificity: 100%; p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001) and cell-free nuclear DNA (cutoff: 463,282\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL; sensitivity: 53%; specificity: 87%; p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001). The copy number variation in cases (cell-free nuclear DNA: 5451.66\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL and cell-free mitochondrial DNA: 29,103,476.15\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL) and controls (cell-free nuclear DNA: 1650.9\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL and cell-free mitochondrial DNA: 9,189,312.54\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL), respectively. Our result indicates that the cell-free mitochondrial DNA content is highly associated with smoke and smokeless tobacco, betel quid chewing, and alcohol which shows greater promises, holding the key characteristics of diagnostic biomarkers, that is, minimal invasiveness, high specificity, and sensitivity. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alcohol Drinking#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA, Mitochondrial#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#India#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Smoking#Tobacco, Smokeless'
b'A repertoire of monoclonal antibodies was generated by immunization of mice with cancer-associated glycoprotein CA19.9, and two of them were selected as optimal capture and detecting counterparts for sandwich test system for detection of CA19.9. Fine epitope specificity of the antibodies was determined using printed glycan array, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and inhibitory enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Unexpectedly, both immunoglobulins did not bind key epitope of CA19.9 glycoprotein, tetrasaccharide SiaLeA, as well as its defucosylated form sialyl LeC(known as CA-50 epitope). The antibodies were found to have different glycan-binding profiles; however, they recognized similar glycotopes with common motif Gal\xce\xb21-3GlcNAc\xce\xb2 (LeC), thus resembling specificity of human natural cancer-associated anti-LeCantibodies. We propose that cancer-specific glycopeptide epitope includes Gal\xce\xb21-3GlcNAc\xce\xb2 fragment of a glycoprotein O-chain in combination with proximal hydrophobic amino acid(s) of the polypeptide chain. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#CA-19-9 Antigen#Epitopes#Glycopeptides#Humans#Mice#N-Acetylneuraminic Acid#Neoplasms#Trisaccharides'
b'Previous in vitro studies have demonstrated that miR-144 inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. We have shown that miR-144, injected intravenously, is taken up by the liver and induces endogenous hepatic synthesis of miR-144. We hypothesized that administered miR-144 has tumor-suppressive effects on liver tumor development in vivo. The effects of miR-144 on tumorigenesis and tumor growth were tested in a diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. MiR-144 injection had no effect on body weight but significantly reduced diethylnitrosamine-induced liver enlargement compared with scrambled microRNA. MiR-144 had no effect on diethylnitrosamine-induced liver tumor number but reduced the tumor size above 50%, as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (scrambled microRNA 23.07\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x895.67 vs miR-144 10.38\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.62, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and histological analysis (scrambled microRNA 30.75\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x895.41 vs miR-144 15.20\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x893.41, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05). The levels of miR-144 was suppressed in tumor tissue compared with non-tumor tissue in all treatment groups (diethylnitrosamine-phosphate-buffered saline non-tumor 1.05\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.09 vs tumor 0.54\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.08, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01; diethylnitrosamine-scrambled microRNA non-tumor 1.23\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.33 vs tumor 0.44\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.10, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05; diethylnitrosamine-miR-144 non-tumor 54.72\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8911.80 vs tumor 11.66\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.75, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01), but injection of miR-144 greatly increased miR-144 levels both in tumor and non-tumor tissues. Mechanistic studies showed that miR-144 targets epidermal growth factor receptor and inhibits the downstream Src/AKT signaling pathway which has previously been implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma tumorigenesis. Exogenously delivered miR-144 may be a therapeutic strategy to suppress tumor growth in hepatocellular carcinoma. labels: #Administration, Intravenous#Animals#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cell Proliferation#Diethylnitrosamine#Disease Models, Animal#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver#Liver Neoplasms#Mice#MicroRNAs'
b'Protein structural changes induced by external perturbations or internal cues can profoundly influence protein activity and thus modulate cellular physiology. A number of biophysical approaches are available to probe protein structural changes, but these are not applicable to a whole proteome in a biological extract. Limited proteolysis-coupled mass spectrometry (LiP-MS) is a recently developed proteomics approach that enables the identification of protein structural changes directly in their complex biological context on a proteome-wide scale. After perturbations of interest, proteome extracts are subjected to a double-protease digestion step with a nonspecific protease applied under native conditions, followed by complete digestion with the sequence-specific protease trypsin under denaturing conditions. This sequential treatment generates structure-specific peptides amenable to bottom-up MS analysis. Next, a proteomics workflow involving shotgun or targeted MS and label-free quantification is applied to measure structure-dependent proteolytic patterns directly in the proteome extract. Possible applications of LiP-MS include discovery of perturbation-induced protein structural alterations, identification of drug targets, detection of disease-associated protein structural states, and analysis of protein aggregates directly in biological samples. The approach also enables identification of the specific protein regions involved in the structural transition or affected by the binding event. Sample preparation takes approximately 2 d, followed by one to several days of MS and data analysis time, depending on the number of samples analyzed. Scientists with basic biochemistry training can implement the sample preparation steps. MS measurement and data analysis require a background in proteomics. labels: #Biomarkers#Complex Mixtures#Drug Design#Endopeptidase K#Ficain#HeLa Cells#Humans#Pronase#Protein Structure, Secondary#Protein Structure, Tertiary#Proteolysis#Proteome#Proteomics#Quality Control#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Tandem Mass Spectrometry#Thermolysin#Trypsin'
b"The adoption of and opportunities in continuous flow synthesis ('flow chemistry') have increased significantly over the past several years. Continuous flow systems provide improved reaction safety and accelerated reaction kinetics, and have synthesised several active pharmaceutical ingredients in automated reconfigurable systems. Although continuous flow platforms are commercially available, systems constructed 'in-lab' provide researchers with a flexible, versatile, and cost-effective alternative. Herein, we describe the assembly and use of a modular continuous flow apparatus from readily available and affordable parts in as little as 30 min. Once assembled, the synthesis of a sulfonamide by reacting 4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride with dibenzylamine in a single reactor coil with an in-line quench is presented. This example reaction offers the opportunity to learn several important skills including reactor construction, charging of a back-pressure regulator, assembly of stainless-steel syringes, assembly of a continuous flow system with multiple junctions, and yield determination. From our extensive experience of single-step and multistep continuous flow synthesis, we also describe solutions to commonly encountered technical problems such as precipitation of solids ('clogging') and reactor failure. Following this protocol, a nonspecialist can assemble a continuous flow system from reactor coils, syringes, pumps, in-line liquid-liquid separators, drying columns, back-pressure regulators, static mixers, and packed-bed reactors. labels: #Benzylamines#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Chlorobenzenes#Kinetics#Rheology#Sulfonamides"
b'Glycobiology, in particular the study of carbohydrate-protein interactions and the events that follow, has become an important research focus in recent decades. To study these interactions, many assays require homogeneous glycoconjugates in suitable amounts. Their synthesis is one of the methodological challenges of glycobiology. Here, we describe a versatile, three-stage protocol for the formation of glycoconjugates from unprotected carbohydrates, including those purified from natural sources, as exemplified here by rhizobial Nod factors and exopolysaccharide fragments. The first stage is to add an oligo(ethylene glycol) linker (OEG-linker) that has a terminal triphenylmethanethiol group to the reducing end of the oligosaccharide by oxime formation catalyzed by aniline. The triphenylmethyl (trityl) tag is then removed from the linker to expose a thiol (stage 2) to allow a conjugation reaction at the thiol group (stage 3). There are many possible conjugation reactions, depending on the desired application. Examples shown in this protocol are as follows: (i) coupling of the oligosaccharide to a support for surface plasmon resonance (SPR) studies, (ii) fluorescence labeling for microscale thermophoresis (MST) or bioimaging, and (iii) biotinylation for biolayer interferometry (BLI) studies. This protocol starts from unprotected carbohydrates and provides glycoconjugates in milligram amounts in just 2 d. labels: #Aniline Compounds#Biotinylation#Catalysis#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Glycoconjugates#Glycomics#Interferometry#Lipopolysaccharides#Optical Imaging#Oximes#Polyethylene Glycols#Protein Binding#Sulfhydryl Compounds#Surface Plasmon Resonance#Trityl Compounds'
b'Importance: Robotic rectal cancer surgery is gaining popularity, but limited data are available regarding safety and efficacy.Objective: To compare robotic-assisted vs conventional laparoscopic surgery for risk of conversion to open laparotomy among patients undergoing resection for rectal cancer.Design, Setting, and Participants: Randomized clinical trial comparing robotic-assisted vs conventional laparoscopic surgery among 471 patients with rectal adenocarcinoma suitable for curative resection conducted at 29 sites across 10 countries, including 40 surgeons. Recruitment of patients was from January 7, 2011, to September 30, 2014, follow-up was conducted at 30 days and 6 months, and final follow-up was on June 16, 2015.Interventions: Patients were randomized to robotic-assisted (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89237) or conventional (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89234) laparoscopic rectal cancer resection, performed by either high (upper rectum) or low (total rectum) anterior resection or abdominoperineal resection (rectum and perineum).Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome was conversion to open laparotomy. Secondary end points included intraoperative and postoperative complications, circumferential resection margin positivity (CRM+) and other pathological outcomes, quality of life (36-Item Short Form Survey and 20-item Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory), bladder and sexual dysfunction (International Prostate Symptom Score, International Index of Erectile Function, and Female Sexual Function Index), and oncological outcomes.Results: Among 471 randomized patients (mean [SD] age, 64.9 [11.0]years; 320 [67.9%] men), 466 (98.9%) completed the study. The overall rate of conversion to open laparotomy was 10.1%: 19 of 236 patients (8.1%) in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group and 28 of 230 patients (12.2%) in the conventional laparoscopic group (unadjusted risk difference\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.1% [95% CI, -1.4% to 9.6%]; adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.61 [95% CI, 0.31 to 1.21]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.16). The overall CRM+ rate was 5.7%; CRM+ occurred in 14 (6.3%) of 224 patients in the conventional laparoscopic group and 12 (5.1%) of 235 patients in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group (unadjusted risk difference\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.1% [95% CI, -3.1% to 5.4%]; adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.78 [95% CI, 0.35 to 1.76]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.56). Of the other 8 reported prespecified secondary end points, including intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, plane of surgery, 30-day mortality, bladder dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, none showed a statistically significant difference between groups.Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients with rectal adenocarcinoma suitable for curative resection, robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, as compared with conventional laparoscopic surgery, did not significantly reduce the risk of conversion to open laparotomy. These findings suggest that robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, when performed by surgeons with varying experience with robotic surgery, does not confer an advantage in rectal cancer resection.Trial Registration: isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN80500123. labels: #Aged#Conversion to Open Surgery#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Direct Service Costs#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Laparotomy#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Rectal Neoplasms#Risk#Robotic Surgical Procedures'
b'Importance: Use of robotic surgery has increased in urological practice over the last decade. However, the use, outcomes, and costs of robotic nephrectomy are unknown.Objectives: To examine the trend in use of robotic-assisted operations for radical nephrectomy in the United States and to compare the perioperative outcomes and costs with laparoscopic radical nephrectomy.Design, Setting, and Participants: This retrospective cohort study used the Premier Healthcare database to evaluate outcomes of patients who had undergone robotic-assisted or laparoscopic radical nephrectomy for renal mass at 416 US hospitals between January 2003 and September 2015. Multivariable regression modeling was used to assess outcomes.Exposures: Robotic-assisted vs laparoscopic radical nephrectomy.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome of the study was the trend in use of robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy. The secondary outcomes were perioperative complications, based on the Clavien classification system, and defined as any complication (Clavien grades 1-5) or major complications (Clavien grades 3-5, for which grade 5 results in death); resource use (operating time, blood transfusion, length of hospital stay); and direct hospital cost.Results: Among 23\xe2\x80\xaf753 patients included in the study (mean age, 61.4 years; men, 13\xe2\x80\xaf792 [58.1%]), 18\xe2\x80\xaf573 underwent laparoscopic radical nephrectomy and 5180 underwent robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy. Use of robotic-assisted surgery increased from 1.5% (39 of 2676 radical nephrectomy procedures in 2003) to 27.0% (862 of 3194 radical nephrectomy procedures) in 2015 (P for trend<.001). In the weighted-adjusted analysis, there were no significant differences between robotic-assisted and laparoscopic radical nephrectomy in the incidence of any (Clavien grades 1-5) postoperative complications (adjusted rates, 22.2% vs 23.4%, difference, -1.2%; 95% CI, -5.4 to 3.0%) or major (Clavien grades 3-5) complications (adjusted rates, 3.5% vs 3.8%, difference, -0.3%; 95% CI, -1.0% to 0.5%). The rate of prolonged operating time (>4 hours) for patients undergoing the robotic-assisted procedure was higher than for patients receiving the laparoscopic procedure in the adjusted analysis (46.3% vs 25.8%; risk difference, 20.5%; 95% CI, 14.2% to 26.8%). Robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy was associated with higher mean 90-day direct hospital costs ($19\xe2\x80\xaf530 vs $16\xe2\x80\xaf851; difference, $2678; 95% CI, $838 to $4519), mainly accounted for operating room ($7217 vs $5378; difference, $1839; 95% CI, $1050 to $2628) and supply costs ($4876 vs $3891; difference, $985; 95% CI, $473 to $1498).Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients undergoing radical nephrectomy for renal mass between 2003 and 2015, the use of robotic-assisted surgery increased substantially. The use of robotic-assistance was not associated with increased risk of any or major complications but was associated with prolonged operating time and higher hospital costs compared with laparoscopic surgery. labels: #Aged#Female#Hospital Costs#Humans#Kidney Diseases#Laparoscopy#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrectomy#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Robotic Surgical Procedures#United States'
b'Importance: Prehospital blood product transfusion in trauma care remains controversial due to poor-quality evidence and cost. Sequential expansion of blood transfusion capability after 2012 to deployed military medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) units enabled a concurrent cohort study to focus on the timing as well as the location of the initial transfusion.Objective: To examine the association of prehospital transfusion and time to initial transfusion with injury survival.Design, Setting, and Participants: Retrospective cohort study of US military combat casualties in Afghanistan between April 1, 2012, and August 7, 2015. Eligible patients were rescued alive by MEDEVAC from point of injury with either (1) a traumatic limb amputation at or above the knee or elbow or (2) shock defined as a systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg or a heart rate greater than 120 beats per minute.Exposures: Initiation of prehospital transfusion and time from MEDEVAC rescue to first transfusion, regardless of location (ie, prior to or during hospitalization). Transfusion recipients were compared with nonrecipients (unexposed) for whom transfusion was delayed or not given.Main Outcomes and Measures: Mortality at 24 hours and 30 days after MEDEVAC rescue were coprimary outcomes. To balance injury severity, nonrecipients of prehospital transfusion were frequency matched to recipients by mechanism of injury, prehospital shock, severity of limb amputation, head injury, and torso hemorrhage. Cox regression was stratified by matched groups and also adjusted for age, injury year, transport team, tourniquet use, and time to MEDEVAC rescue.Results: Of 502 patients (median age, 25 years [interquartile range, 22 to 29 years]; 98% male), 3 of 55 prehospital transfusion recipients (5%) and 85 of 447 nonrecipients (19%) died within 24 hours of MEDEVAC rescue (between-group difference, -14% [95% CI, -21% to -6%]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.01). By day 30, 6 recipients (11%) and 102 nonrecipients (23%) died (between-group difference, -12% [95% CI, -21% to -2%]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.04). For the 386 patients without missing covariate data among the 400 patients within the matched groups, the adjusted hazard ratio for mortality associated with prehospital transfusion was 0.26 (95% CI, 0.08 to 0.84, P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.02) over 24 hours (3 deaths among 54 recipients vs 67 deaths among 332 matched nonrecipients) and 0.39 (95% CI, 0.16 to 0.92, P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.03) over 30 days (6 vs 76 deaths, respectively). Time to initial transfusion, regardless of location (prehospital or during hospitalization), was associated with reduced 24-hour mortality only up to 15 minutes after MEDEVAC rescue (median, 36 minutes after injury; adjusted hazard ratio, 0.17 [95% CI, 0.04 to 0.73], P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.02; there were 2 deaths among 62 recipients vs 68 deaths among 324 delayed transfusion recipients or nonrecipients).Conclusions and Relevance: Among medically evacuated US military combat causalities in Afghanistan, blood product transfusion prehospital or within minutes of injury was associated with greater 24-hour and 30-day survival than delayed transfusion or no transfusion. The findings support prehospital transfusion in this setting. labels: #Adult#Afghan Campaign 2001-#Air Ambulances#Blood Transfusion#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Humans#Male#Military Medicine#Military Personnel#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Time-to-Treatment#United States#Wounds and Injuries#Young Adult'
b"Importance: Hypothermia initiated at less than 6 hours after birth reduces death or disability for infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy at 36 weeks' or later gestation. To our knowledge, hypothermia trials have not been performed in infants presenting after 6 hours.Objective: To estimate the probability that hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth reduces the risk of death or disability at 18 months among infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.Design, Setting, and Participants: A randomized clinical trial was conducted between April 2008 and June 2016 among infants at 36 weeks' or later gestation with moderate or severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy enrolled at 6 to 24 hours after birth. Twenty-one US Neonatal Research Network centers participated. Bayesian analyses were prespecified given the anticipated limited sample size.Interventions: Targeted esophageal temperature was used in 168 infants. Eighty-three hypothermic infants were maintained at 33.5\xc2\xb0C (acceptable range, 33\xc2\xb0C-34\xc2\xb0C) for 96 hours and then rewarmed. Eighty-five noncooled infants were maintained at 37.0\xc2\xb0C (acceptable range, 36.5\xc2\xb0C-37.3\xc2\xb0C).Main Outcomes and Measures: The composite of death or disability (moderate or severe) at 18 to 22 months adjusted for level of encephalopathy and age at randomization.Results: Hypothermic and noncooled infants were term (mean [SD], 39 [2]and 39 [1] weeks' gestation, respectively), and 47 of 83 (57%) and 55 of 85 (65%) were male, respectively. Both groups were acidemic at birth, predominantly transferred to the treating center with moderate encephalopathy, and were randomizedat a mean (SD) of 16 (5) and 15 (5) hours for hypothermic and noncooled groups, respectively. The primary outcome occurred in 19 of 78 hypothermic infants (24.4%) and 22 of 79 noncooled infants (27.9%) (absolute difference, 3.5%; 95% CI, -1% to 17%). Bayesian analysis using a neutral prior indicated a 76% posterior probability of reduced death or disability with hypothermia relative to the noncooled group (adjusted posterior risk ratio, 0.86; 95% credible interval, 0.58-1.29). The probability that death or disability in cooled infants was at least 1%, 2%, or 3% less than noncooled infants was 71%, 64%, and 56%, respectively.Conclusions and Relevance: Among term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth compared with noncooling resulted in a 76% probability of any reduction in death or disability, and a 64% probability of at least 2% less death or disability at 18 to 22 months. Hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth may have benefit but there is uncertainty in its effectiveness.Trial Registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00614744. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Developmental Disabilities#Female#Gestational Age#Humans#Hypothermia, Induced#Hypoxia-Ischemia, Brain#Infant, Newborn#Male#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Time-to-Treatment"
b'All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), the most biologically active metabolite of vitamin A, is known to activate p14 expression via promoter hypermethylation to induce p53-dependent apoptosis in human hepatocytes. In this study, we found that the oncogenic hepatitis B virus (HBV) X protein (HBx) of HBV, derived from both overexpression and 1.2-mer replicon systems, suppresses ATRA-induced apoptosis in p53-positive human hepatocytes. For this effect, HBx upregulated both protein and enzyme activity levels of DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a and 3b, in the presence of ATRA and thereby inhibited p14 expression via promoter hypermethylation, resulting in inactivation of the p14-mouse double minute 2 pathway and subsequent downregulation of p53 levels. As a result, HBx was able to impair the potential of ATRA to activate apoptosis-related molecules, including Bax, p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis, caspase-9, caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. In conclusion, the present study provides a new oncogenic action mechanism of HBx, namely by suppressing the anticancer potential of ATRA to induce p53-dependent apoptosis in HBV-infected hepatocytes. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line#Cell Survival#DNA Methylation#Down-Regulation#Genes, Tumor Suppressor#Hepatocytes#Humans#Oncogene Proteins#Trans-Activators#Tretinoin'
b'BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) occurs in both adults and children but the response to chemotherapy and survival is significantly worse in the adults. We aimed to study whether the expression of immune system-associated miRNAs would differ between adult and pediatric patients with ALL at the time of diagnosis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Inflammation-associated miRNA analysis was performed in 19 adults and 79 pediatric patients with ALL and involved miR-10, miR-15, miR-16, miR-17-92 cluster, miR-33, miR-146a, miR-150, miR-155, miR-181a, miR-222, miR-223, and miR-339. MiRNAs were first analyzed by miRNA microarray and thereafter validated by qRT-PCR. Sufficient RNA for qRT-PCR was available for 42 pediatric and 19 adult patients.RESULTS: Of the studied miRNAs, only miR-18a differed significantly in microarray analysis between adult and pediatric ALL, being lower in children (FC, -3.74; P, 0.0037). Results were confirmed by qRT-PCR (down-regulated in pediatric patients, P 0.003161). The other members of the miR-17-92 cluster did not differ significantly.CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric and adult patients with ALL have remarkably similar patterns of immune-cell-associated miRNAs in their bone marrow at diagnosis. However, the low expression of miR-18a in pediatric ALL is interesting and demands further study. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Bone Marrow#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Chromosome Aberrations#Computational Biology#Female#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Leukemic#Humans#Infant#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#RNA Interference#RNA, Messenger#Reproducibility of Results'
b"BACKGROUND: Immunosuppressive therapy (IST) is the standard treatment for aplastic anemia (AA) children who lack a sibling donor, but the clinical response rate to IST varies. Predictors of response to IST are valuable for stratifying AA patients and making clinical decisions.METHODS: The serum interleukin (IL)-6 levels of 41 AA patients were measured at the time of diagnosis and the response rate of the patients to IST was evaluated at 3, 6, and 12 months after IST. Receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to calculate the predictive value of initial IL-6 levels in determining response at 6 months after IST.RESULTS: The initial IL-6 levels were significant higher in responders than nonresponders at 6 months after IST (211.89 vs. 18.09\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL; P=0.005), using 36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL as a threshold, there were 80% sensitivity and 81% specificity for discriminating responders and nonresponders to IST. Patients with initial high IL-6 level (>36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL) have favorable response rates than those with initial low IL-6 level (<36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL) at 3, 6, and 12 months after IST (P<0.01).CONCLUSION: High levels of IL-6 at the time of diagnosis predict a favorable response to IST in children with AA and this may be helpful for patient's stratification and clinical decisions. labels: #Adolescent#Anemia, Aplastic#Biomarkers#Blood Cell Count#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Interleukin-6#Male#ROC Curve#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome"
b'Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is a widely used agent as the first choice of treatment of immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). IVIG has several side effects, but it is a relatively safe treatment. Life-threatening thrombosis has been reported in adults and rarely in children. We report a case of a 14-year-old boy with dural venous sinus thrombosis and pulmonary embolism after treatment with IVIG for ITP. The patient was treated with low-molecular-weight heparin followed by warfarin and the symptoms were recovered. If a patient with ITP shows mental change or respiratory difficulty, we should consider thrombosis as well as hemorrhage. labels: #Adolescent#Anticoagulants#Biopsy#Bone Marrow#Hematologic Tests#Heparin, Low-Molecular-Weight#Humans#Immunoglobulins, Intravenous#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Male#Pulmonary Embolism#Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic#Sinus Thrombosis, Intracranial#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Venous Thrombosis#Warfarin'
b'BACKGROUND: Patients managed nonoperatively have been excluded from risk-adjusted benchmarking programs, including the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP). Consequently, optimal performance evaluation is not possible for specialties like emergency general surgery (EGS) where nonoperative management is common. We developed a multi-institutional EGS clinical data registry within ACS NSQIP that includes patients managed nonoperatively to evaluate variability in nonoperative care across hospitals and identify gaps in performance assessment that occur when only operative cases are considered.METHODS: Using ACS NSQIP infrastructure and methodology, surgical consultations for acute appendicitis, acute cholecystitis, and small bowel obstruction (SBO) were sampled at 13 hospitals that volunteered to participate in the EGS clinical data registry. Standard NSQIP variables and 16 EGS-specific variables were abstracted with 30-day follow-up. To determine the influence of complications in nonoperative patients, rates of adverse outcomes were identified, and hospitals were ranked by performance with and then without including nonoperative cases.RESULTS: Two thousand ninety-one patients with EGS diagnoses were included, 46.6% with appendicitis, 24.3% with cholecystitis, and 29.1% with SBO. The overall rate of nonoperative management was 27.4%, 6.6% for appendicitis, 16.5% for cholecystitis, and 69.9% for SBO. Despite comprising only 27.4% of patients in the EGS pilot, nonoperative management accounted for 67.7% of deaths, 34.3% of serious morbidities, and 41.8% of hospital readmissions. After adjusting for patient characteristics and hospital diagnosis mix, addition of nonoperative management to hospital performance assessment resulted in 12 of 13 hospitals changing performance rank, with four hospitals changing by three or more positions.CONCLUSION: This study identifies a gap in performance evaluation when nonoperative patients are excluded from surgical quality assessment and demonstrates the feasibility of incorporating nonoperative care into existing surgical quality initiatives. Broadening the scope of hospital performance assessment to include nonoperative management creates an opportunity to improve the care of all surgical patients, not just those who have an operation.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Care management, level IV; Epidemiologic, level III. labels: #Appendicitis#Benchmarking#Cholecystitis#Emergency Medicine#Female#General Surgery#Humans#Intestinal Obstruction#Intestine, Small#Male#Pilot Projects#Quality Improvement'
b'BACKGROUND: Child abuse remains a national epidemic that has detrimental effects if unnoticed in the clinical setting. Extreme cases of child abuse, or nonaccidental trauma (NAT), have large financial burdens associated with them due to treatment costs and long-term effects of abuse. Clinicians who have additional training and experience with pediatric trauma are better equipped to detect signs of NAT and have more experience reporting it. This additional training and experience can be measured by using the American College of Surgeons (ACS) Pediatric Trauma verification. It is hypothesized that ACS-verified pediatric trauma centers (vPTCs) have an increased prevalence of NAT because of this additional experience and training relative to non-ACS vPTCs.METHODS: The National Trauma Data Bank, for the years 2007 to 2014, was utilized to compare the prevalence of NAT between ACS vPTCs relative to non-ACS vPTCs to produce both crude and Injury Severity Score adjusted prevalence ratio estimates.RESULTS: The majority of NAT cases across all hospitals were male (58.3%). The mean age of the NAT cases was 2.3 years with a mean Injury Severity Score (ISS) of 11.1. The most common payment method was Medicaid (64.4%). The prevalence of NAT was 1.82 (1.74-1.90) times higher among ACS vPTCs and 1.81 (1.73-1.90) after adjusting for ISS.CONCLUSIONS: The greater prevalence of NAT at vPTCs likely represents a more accurate measure of NAT among pediatric trauma patients, likely due to more experience and training of clinicians.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic/Epidemiological, Level II. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child Abuse#Child, Preschool#Female#Hospitals, Pediatric#Humans#Infant#Injury Severity Score#Linear Models#Male#Medicaid#Prevalence#Trauma Centers#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Direct-to-implant breast reconstruction offers time-saving advantages over two-stage techniques. However, use of direct-to-implant reconstruction remains limited, in part, because of concerns over complication rates., The authors' aim was to compare 2-year complications and patient-reported outcomes for direct-to-implant versus tissue expander/implant reconstruction.METHODS: Patients undergoing immediate direct-to-implant or tissue expander/implant reconstruction were enrolled in the Mastectomy Reconstruction Outcomes Consortium, an 11-center prospective cohort study. Complications and patient-reported outcomes (using the BREAST-Q questionnaire) were evaluated. Outcomes were compared using mixed-effects regression models, adjusting for demographic and clinical characteristics.RESULTS: Of 1427 patients, 99 underwent direct-to-implant reconstruction and 1328 underwent tissue expander/implant reconstruction. Two years after reconstruction and controlling for covariates, direct-to-implant and tissue expander/implant reconstruction patients did not show statistically significant differences in any complications, including infection. Multivariable analyses found no significant differences between the two groups in patient-reported outcomes, with the exception of sexual well-being, where direct-to-implant patients fared better than the tissue expander/implant cohort (p = 0.047).CONCLUSIONS: This prospective, multi-institutional study showed no statistically significant differences between direct-to-implant and tissue expander/implant reconstruction, in either complication rates or most patient-reported outcomes at 2 years postoperatively. Direct-to-implant reconstruction appears to be a viable alternative to expander/implant reconstruction. This analysis provides new evidence on which to base reconstructive decisions.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, II. labels: #Adult#Breast Implantation#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Logistic Models#Mastectomy#Middle Aged#Patient Reported Outcome Measures#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Regression Analysis#Tissue Expansion"
b'BACKGROUND: The double capsule is a complication mostly described in aggressive macrotextured implants. Mechanical shear stress applied onto an immature periprosthetic capsule has been linked to their formation. The authors aim to demonstrate the role of bacterial phenotype and biofilm in the development of the double capsule.METHODS: Seven double capsules formed at the interface of macrotextured breast expander implants were studied using scanning electron microscopy. Two samples for each surface of the inner capsule layer (the prosthesis interface and the intercapsular space) were analyzed for bacteria cell size, bacterial density, and biofilm deposition.RESULTS: Although all routine bacterial cultures were negative, the prosthesis interface had both higher bacteria load and biofilm deposition compared with the intercapsular space (Mann-Whitney U test, p = 0.004 and p = 0.008, respectively). Moreover, bacteria cell sizes were significantly smaller at the prosthesis interface in six of seven samples. Comparison of bacteria density and biofilm dispersion showed an increase of biofilm extracellular matrix deposition over 2000 cells/mm (linear regression, p = 0.0025). These results indicate a common trend among bacteria species.CONCLUSIONS: Bacterial expression between the different surfaces of the double capsule displays significant differences; bacteria at the prosthesis interface are mostly in a biofilm state, whereas they demonstrate a planktonic phenotype at the intercapsular space. When a sufficient amount of bacteria are present at a specific location, quorum sensing may trigger a biofilm phenotypic switch in planktonic bacteria cells. Biofilm formation may alter capsule formation through immune response, thereby weakening capsule strength and facilitating extracellular matrix delamination and double-capsule formation.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adult#Biofilms#Breast Implantation#Breast Implants#Female#Foreign-Body Reaction#Humans#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Tissue Expansion#Tissue Expansion Devices'
b'BACKGROUND: Modern breast reconstruction often involves microvascular reconstruction. The most common recipient vessels are the internal mammary artery and vein. Recently, there has been great focus on efficiency, but much of this emphasis has been directed to faster flap harvest or recovery protocols for expeditious discharge. An equally important aspect is internal mammary vessel preparation.METHODS: Breast reconstruction was performed in 415 patients (715 breasts) using autologous tissue (850 flaps) from 2012 to 2016. In 97.6 percent of these breast reconstructions, the internal mammary vessels were used. The preparation of these vessels was routinely performed using the five-step technique described here.RESULTS: Internal mammary preparation time ranged from 7 to 45 minutes (median, 15 minutes). The procedure involves five simplified steps, as follows: step 1, the rib is exposed by splitting the pectoralis major muscle; step 2, the perichondrium anterior to the cartilage is incised and dissected away from the cartilage; step 3, the cartilage is removed with a rongeur; step 4, laterally the perichondrium is elevated and incised (under direct vision, this perichondrium is then split directly over the vessels and the cranial and caudal flaps are resected); and step 5, careful dissection is performed on the artery and vein.CONCLUSIONS: Safe preparation of recipient vessels in microvascular reconstruction is essential for success. In modern breast reconstruction, the internal mammary artery and vein are typically used. Exposure of these vessels should be predictable and efficient. The authors have found that a systematic approach using the above five steps accomplishes these goals. labels: #Dissection#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mammary Arteries#Operative Time#Surgical Flaps'
b"The American Society of Plastic Surgeons commissioned a multistakeholder Work Group to develop recommendations for autologous breast reconstruction with abdominal flaps. A systematic literature review was performed and a stringent appraisal process was used to rate the quality of relevant scientific research. The Work Group assigned to draft this guideline was unable to find evidence of superiority of one technique over the other (deep inferior epigastric perforator versus pedicled transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flap) in autologous tissue reconstruction of the breast after mastectomy. Presently, based on the evidence reported here, the Work Group recommends that surgeons contemplating breast reconstruction on their next patient consider the following: the patient's preferences and risk factors, the setting in which the surgeon works (academic versus community practice), resources available, the evidence shown in this guideline, and, equally important, the surgeon's technical expertise. Although theoretical superiority of one technique may exist, this remains to be reported in the literature, and future methodologically robust studies are needed. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Epigastric Arteries#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mastectomy#Patient Satisfaction#Postoperative Complications#Rectus Abdominis#Reoperation#Surgical Flaps"
b"BACKGROUND: In their descriptions of the ideal breast, most studies have focused primarily on the dimensions, shape, and proportions. The distance between the breasts has only very rarely been considered. The intermammary distance and the medial symmetry between the breasts are important parts of the outcome of surgery and have a strong bearing on patient satisfaction. However, the control surgeons have over these factors is only relative, and depends heavily on the underlying anatomical characteristics of the patients.METHODS: Eighty-six patients undergoing breast augmentation, breast reduction, or mastopexy and breast reconstruction with separated or asymmetric breasts underwent fat grafting in the medial quadrants. Intermammary distances were measured before fat grafting and 12 months later. Complications were also recorded.RESULTS: This technique obtained a statistically significant reduction in the mean intermammary distance (p<0.0001) from 3 \xc2\xb1 0.6 cm (range, 1.6 to 5 cm) to 1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.4 cm (range, 1 to 2.8 cm) at 12-month follow-up. There were no major complications: one capsular contracture in a breast reconstruction requiring capsulotomy and an oil cyst requiring aspiration were reported.CONCLUSION: The authors' technique allows safe remodeling of the medial cleavage of the breast, reducing the intermammary distance and optimizing the symmetry between the breasts.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, IV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Breast#Esthetics#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Mammaplasty#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Satisfaction#Prospective Studies#Subcutaneous Fat#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: The traditional abdominoplasty is one of the most common surgical procedures performed. This study evaluates the impact of different surgical techniques and clinical patient factors on abdominoplasty outcomes.METHODS: A retrospective review of consecutive patients undergoing abdominoplasty was performed.RESULTS: Seven hundred seventy-nine patients with a mean age of 43.7 years and a body mass index of 27 kg/m underwent abdominoplasty. The majority were women (92.9 percent), and massive weight loss was present in 34.8 percent. Abdominoplasty techniques included traditional (59.4 percent), belt lipectomy (17.9 percent), fleur-de-lis (16.4 percent), umbilical float (9.2 percent), and mini-abdominoplasty (2.8 percent). Half of the study population [n = 384 (49.3 percent)] had concurrent surgical procedures. Total complications (23.0 percent) consisted primarily of wound- and scar-related complications (15.3 percent). Approximately 60 percent of patients received heparin chemoprophylaxis, with overall thromboembolic and hematoma rates less than 1 percent. Univariate analysis revealed that massive weight loss (p = 0.04), fleur-de-lis (p = 0.03) or belt lipectomy (p = 0.05) techniques, and concurrent medial thigh lift(p<0.001) all significantly increased complications. Previous scars, amount of weight loss, operative time, liposuction, and other concurrent procedures did not affect total complications. Male sex (OR, 1.96; p = 0.04), fleur-de-lis technique (OR, 1.71; p = 0.04), and medial thigh lift (OR, 3.3; p<0.001) were independent risk factors for total postoperative complications.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that abdominoplasty alone or in combination with liposuction and aesthetic breast surgery can be performed safely, with an acceptable complication profile.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, III. labels: #Abdominoplasty#Adult#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hospitals, General#Humans#Lipectomy#Male#Mammaplasty#Massachusetts#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND: There are instances where small or large pockets are filled with diced cartilage in the nose, without use of wrapping materials. For this purpose, 1-cc commercial syringes were used. The obtained results were partial and incomplete. For better and improved results, the author designed new syringes, with two different sizes, which compress the diced cartilage for injection.METHODS: The author presents his experience accrued over the past 12 years with 2366 primary, 749 secondary, 67 cleft lip and nose, and a total of 3182 rhinoplasties, using his new syringe design, which compresses diced cartilage and injects the diced cartilages as a conglutinate mass, simulating carved costal cartilage, but a malleable one.RESULTS: In 3125 patients, the take of cartilage graft was complete (98.2 percent) and a smooth surface was obtained, giving them a natural appearance. In 21 patients (0.65 percent), there was partial resorption of cartilage. Correction was performed with touch-up surgery by reinjection of a small amount of diced cartilage. In 36 patients (1.13 percent), there was overcorrection that, 1 year later, was treated by simple rasping.CONCLUSIONS: Compared with diced cartilage wrapped with Surgicel or fascia, the amount of injected cartilage graft is predictable because it consists purely of cartilage. The injected diced cartilage, because it is compressed and becomes a conglutinated mass, resembles a wood chip and simulates carved cartilage. It is superior to carved cartilage in that it is moldable, time saving, and gives a good result with no late show or warping. The injection takes only a few minutes. labels: #Adult#Cartilage#Female#Humans#Injections#Rhinoplasty#Syringes'
b'Alar flare is a common feature that contributes to the width of the lower third of the nose. In the right patient, alar flare reduction can improve nasal harmony and facial aesthetic balance; however, it is also difficult to correct if conducted inappropriately or overzealously. The unique anatomy and diverse morphologies of the alar lobule, and the dynamic relationship between flare and changes in tip projection, must be considered. The authors provide guidelines for flare reduction: when it is appropriate and how to tailor the excision pattern to safely and effectively refine nasal width. Alar flare is classified into three types according to alar rim shape on basal view analysis. By designing the excision pattern based on specific flare type, the lower third of the nose is narrowed without creating an operated appearance.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Nose#Rhinoplasty'
b'Despite the growth of technically more sophisticated skin resurfacing modalities, such as those based on light, radiofrequency, and ultrasound, chemical peel procedures have risen 5 to 25 percent over the past year alone. Chemexfoliation carries historical significance and has markedly evolved since its inception in ancient times. As a result of plastic surgery and dermatologic advancements, modern-day chemexfoliation offers plastic surgeons additional safe and effective options for patients with rhytides, dyschromias, and other signs of light- and environment-induced skin damage. This review discusses the historical evolution of chemexfoliation procedures, highlights modern-day practice habits, and touches on the clinically relevant applications of chemical peels. labels: #Chemexfoliation#Europe#History, 16th Century#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#History, 21st Century#History, Ancient#Humans#Rejuvenation#United States'
b'The treatment of nasomaxillary hypoplasia is challenging. The phenotype of Binder "syndrome" includes the following: midfacial hypoplasia, class III malocclusion, small or absent anterior nasal spine, flattened nose, horizontal nostrils, short columella, acute nasolabial angle, and a flat frontonasal angle. A staged approach is used, with orthognathic surgery to achieve vertical maxillary length and sagittal advancement, followed by rhinoplasty aimed to increase nasal tip projection, rotation, and columellar length. This article details the diagnosis and treatment of nasomaxillary hypoplasia, demonstrating the senior author\'s (D.M.S.) preferred approach and technical steps.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adolescent#Female#Humans#Maxillofacial Abnormalities#Orthognathic Surgical Procedures#Rhinoplasty'
b'BACKGROUND: Wide variations in fat graft survival have been reported. The authors hypothesize that treating the adipose tissue on Telfa gauze creates a processed lipoaspirate with a more functional adipokine profile that improves fat graft survival.METHODS: Suction-assisted lipoaspirate was harvested from humans and was either processed by centrifugation, rolled on Telfa gauze, or left unprocessed. Progenitor cell populations were quantified and characterized by flow cytometry. Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase assay was used to measure the functional adipocytes. The lipoaspirates were grafted into (n = 45) wild-type mice and harvested to assess fat graft persistence. Vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor-BB secretions were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique.RESULTS: Centrifuged lipoaspirate had a greater number of progenitor cells per gram of tissue than Telfa-processed and unprocessed lipoaspirate. However, Telfa-processed lipoaspirate had a greater number of functional adipocytes (0.104 U/ml) than centrifuged (0.080 U/ml) and unprocessed lipoaspirate (0.083 U/ml) on glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase assay (p<0.05). After 10 weeks of grafting, it had greater fat graft persistence (70.9 \xc2\xb1 6.2 percent) than centrifuged (56.7 \xc2\xb1 5.5 percent) and unprocessed lipoaspirate (42.2 \xc2\xb1 2.7 percent) (p<0.05). It also maintained a greater secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor-BB at weeks 1 and 2 than centrifuged and unprocessed lipoaspirate. Furthermore, CD31 staining demonstrated an increase in vascular density of the Telfa-processed lipoaspirate at week 2 compared with the centrifuged lipoaspirate (37 \xc2\xb1 1 percent and 14 \xc2\xb1 4 percent per high-power field; p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Lipoaspirate processing technique has a significant impact on fat graft survival rate. Increasing the number of functional adipocytes by processing the fat on Telfa gauze may augment the secretion of angiogenic and mitogenic adipokines within the graft, thereby improving its survivability.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adipocytes#Adipokines#Adult#Animals#Biomarkers#Centrifugation#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique#Graft Survival#Humans#Lipectomy#Male#Mice#Middle Aged#Specimen Handling#Subcutaneous Fat#Transplantation, Heterologous'
b"BACKGROUND: Understanding the precise anatomy in experimental animals is crucial for correct design of research projects. Rats are commonly used for scientific research in plastic surgery because of their availability in academic institutions, moderate cost, and sizable vessels for microsurgical procedures. In past publications about rat anatomy, lymphatic mapping has been limited and incomplete. The aim of this study was to comprehensively map the superficial lymphatic system in the rat.METHODS: Twenty-seven Sprague-Dawley rats were used for this study. Indocyanine green fluorescence lymphography was used to identify the lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes. Under general anaesthesia, indocyanine green was injected intradermally at multiple spots along the dorsal and medial midlines, front and hind paws, ears, and tail. The course of the lymphatic vessels was traced on the skin with a marker pen and photographed. The superficial lymphatic vessels in each rat were sketched on a graphic template and all of the templates were superimposed using graphics software to define the relationship between the lymphatic vessel and sentinel node.RESULTS: Indocyanine green fluorescence lymphography was able to demonstrate the superficial lymphatic vessels in the rat. Six groups of regional lymph node/s were identified and lymphatic pathways to those nodes delineated. The authors' lymphosome concept was successfully applied to the rat, with six lymphosomes identified.CONCLUSIONS: The authors succeeded in performing superficial lymphatic mapping in the rat. The authors' anatomical findings can provide further information about the lymphatic system in the normal state and promote understanding of pathologic changes generated by surgical manipulation for future studies. labels: #Animals#Female#Fluorescent Dyes#Indocyanine Green#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Vessels#Lymphography#Male#Models, Animal#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Skin"
b'BACKGROUND: Although surgical excision and intralesional collagenase injection are mainstays in Dupuytren disease treatment, no effective medical therapy exists for recurrent disease. Compound 21, a selective agonist of the angiotensin II type 2 receptor, has been shown to protect against fibrosis in models of myocardial infarction and stroke. The authors investigated the potential use of compound 21 in the treatment of Dupuytren disease.METHODS: Human dermal fibroblasts were treated in vitro with compound 21 and assessed for viability using a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, migration by means of scratch assay, and profibrotic gene transcription by means of quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Compound 21 effects in vivo were assessed using a xenograft model. Dupuytren disease cord specimens from patients undergoing open partial fasciectomy were divided into two segments. Segments were implanted under the dorsal skin of nude mouse pairs. Beginning on day 5, one mouse from each pair received daily intraperitoneal injections of compound 21 (10 \xce\xbcg/kg/day), and the other received vehicle. On day 10, segments were explanted and submitted for immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: Human dermal fibroblasts treated with compound 21 displayed decreased migration and decreased gene expression of connective tissue growth factor, fibroblast specific protein-1, transforming growth factor-\xce\xb21, Smad3, and Smad4. Dupuytren disease segments from compound 21-treated mice demonstrated significantly reduced alpha-smooth muscle actin and Ki67 staining, with increased density of CD31 staining vessels.CONCLUSIONS: Compound 21 significantly decreases expression of profibrotic genes and decreases myofibroblast proliferation as indicated by reduced Ki67 and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. These findings support compound 21 as a potential novel treatment modality for Dupuytren disease. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Biomarkers#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Cells, Cultured#Drug Administration Schedule#Dupuytren Contracture#Female#Fibroblasts#Humans#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Random Allocation#Receptor, Angiotensin, Type 2#Sulfonamides#Thiophenes'
b'BACKGROUND: The Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant associated with proximal row carpectomy has been used to treat symptomatic advanced carpal collapse, widening the indications of proximal row carpectomy to patients with capitate head arthritis. The authors retrospectively compared their case series of implant versus carpectomy alone, analyzing whether prosthetic implant outcomes could be similar to those of proximal row carpectomy even with a higher stage of osteoarthritis.METHODS: Fifty-seven patients who underwent surgery for wrist osteoarthritis (minimum follow-up, 2 years) were selected retrospectively. Twenty-five patients (scapholunate advanced collapse/scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse stage III to IV and Kienb\xc3\xb6ck disease stage IV) underwent proximal row carpectomy plus Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant (group A); 32 patients (scapholunate advanced collapse/scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse stage I to II and Kienb\xc3\xb6ck disease stage III) underwent carpectomy alone (group B). Mean follow-up was 33 months. Patients were evaluated clinically and radiographically. Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire scores were assessed.RESULTS: Group A showed consistent pain relief (visual analogue scale score of 2), while preserving wrist mobility (flexion, 27 degrees; extension, 33 degrees) and grip strength (54 percent compared with the contralateral side). Average Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire score was 20, and average Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation score was 28. No statistically significant difference was observed between groups for all outcomes, except for better extension (p<0.05) in group B.CONCLUSIONS: Even starting from a higher grade of osteoarthritis, Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant plus proximal row carpectomy showed satisfying results, compared with those obtained with just carpectomy. Data show that indications for proximal row carpectomy can be widened by using the implant, without worsening outcomes. The implant could be a useful alternative to more aggressive salvage procedures in case of capitate head and lunate fossa osteoarthritis involvement.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement#Carbon#Carpal Bones#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Joint Prosthesis#Male#Middle Aged#Osteoarthritis#Radiography#Retrospective Studies#Wrist Joint'
b"BACKGROUND: The effects of orthognathic surgery go beyond objective cephalometric correction of facial and dental disproportion and malocclusion, respectively. The authors hypothesized that there is tangible improvement following surgery that alters publicly perceived personality traits and emotions.METHODS: The authors used Amazon.com's Mechanical Turk (MTurk), a crowdsourcing tool, to determine how preoperative and postoperative images of orthognathic surgery patients were perceived on six personality traits and six emotional expressions based on posteroanterior and lateral photographs. Blinded respondents provided demographic information and were randomly assigned to one of two sets of 20 photographs (10 subjects before and after surgery).RESULTS: Data on 20 orthognathic surgery patients were collected from 476 individuals. The majority of participants were female (52.6 percent), 18 to 39 years old (67.9 percent), Caucasian (76.6 percent), had some college or technical training or graduated college (72.7 percent), and had an annual income between $20,000 and $99,999 (74.6 percent). A paired t test analysis found that subjects were perceived significantly more favorably after orthognathic surgery in 12 countenance categories: more dominant, trustworthy, friendly, intelligent, attractive, and happy; and also less threatening, angry, surprised, sad, afraid, and disgusted (p<0.05). Raters with the highest annual income perceived a greater magnitude of dominance after surgery than those earning less (p<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: There is significant improvement in the countenance of patients after orthognathic surgery, with both perceived personality traits and emotions deemed more favorable. Additional work is needed to better understand the physiologic underpinnings of such findings. Crowdsourcing technology offers a unique opportunity for surgeons to gather data regarding laypeople's perceptions of surgical outcomes in areas such as orthognathic surgery. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Crowdsourcing#Emotions#Facial Expression#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Orthognathic Surgical Procedures#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Personality#Postoperative Period#Preoperative Period#Single-Blind Method#Social Perception#United States#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: The relationships between hospital/surgeon characteristics and operative outcomes and cost are being scrutinized increasingly. In patients with craniosynostosis specifically, the relationship between hospital volume and outcomes has yet to be characterized.METHODS: Subjects undergoing craniosynostosis surgery between 2004 and 2015 were identified in the Pediatric Health Information System. Outcomes were compared between two exposure groups, those undergoing treatment at a high-volume institution (>40 cases per year), and those undergoing treatment at a low-volume institution (40 cases per year). Primary outcomes were any complication, prolonged length of stay, and increased total cost.RESULTS: Over 13,000 patients (n = 13,112) from 49 institutions met inclusion criteria. In multivariate regression analyses, subjects treated in high-volume centers were less likely to experience any complication (OR, 0.764; p<0.001), were less likely to have an extended length of stay (OR, 0.624; p<0.001), and were less likely to have increased total cost (OR, 0.596; p<0.001). Subjects undergoing strip craniectomy in high-volume centers were also less likely to have any complication (OR, 0.708; p = 0.018) or increased total cost (OR, 0.51; p<0.001). Subjects undergoing midvault reconstruction in high-volume centers were less likely to experience any complications (OR, 0.696; p = 0.002), have an extended length of stay (OR, 0.542; p<0.001), or have increased total cost (OR, 0.495; p<0.001).CONCLUSION: In hospitals performing a high volume of craniosynostosis surgery, subjects had significantly decreased odds of experiencing a complication, prolonged length of stay, or increased total cost compared with those undergoing treatment in low-volume institutions.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III. labels: #Child, Preschool#Craniosynostoses#Databases, Factual#Female#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Hospitals, Pediatric#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Length of Stay#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Orthopedic Procedures#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#United States'
b'To make three-dimensional computer-assisted elastic models for the face, we decided on five requirements: (1) an elastic texture like skin and subcutaneous tissue; (2) the ability to take pen marking for incisions; (3) the ability to be cut with a surgical knife; (4) the ability to keep stitches in place for a long time; and (5) a layered structure. After testing many elastic solvents, we have made realistic three-dimensional computer-assisted two-layer elastic models of the face and cleft lip from the computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging stereolithographic data. The surface layer is made of polyurethane and the inner layer is silicone. Using this elastic model, we taught residents and young doctors how to make several typical local flaps and to perform cheiloplasty. They could experience realistic simulated surgery and understand three-dimensional movement of the flaps. labels: #Cleft Lip#Face#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Infant#Japan#Lip#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Models, Anatomic#Polyurethanes#Printing, Three-Dimensional#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Silicones#Simulation Training#Surgical Flaps#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b"BACKGROUND: Open tibia fractures are commonly stratified by the Gustilo classification, an orthopedic grading system that does not incorporate the presence of arterial injury when limb perfusion is intact. In the authors' experience, however, the presence of arterial injury appears to negatively impact microsurgical outcomes.METHODS: In a retrospective review of 806 lower extremity reconstructions between 1979 and 2016, 361 soft-tissue flaps performed for Gustilo type IIIB/C coverage met inclusion criteria. Patient demographics, flap characteristics, and outcomes were analyzed.RESULTS: Most patients suffered type IIIB [n = 332 (91.9 percent)] injuries; 29 (8.0 percent) had type IIIC injuries. Preoperative angiography [n = 243 (67.3 percent)]demonstrated arterial injury in 126 (51.8 percent); 27 arterial injuries were identified intraoperatively; and the overall incidence was 153 of 361 (42.4 percent). Complications occurred in 143 flaps (39.6 percent) and included 37 partial losses (10.2 percent) and 31 total losses (8.6 percent). Injured recipient arteries [n = 62 (17.2 percent)] had more complications (p = 0.004); specifically, increased take-backs (p = 0.009). Decreasing vessel runoff increased the risk of complications (p = 0.025), take-backs (p = 0.007), and total flap failures (p = 0.024) accordingly. Specifically, among grade IIIB injuries, controlling for age, sex, time since injury, and vein number, single-vessel runoff was associated with higher rates of complications (relative risk, 3.07; p = 0.012), take-backs (relative risk, 3.43; p = 0.013), and total flap failures (relative risk, 4.80; p = 0.010) compared with three-vessel runoff.CONCLUSIONS: Arterial injury was common among Gustilo type IIIB patients and correlated with increased reconstructive complications. Nonischemic arterial injury appears to negatively impact reconstructive outcomes and should be accounted for when considering free tissue transfer for lower extremity salvage. The authors propose a 3-2-1 modification of the Gustilo type IIIB classification to incorporate degree of arterial injury, as it appears to add prognostic value and certainly influences the reconstructive plan.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, IV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arteries#Child#Female#Fibula#Fractures, Open#Free Tissue Flaps#Humans#Leg Injuries#Limb Salvage#Male#Middle Aged#Popliteal Artery#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Tibial Arteries#Tibial Fractures#Trauma Severity Indices#Treatment Outcome#Vascular System Injuries#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: Many plastic surgeons use social media as a marketing tool to attract and retain patients, but information about how patients use social media and their preferred types of plastic surgery posts have been lacking.METHODS: To investigate patients' preferred social media networks and the type of posts they wished to see, a cross-sectional study was conducted in a single aesthetic practice of two plastic surgeons by surveying 100 consecutive patients.RESULTS: The age of the patients averaged 44.4 years (range, 17 to 78 years). Facebook had the greatest patient use and engagement, with YouTube second in use, and Instagram second in number of engaged users. Over half used Pinterest, but with little daily engagement. Only one-fourth used Snapchat, but the percentage of users who were highly engaged was second only to Facebook. The least popular network was Twitter, with the fewest patient users and least engagement. Social media played a minor role compared with the practice's Web site in both influencing patients to choose the practice and providing information on the day of the appointment. Patients most wanted to see posts on a plastic surgeon's social media platform related to practice information, before-and-after photographs, and contests. Articles about plastic surgery held the least interest. Among five types of Web site content, patients expressed most interest in before-and-after photographs.CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to articulate the plastic surgery patient perspective regarding social media. The findings aim to help plastic surgeons maximize their influence on their target audience. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#California#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Male#Marketing of Health Services#Middle Aged#Patient Preference#Physician-Patient Relations#Social Media#Surgery, Plastic#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and Plastic Surgery Milestone Project has identified practice-based learning and improvement, which involves systematically analyzing current practices and implementing changes, as a core competency in residency education. In surgical care, complication reporting is an essential component of practice-based learning and improvement as complications are analyzed in morbidity and mortality conference for quality improvement. Unfortunately, current methods for capturing a comprehensive profile of complications may significantly underestimate the true occurrence of complications. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to evaluate an intervention for complication reporting and compare this to current practice, in a plastic surgery training program.METHODS: This is a preintervention and postintervention study evaluating resident reporting of complications on a plastic surgery service. The intervention was an online event reporting system developed by department leadership and patient safety experts. The cohorts consisted of all patients undergoing surgery during two separate 3-month blocks bridged by an implementation period. A trained reviewer recorded complications, and this served as the reference standard. Fisher's exact test was used for binary comparisons.RESULTS: There were 32 complications detected in 219 patients from June to August of 2015 and 35 complications in 202 patients from October to December of 2015. The proportion of complications reported in the preintervention group was nine of 32 (28.1 percent). After the intervention, this significantly increased to 32 of 35 (91.4 percent) (p<0.001).CONCLUSION: An intervention using an event reporting system, supported by departmental leadership, led to significant improvements in complication reporting by plastic surgery residents. labels: #Clinical Competence#Data Collection#Documentation#Humans#Internet#Internship and Residency#Medical Records Systems, Computerized#Missouri#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Pediatrics#Postoperative Complications#Quality Improvement#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgery, Plastic"
b"Virtual reality and augmented reality devices have recently been described in the surgical literature. The authors have previously explored various iterations of these devices, and although they show promise, it has become clear that virtual reality and/or augmented reality devices alone do not adequately meet the demands of surgeons. The solution may lie in a hybrid technology known as mixed reality, which merges many virtual reality and augmented realty features. Microsoft's HoloLens, the first commercially available mixed reality device, provides surgeons intraoperative hands-free access to complex data, the real environment, and bidirectional communication. This report describes the use of HoloLens in the operating room to improve decision-making and surgical workflow. The pace of mixed reality-related technological development will undoubtedly be rapid in the coming years, and plastic surgeons are ideally suited to both lead and benefit from this advance. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Holography#Humans#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgery, Computer-Assisted#User-Computer Interface#Workflow"
b"RATIONALE: Giant fibrovascular polyps (GFVPs) found in the hypopharynx are exceedingly rare. These are benign tumors which are identified by CT or MRI and usually treated based on symptoms. Even more rarely, pathology may identify one of these masses as an atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT). This paper will present a case of an ALT of the hypopharynx that was originally classified as a GFVP, highlighting the difficulty in distinguishing between them and the importance of making the correct diagnosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: An 84-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 6-month history of a pedunculated hypopharyngeal growth, dysphagia, and intermittent dyspnea.DIAGNOSES: The mass was characterized as a GFVP by barium swallow and MRI.INTERVENTIONS: The hypopharyngeal mass was resected for obstructive symptoms and to confirm the diagnosis. Final pathology found the mass to be more consistent with an atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT).OUTCOMES: The patient's dysphagia and dyspnea resolved. He was free of recurrence at 22 months postoperative.LESSONS: Both GFVPs and ALTs are very rarely found in the hypopharynx but can be easily misclassified as one another. Imaging is useful to initially characterize the mass, but to definitively differentiate between them, pathological analysis is necessary. Although they are rare, it is important to consider both possibilities on the differential for hypopharyngeal masses. Further, accurate analysis is essential to distinguish between them because their definitive management and follow-up is different. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Deglutition Disorders#Diagnosis, Differential#Dyspnea#Humans#Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms#Lipoma#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Polyps"
b'This study aimed to explore the value of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scans in the differential diagnosis of atypical adenomatous hyperplasia, adenocarcinoma in situ, minimal invasive adenocarcinoma (MIA), and invasive adenocarcinoma (IAC), which manifested as ground glass nodules (GGNs) or mixed GGNs.Unenhanced and contrast-enhanced presurgical CT images of 136 cases of GGNs were compared. The nodules were diagnosed based on their solid portions and maximum dimensions, and the findings obtained using both contrast-enhanced and unenhanced CT images were analyzed in corroboration with the pathological diagnosis.Most (53/56) preinvasive nodules showed increased mean CT values after contrast administration. In the MIA group, after contrast administration, enlargements of the solid portions were seen in 48 nodules (48/60), and the elevation of the mean CT value was observed in 12 nodules (12/60). The vast majority of IAC nodules (29/30) showed enlargement of the solid portions after contrast administration. Moreover, for group differences, findings obtained using this approach statistically match the pathological findings.Contrast-enhanced CT scans are more useful than unenhanced CT scans for the diagnosis of GGNs, especially for pure GGNs, before surgery. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenocarcinoma in Situ#Contrast Media#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Hyperplasia#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Radiographic Image Enhancement#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: We compared the effectiveness and safety of endotracheal intubation using the GlideScope (GS) video laryngoscope, CTrach laryngeal mask airway (LMA), or Shikani optical stylet rigid laryngoscope (SOS) during elective cervical surgery.METHODS: Forty-five patients undergoing elective cervical surgery were randomly and equally assigned to endotracheal intubation via GS, LMA, or SOS airway management.RESULTS: Endotracheal intubation was successfully completed in all patients. The mean intubation times of the groups differed significantly (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01): GS, 17.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.1\xe2\x80\x8as; SOS, 40.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a13.7\xe2\x80\x8as; and LMA, 80.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a22.5\xe2\x80\x8as. The groups had similar heart rates and mean arterial pressures throughout the intubation, except that at 2\xe2\x80\x8aminutes after intubation the mean arterial pressure of the GS group (106.1\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg) was significantly higher than that of the LMA (89.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg) or SOS (89.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01). The change in C2-5 Cobb angle from baseline was significantly higher in the GS group (GS, 34.2\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.3\xc2\xb0) than the LMA (24.4\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5.8\xc2\xb0) or SOS (25.5\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a6.4\xc2\xb0); P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).CONCLUSIONS: The CTrach LMA and SOS rigid laryngoscope are effective, safe alternatives to the GS video laryngoscope for patients undergoing elective cervical surgery. labels: #Cervical Vertebrae#Female#Hemorrhage#Hoarseness#Humans#Intubation, Intratracheal#Laryngeal Masks#Laryngoscopes#Male#Middle Aged#Pain'
b'Neuroendocrine tumors of the thymus (NETTs) are rare but aggressive, and lead to poor overall survival. This retrospective study was designed to analyze factors that correlate with the prognosis of patients with NETTs.From 1999 to 2015, 41 ongoing patients with NETTs were enrolled in this study. The clinical data and outcome were compiled. Overall survival (OS) rate was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method in univariate analysis and the Cox-model was used in multivariate analysis.Of the 41 NETTs patients analyzed (31 male and 10 female), 12 were typical carcinoma, 14 were atypical carcinoma, 14 were small-cell carcinoma and, 1 was large-cell carcinoma. The median follow-up time was 29 months (range, 9.0-69.0). In total, 25 patients died of cancer-related disease by the last follow-up. The 3- and 5-year survival rates for all patients were 42.7% and 23.4%, respectively. Among the prognostic factors analyzed by multivariate analysis, low tumor grade, complete resection, and a negative chromogranin A (CgA) expression were positively correlated with survival.The surgical treatment of NETTs, CgA negative, and low grade of NETTs were associated with a statistically significant better prognosis. However, large, multicenter studies are required to fully validate these prognostic factors. labels: #Adult#Aged#Chromogranin A#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Grading#Neoplasm Staging#Neuroendocrine Tumors#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Thymus Neoplasms'
b"RATIONALE: Bilateral acute iris transillumination (BAIT) is a poorly-understood ocular syndrome in which patients present with acute iridocyclitis and pigmentary dispersion with or without ocular hypertension. The etiology of the disease remains unknown, though recent reports suggest an antecedent upper respiratory tract infection or systemic antibiotic administration may trigger the clinical syndrome.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old female was referred for a second opinion regarding her bilateral ocular pain, photophobia, and ocular hypertension. Her medical history was notable for a diagnosis of pneumonia managed with oral moxifloxacin several weeks prior to her initial presentation.DIAGNOSES: Visual acuity was 20/40 with an intraocular pressure (IOP) of 30\xe2\x80\x8ammHg in the affected eye despite maximal tolerated medical therapy. The patient had severe bilateral iris transillumination defects with posterior synechiae formation and 3+ pigment with rare cell in the anterior chamber. This constellation of findings was consistent with a diagnosis of BAIT.INTERVENTIONS: A peripheral iridotomy was placed, which mildly relieved the iris bowing, but did not affect the IOP or inflammatory reaction. The patient then underwent cataract extraction with posterior synechiolysis and ab interno trabeculotomy of the left eye with the Trabectome.OUTCOMES: The patient's IOP on the first post-operative day was 13\xe2\x80\x8ammHg, and anterior chamber inflammation was noted to be significantly reduced at post-operative week 2. The patient was recently seen at a 1-year post-operative visit and her IOP remains in the low teens on a low-dose combination topical agent.LESSONS: Ophthalmologists should remain aware of the association between systemic fluoroquinolones and acute pigmentary dispersion that can progress to glaucoma. The Trabectome remains a viable option for management of pigmentary and uveitic glaucoma resistant to medical treatment. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Cataract Extraction#Eye Pain#Female#Fluoroquinolones#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Middle Aged#Ocular Hypertension#Photophobia#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Trabeculectomy"
b'RATIONALE: Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) is a rare disease of lymphomatous effusion in the body cavities in the absence of detectable mass and lymphadenopathy. PEL is predominantly related to the immunosuppressed patients infected with human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8). PEL-like lymphoma is negative for HHV-8 and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) unlike PEL. The pathogenesis and prognosis of PEL-like lymphoma are unclear and there is no established treatment yet.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 73-year-old male patient was admitted for evaluation of dyspnea on exertion with 1-week duration. His relevant examinations were completed.DIAGNOSES: PEL-like lymphoma was diagnosed.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received chemotherapy including rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP), and palliative whole-brain radiotherapy, sequentially.OUTCOMES: He died 3 months after the diagnosis.LESSON: Although the prognosis of PEL-like lymphoma may be better than PEL, our case showed poor disease course despite chemotherapy. labels: #Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Brain Neoplasms#Cardiac Tamponade#Cyclophosphamide#Doxorubicin#Dyspnea#Herpesvirus 8, Human#Humans#Immunocompetence#Lymphoma, Primary Effusion#Male#Palliative Care#Prednisone#Radiotherapy#Treatment Outcome#Vincristine'
b'RATIONALE: A 33-year-old male presented with complete weakness of the right extremities due to corona radiata infarct.PATIENT CONCERNS: The main concerns of the patient is recovery of hand function especially related to finger extension.DIAGNOSES: Right corona radiata infarct.INTERVENTIONS: He underwent physical therapy and occupational therapy at the outpatient clinic of the rehabilitation department of the same university hospital until 2 years after onset. In addition, he underwent neuromuscular electrical stimulation for the right finger extensors continuously until 4 years after onset.OUTCOMES: At 6 months after onset, the weakness of his right side recovered to subnormal state except for the right finger extensors which were completely weak. At 1.5 years after onset, the right finger extensors began to show slow and continuous recovery. At 4 years after onset, the patient showed motor recovery in the right finger extensors to the extent that he was able to move against gravity. Discontinuation of the left corticospinal tract was observed on 2-month diffusion tensor tractography (DTT); however, the integrity of this discontinuation had recovered to the primary motor cortex on 4-year DTT. On 2-month transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), no motor-evoked potential was evoked; in contrast, motor-evoked potentials were obtained at the right-hand muscle on 4-year TMS study.LESSONS: We demonstrated unusual delayed and long-term recovery of the affected finger extensors in a patient with corona radiata infarct using DTT and TMS. labels: #Adult#Brain Infarction#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Electric Stimulation Therapy#Fingers#Humans#Male#Recovery of Function#Stroke Rehabilitation#Time Factors#Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation'
b'The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic value of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging for differentiating superficial lymph nodes.Virtual touch tissue imaging (VTI) grade and shear wave velocity (SWV) were analyzed and compared in 97 patients (65 women, 32 men; mean age, 49 y; range, 23-72 y) with 97 lymph nodes [23 chronic nonspecific reactive lymph nodes (CLNs), 38 metastatic lymph nodes (MLNs), and 36 blood and lymphatic system diseases lymph nodes (BLLNs)]. The elastography characteristics in patients with CLNs, MLNs, and BLLNs were compared using the nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis test and Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables and categorical variables. The diagnostic performance of VTI grade and SWV were evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).The median of SWV of MLNs was significantly higher (2.90\xe2\x80\x8am/s) than those of CLNs (2.15\xe2\x80\x8am/s) and BLLNs (2.52\xe2\x80\x8am/s). The VTI grade of MLNs was significantly higher than those of CLNs (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and BLLNs (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and AUC were 81.58%, 95.65%, 86.89%, and 0.904, respectively, at a cutoff level of grade IV for VTI grade in differentiating MLNs from CLNs, whereas those of SWV were 57.89%, 86.96%, 68.85%, and 0.752, respectively, at a cutoff level of 2.76\xe2\x80\x8am/s.The diagnostic performance of VTI grade was significantly higher than that of SWV in differentiating MLNs from CLNs. The diagnostic performance of VTI grade and SWV were lower intermediate in differentiating MLNs from BLLNs and in differentiating BLLNs from CLNs, and there was no significant difference between VTI grade and SWV. ARFI imaging may be a feasible method for differentiating MLNs from CLNs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Diagnosis, Differential#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Hematologic Neoplasms#Humans#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Diseases#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#Ultrasonography#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: We investigated the effects of TRPC1 on epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) in human airway in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).METHODS: A total of 94 patients who underwent lobectomy were selected and divided into COPD (49 cases) and control (45 cases) groups. Immunohistochemistry was applied to detect expression of E-cadherin and vimentin and TRPC1. Correlation of TRPC1 expression with E-cadherin and vimentin expression, and correlations of lung function indicators in COPD patients with expression of TRPC1, E-cadherin, and vimentin were analyzed. Human airway epithelial cells (16HBE) were used for cell experiments; and cigarette smoking extract (CSE) was adopted to establish the COPD model using TRPC1 recombinant plasmids and siRNA. Cells were assigned into the control, CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC, and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-TRPC1 groups. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot were implemented to detect expression of TRPC1, E-cadherin, and vimentin.RESULTS: Compared with the control group, expression of TRPC1 and vimentin significantly increased while expression of E-cadherin decreased in the COPD group, and protein expression of TRPC1 was positively correlated with the protein expression of vimentin but negatively correlated with the protein expression of E-cadherin. Patients exhibiting positive expression of TRPC1 had lower FEV1, FEV1%Pred, and FEV1/FVC, compared with the patients exhibiting negative expression of TRPC1. Compared with the control group, expression of TRPC1 and vimentin increased, whereas expression of E-cadherin decreased in the CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1, and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups. Compared with the CSE and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector groups, the expression of TRPC1 and vimentin increased but the expression of E-cadherin decreased in the CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1 group. Compared with the CSE and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups, the expression of TRPC1 and vimentin decreased but the expression of E-cadherin increased in the CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-TRPC1 group. No significant differences were observed among the CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups.CONCLUSION: Overexpression of TRPC1 in COPD promoted EMT process and TRPC1 may be a new and interesting focus for COPD new treatment in the future. labels: #Adult#Aged#Blotting, Western#Cadherins#Cells, Cultured#Epithelial Cells#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Female#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lung#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#TRPC Cation Channels#Vimentin'
b"The main objective of this study is to investigate the outcome between surgical procedures and the risk of development of hypoparathyroidism followed by surgical procedure in patients with thyroid disorders.We analyzed the data acquired from Taiwan's Bureau of National Health Insurance (BNHI) research database from 1998 to 2011 and found 9316 patients with thyroid surgery. Cox regression model was used to calculate the hazard ratio (HR).A count of 314 cases (3.4%) of hypoparathyroidism was identified. The 9 years cumulated incidence of hypoparathyroidism was the highest in patient undergone bilateral total thyroidectomy (13.5%) and the lowest in the patient with unilateral subtotal thyroidectomy (1.2%). However, in the patients who had undergone unilateral subtotal, the risk was the highest in bilateral total (HR: 11.86), followed by radical thyroidectomy with unilateral neck lymph node dissection (HR: 8.56), unilateral total (HR, 4.39), and one side total and another side subtotal (HR: 2.80).The extent of thyroid resection determined the risk of development of hypoparathyroidism. It is suggested that the association of these factors is investigated in future studies. labels: #Humans#Hypoparathyroidism#Incidence#Lymph Node Excision#Postoperative Complications#Risk Factors#Taiwan#Thyroid Diseases#Thyroidectomy#Time Factors"
b'We compared the oncological outcomes of sphincter-saving resection (SSR) and abdominoperineal resection (APR) in 409 consecutive patients with very low rectal cancer (i.e., tumors within 3\xe2\x80\x8acm from the anal verge); 335 (81.9%) patients underwent APR and 74 (18.1%) underwent SSR. The APR group comprised higher proportions of men (67.5% vs 55.4%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.049) and advanced-stage patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Preoperative chemoradiotherapy (PCRT) was more frequently administered in the SSR group (83.8% vs 52.8%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Overall, the systemic and local recurrence rates were 29.1% and 6.1%, respectively. On stratification according to PCRT and pathologic stage, the mode of surgery did not affect the recurrence type. Moreover, recurrence-free survival (RFS) did not differ according to the mode of surgery in different cancer stages. RFS was associated with ypT and ypN stages in patients who received PCRT, while pN stage, lymphovascular invasion (LVI), and circumferential resection margin (CRM) involvement were risk factors for RFS in those who did not receive PCRT. Notably, SSR was not found to be a risk factor for RFS in either subgroup. Patients who were stratified according to cancer stage and PCRT also showed no differences in RFS according to the mode of surgery. Our results demonstrate that, regardless of PCRT administration, SSR is an effective treatment for very low rectal cancer, while CRM is an important prognostic factor for patients who did not receive PCRT. labels: #Anal Canal#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Capecitabine#Chemoradiotherapy#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Perineum#Rectal Neoplasms#Rectum#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: We report on a patient with mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) by follow-up diffusion tensor tractography (DTT), and observed for approximately nine monthsby serial diffusion tensor tractography (DTT).PATIENT CONCERNS: A 66-year-old male patient was injured in a car crash. Approximately four weeks after the crash, he developed a tremor in the right hand and leg. His symptoms worsened over time.DIAGNOSES: Approximately six months after the crash, he developed a mild tremor in the left hand. Nine months after the crash, he manifested severe tremor in his right hand, mild resting and intentional tremor in his left hand and both legs, and mild trunkal ataxia.INTERVENTIONS: N/A.OUTCOMES: On 3-week DTT, well reconstructed DRTTs were observed in both hemispheres, except for the thinned lower portion of the right DRTT. On 9-month DTT, the right lower DRTT had thinned compared with the 3-week DTT and showed a disruption at the upper portion. The left DRTT showed thinning in the lower portion and tearing in the upper portion compared with 3-week DTT.LESSONS: Aggravation of an injured DRTT was demonstrated in a patient with mild TBI, using serial DTT examination. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Aged#Ataxia#Brain Concussion#Cerebellar Nuclei#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Efferent Pathways#Follow-Up Studies#Hand#Humans#Leg#Male#Thalamus#Tremor'
b"The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prescription trend and pattern of oral antidiabetic (OAD) medications, which are extensively used worldwide for treating type 2 diabetes, in 2 age groups.In this population-based study, data obtained from the National Health Insurance Research Database, Taiwan, were analyzed to investigate the prescription trend of all types of OAD medications during 2005 to 2012. We used descriptive statistics to demonstrate the trend of prescription patterns stratified by age (aged 65 years and above or younger than 65).Sulfonylurea (SU) was once the most commonly used drug, but the proportion of its prescription had declined gradually (76.83% in 2005 to 63.70% in 2012). Consequently, biguanide (BG) became the most commonly used drug since 2010 (64.31% in 2005 to 74.41% in 2012). In addition, the prescriptions of thiazolidinedione decreased significantly (9.20% in 2005 to 2.86% in 2012), whereas the usage of DPP-4 inhibitor increased with time (3.73% in 2009 to 19.64% in 2012). The treatment choice of SU and \xce\xb1-glucosidase inhibitor (AGI) was higher in elderly patients compared with the younger population (SU: 62.70% in 2012, AGI: 12.78% in 2012). Two-drug combination therapies were the prevalent treatment choices for patients with type 2 diabetes (44.77% in 2012), particularly in the elderly group; however, \xe2\x89\xa53 drug combination therapies increased gradually during the study period, particularly in the younger group.This descriptive study presents the change in the prescription of OAD medication for different age groups during 2005 to 2012. labels: #Administration, Oral#Age Factors#Aged#Biguanides#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dipeptidyl-Peptidase IV Inhibitors#Drug Therapy, Combination#Glycoside Hydrolase Inhibitors#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Middle Aged#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Sulfonylurea Compounds#Taiwan#Thiazolidinediones"
b'Interleukin (IL)-27, one of cytokines in the IL-12 family, is considered to have both pro- and anti-inflammatory properties. However, blood IL-27 levels in coronary artery disease (CAD) have not been fully elucidated yet. This cross-sectional study was done to elucidate the association between blood IL-27 levels and CAD.We investigated plasma IL-27 and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels in 274 consecutive patients who underwent elective coronary angiography for suspected CAD. CAD was present in 177 patients [30 acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and 147 stable CAD]. Compared with 97 patients without CAD, 177 patients with CAD had higher IL-27 (median 0.26 vs 0.22\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and higher hsCRP (0.98 vs 0.41\xe2\x80\x8amg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) levels. However, there was no significant difference in IL-27 levels among 3 groups of ACS, stable CAD, and CAD(-) (0.26, 0.25, and 0.22\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL), whereas hsCRP levels were significantly higher in ACS and stable CAD than in CAD(-) (2.09, 0.91 vs 0.41\xe2\x80\x8amg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and were highest in ACS. IL-27 levels tended to increase with the number of>50% stenotic coronary vessels: 0.22 in CAD(-), 0.22 in 1-vessel disease, 0.31 in 2-vessel disease, and 0.27\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL in 3-vessel disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). A stepwise increase in hsCRP levels was also found: 0.41 in CAD(-), 0.75 in 1-vessel, 1.05 in 2-vessel, and 1.85\xe2\x80\x8amg/L in 3-vessel disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Plasma hsCRP levels significantly (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.35), but IL-27 levels weakly (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.15), correlated with the number of stenotic coronary segments. In multivariate analysis, both IL-27 and hsCRP levels were independent factors associated with CAD. However, hsCRP, but not IL-27, was also a factor for ACS.While plasma IL-27 levels were high in patients with CAD, these levels were an independent factor for only CAD, not ACS, and weakly correlated with the severity of CAD. Our results suggest that IL-27 is unlikely to be a good biomarker reflecting the severity of CAD or the presence of ACS, or to play a major role in the progression of CAD. labels: #Acute Coronary Syndrome#Aged#Biomarkers#C-Reactive Protein#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Complications#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Inflammation#Interleukin-27#Male#Middle Aged#Severity of Illness Index'
b'RATIONALE: Abdominal apoplexy is a rare and fatal emergency event, which is coined as a comparison to the cerebrovascular apoplexy. The exact mechanism of abdominal apoplexy was unclear, but arteriosclerosis, hypertension, abdominal aneurysm, and other predisposing angiopathy were considered to be the main reasons of abdominal apoplexy. The development of the imaging technology gave us more opportunities to confirm the diagnosis of abdominal apoplexy. However, the diagnosis and identification of the bleeding sites still continued to be a challenge.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old man presented to the emergency department with chief complains of sudden severe abdominal pain.DIAGNOSIS: The patient was diagnosed as abdominal apoplexy with 2 synchronous bleeding sites.INTERVENTIONS: Angiography confirmed diagnosis of abdominal apoplexy and revealed 2 synchronous bleeding sites in gastroduodenal artery (GDA) and inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery (IPDA). Transcatheter embolization was performed immediately.OUTCOMES: The patient recovered and was discharged very soon. Two months later, the patient totally recovered and the hematoma disappeared in the CT imaging.LESSONS: The reported case is rare, given the very low incidence of abdominal apoplexy with 2 synchronous bleeding sites in GDA and IPDA. The awareness of abdominal apoplexy was still the key point in the management of this disease. Quick diagnosis by the imaging and immediate embolization were very important for the treatment. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Arteries#Duodenum#Embolization, Therapeutic#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreas#Rupture, Spontaneous#Stomach'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the association between urinary incontinence (UI) and peptic ulcer (PU) and how this is related to psychological stress in Korean women by analyzing the data from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey IV (KNHANES).A nationally representative sample of data on 7475 Korean women \xe2\x89\xa519 years of age from the KNHANES 2008 to 2010 was included. Physician-diagnosed UI and PU were assessed using questionnaires and surveys. Psychological stress was assessed through a questionnaire using a 4-point Likert scale. Data were analyzed using logistic regression to determine the association between UI and PU according to the level of psychological stress perception.PU was found in 1.41% of the total population. Breaking this down by the existence of UI, PU was found in 3.5% of the population with UI, and 1.4% of the population without UI, which showed a significant difference. A statistically significant trend for increasing prevalence of UI and PU with increasing psychological stress perception levels was found among the study population. Multivariable logistic regression analyses for PU showed that UI was significantly associated with a higher probability of PU in an adjusted model, which means that members of the population with UI were more likely to have PU than those without UI. A higher level of psychological stress perception was also significantly associated with increased odds of PU in the adjusted model.UI could potentiate the development of PU through increasing levels of psychological stress perception. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Nutrition Surveys#Peptic Ulcer#Prevalence#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Statistics as Topic#Stress, Psychological#Surveys and Questionnaires#Urinary Incontinence'
b"BACKGROUND: In the clinical setting, the dispersed practitioners' attention often leads to decreased competence in their performance. We aimed to investigate the effect of distracted practitioners on the quality of chest compression during cardiopulmonary resuscitation.METHODS: A randomized controlled crossover simulation study was conducted. Participants were recruited from among doctors, nurses, and paramedics working in a university tertiary hospital. The paced auditory serial addition test (PASAT) was used as a tool for distracting participants. In the crossover design, each participant played 2 scenarios with a 20-minute time gap, by a random order; 2-minute continuous chest compressions with and without PASAT being conducted. The primary outcome was the percentage of compression with an adequate compression rate. Secondary outcomes were the percentage of compression with adequate depth, the percentage of compression with full chest wall recoil, mean compression rate (per minute), mean compression depth, and subjective difficulty of chest compression.RESULTS: Forty-four participants were enrolled, and all of them completed the study. It was found that the percentage of compression with an adequate compression rate was lower when the PASAT was conducted. Although there was no difference in the percentage of compression with adequate depth (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.88), the percentage of compression with complete chest recoil was lower when PASAT was conducted. In addition, while the mean compression rate was higher when PASAT was conducted, the mean compression depth was not significantly different (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.65). The subjective difficulty was not different (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.69).CONCLUSIONS: Health care providers who are distracted have a negative effect on the quality of chest compression, in terms of its rate and chest wall recoil.TRIAL REGISTRATION: www.ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03124290. labels: #Adult#Attentional Bias#Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Manikins#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Professional Competence#Professionalism#Quality Improvement#Task Performance and Analysis#Time Factors#Work Performance#Workplace"
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the osteoporosis prevalence and the risks of postmenopausal women and elderly men in Gansu province.This cross-sectional study involved 3359 postmenopausal women and 3205 elderly males who were randomly selected from 7 areas in Gansu province. Areal bone mineral density (BMD) (g/cm) was measured at the distal one-third radius of the nonstressed forearm using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA: Osteometer MediTech). Factors related to osteoporosis were analyzed.The prevalence of osteoporosis in the entire study population was 9.65% for postmenopausal women and 8.08% for elderly males by WHO criteria, while the rate of osteopenia were 27.09% for postmenopausal women and 26.68% for elderly males. Risk of osteoporosis was significantly associated with age, menopause age, duration of menopause, body mass index (BMI), educational level, and alcohol consumption in postmenopausal women. In elderly men, age, BMI, current smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and sun exposure were associated with osteoporosis. The bone turnover markers osteocalcin (OC) and C-terminal cross-linked telopeptides of type I collagen (\xce\xb2-CTX) were inversely correlated with BMD in both genders; serum P and 25(OH)D found no significant correlation with BMD. Serum Ca showed a positive effect on BMD in elderly men only.The osteoporosis prevalence of postmenopausal women and the men aged over 60 years in Gansu province is presented. Risk of osteoporosis was significantly associated with age, menopause age, year since menopause, BMI, and educational level in postmenopausal women. In elderly men, age, BMI, and current smoking were associated with osteoporosis. This study also found that higher OC and \xce\xb2-CTX level were associated with lower BMD. Poor 25(OH)D, Ca, P status were not associated with an increased risk of low BMD. labels: #Absorptiometry, Photon#Aged#Biomarkers#Bone Density#China#Collagen Type I#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Life Style#Male#Middle Aged#Osteocalcin#Osteoporosis#Peptides#Postmenopause#Prevalence#Random Allocation#Risk Factors'
b'The aim of this study was to identify clinical signs and symptoms of ovarian torsion (OT) in children and to develop a simple predictive score.A chart review of patients with acute adnexal pathologies treated at the University Children\'s Hospital Basel, Switzerland, between March 2006 and June 2015 was performed. Medical records were screened for demographic and clinical data. These included clinical symptoms, laboratory studies, imaging, and type of treatment. The diagnosis OT was defined as intraoperative visualization of the torsed ovary around its pedicle at least 360 degrees. Variables predictive for OT were identified and the following score for the likelihood of having OT was developed: age (points\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8anumber of years) minus 3 points (if vomitus\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a"yes") and plus 1 point (if "pain duration>12 hours").A total of 80 patients with acute adnexal pathologies were identified. OT was recorded in 17 (21%) cases and ovarian cysts (OC) only in 63 (79%) cases. Patients who presented with OT were significantly younger than patients with OC only (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Correspondingly, 11 (65%) of the patients with OT had no menarche compared to 3 (5%) patients with OC only (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Vomiting (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), a shorter pain duration (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01), and an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01) were observed significantly more often in patients with OT. The sensitivity of a positive OT score was 0.81 and increased to 1.00 if restricted to girls between 2 to 12 years of age.The presence of vomiting, short duration of abdominal pain, and elevated CRP level have a predictive value for the diagnosis of OT. In these patients, an exploratory laparoscopy should be conducted without delay. The presented OT score appears to be a helpful tool in diagnosing OT in children. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Adolescent#C-Reactive Protein#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ovarian Diseases#Ovary#Predictive Value of Tests#Research Design#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity#Switzerland#Symptom Assessment#Torsion Abnormality#Vomiting'
b"The relationship between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after surgery remains uncertain. A retrospective cohort study was performed to evaluate the impact of pre-S deletions, T1762/A1764, and A1896 mutations on prognosis of HCC after curative resection. A total of 113 patients with positive serum HBV DNA (>200\xe2\x80\x8aIU/mL) who had underwent curative resection of pathologically proven HCC were recruited to determine the risk factors affecting the prognosis.The median follow-up time was 36.5 months and recurrence was detected in 67 patients (59.3%). The cumulative recurrence rates and overall survival rates at 1-, 3-, and 5-year after curative resection were 18.0%, 49.7%, 70.3%, and 93.7%, 61.0%, 42.5%, respectively. Patients with pre-S deletions showed significantly higher recurrence rates compared with those with wild type infection (HR: 1.822, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.018), but not related with a significantly poor survival (HR: 1.388, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.235). Subgroup analysis indicated that the patients with type III deletion had significant higher tumor recurrence rates than other deletion types (HR: 2.211, 95% confidence intervals [CI]: 1.008-4.846, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.048). Multivariate analysis revealed that pre-S deletion, tumor size>3\xe2\x80\x8acm in diameter, and the presence of microvascular invasion were independent risk factors for tumor recurrence. HBV pre-S deletions were found to be clustered primarily in the 5' end of pre-S2 region and were more often found between amino acids 120 and 142 of the pre-S2 domain. The domains most frequently potentially involved were the transactivator domain in pre-S2 and polymerized human serum albumin binding site.Our cohort showed that pre-S deletions at the time of resection could predict tumor recurrence in HCC patients after curative resection. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#China#Cohort Studies#DNA, Viral#Female#Hepatectomy#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Sequence Deletion#Statistics as Topic#Survival Analysis"
b'An adhesive small bowel obstruction (ASBO) is generally caused by postoperative adhesions and is more frequently associated with colorectal surgeries than other procedures. We compared the outcomes of operative and conservative management of ASBO after primary colorectal cancer surgery.We retrospectively reviewed 5060 patients who underwent curative surgery for primary colorectal cancer; 388 of these patients (7.7%) were readmitted with a diagnosis of SBO. We analyzed the clinical course of these patients with reference to the cause of their surgery.Of the 388 SBO patients analyzed, 170 were diagnosed with ASBO. Their 3-, 5-, and 7-year recurrence-free survival rates were 86.1%, 72.8%, and 61.5%, respectively. The median follow-up period was 59.2 months. Repeated conservative management for ASBO without surgical management led to higher recurrence rates: 21.0% after the first admission, 41.7% after the second, 60.0% after the third, and 100% after the fourth (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.006). Surgical management was needed for 19.2%, 22.2%, 50%, and 66.7% of patients admitted with ASBO on the first to fourth hospitalizations, respectively. Repeated hospitalization for obstruction led to a greater possibility of surgical management (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Of 27 patients with surgical management at the first admission, 6 (17.6%) were readmitted with a diagnosis of SBO, but there were no further episodes of SBO in the surgically managed patients.Patients who undergo operative management for ASBO have a reduced risk of recurrence requiring hospitalization, whereas those with repeated conservative management have an increased risk of recurrence and require operative management. Operative management should be considered for recurrent SBO. labels: #Adult#Aged#Colorectal Neoplasms#Conservative Treatment#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Intestinal Obstruction#Intestine, Small#Long Term Adverse Effects#Male#Middle Aged#Reoperation#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Tissue Adhesions'
b'BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The approach to small bowel preparation before capsule endoscopy (CE) is still suboptimal.PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred eighty patients were randomly allocated to 3 groups. Patients in Group A took 250\xe2\x80\x8amL 20% mannitol and 1\xe2\x80\x8aL 0.9% saline orally at 05:00\xe2\x80\x8ahours on the day of the procedure. In Group B the same preparation was taken at 20:00 on the day before, and at 05:00 on the day of CE; in addition, 20\xe2\x80\x8amL oral simethicone was taken 30\xe2\x80\x8aminutes before CE. Group C was treated identically to Group B, except that the patients fasted for 3 days and took 3\xe2\x80\x8ag senna orally 3 times daily before CE. The length of bowel containing green luminal contents was assessed by ImageJ software and bowel cleanliness was evaluated by computed assessment of the cleansing score.RESULTS: Cleansing of the whole small bowel and the distal small bowel were significantly different between the 3 groups (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22.470, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000; \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17.029, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, respectively). There were also significant differences between the 3 groups in the length of small bowel and specifically the length of the distal small bowel containing green luminal contents (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12.390, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a15.141, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, respectively), but not with regard to the proximal small bowel (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.678, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.509).CONCLUSIONS: Three days fasting and oral senna, combined with 20% mannitol and simethicone, before CE, can reduce the effects of bile on the small bowel and improve small bowel cleansing, especially in the distal small intestine. labels: #Administration, Oral#Adult#Aged#Capsule Endoscopy#Cathartics#Drug Administration Schedule#Fasting#Female#Gastrointestinal Diseases#Humans#Intestine, Small#Male#Mannitol#Middle Aged#Patient Care Planning#Senna Extract#Simethicone#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Pes anserine (PA) bursitis is an inflammatory condition of the medial knee. The PA bursa becomes more painful when infected, damaged, or irritated. Although various treatment options have been attempted to treat PA bursitis, optimal treatments are still debated. This study aims to investigate the effect of polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) injection on reducing pain and inflammation in a patient presenting with PA bursitis.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 50-year-old female patient was admitted to our pain clinic with symptoms of tenderness and pain over the medial knee. Physical examination revealed the pain to be located over the proximal medial tibia at the insertion of the conjoined tendons of the PA. The knee had lost its range of movement and strength, and resisted knee flexion.DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as having PA bursitis.INTERVENTIONS: Ultrasound guided PA bursa injection was carried out.OUTCOMES: Follow-up for the patient was more than eight months. She showed good improvement in PA bursitis without any complications.LESSONS: This is the first successful report of successful PDRN injection for PA bursa. labels: #Analgesics#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Arthralgia#Bursa, Synovial#Bursitis#Female#Humans#Injections#Knee Joint#Middle Aged#Polydeoxyribonucleotides#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography'
b'The aim of the study is to describe the clinical characteristics and prognosis of malignant transformation of adenomyosis in patients with endometrial cancer.In this retrospective descriptive study, the clinical data of patients with endometrial cancer (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a127) who were admitted at our hospital between January 2006 and December 2013 were evaluated.Among the 127 patients with endometrial cancer, 24 patients had endometrial cancer concurrently with adenomyosis. Among these 24 patients, 3 were diagnosed with malignant transformation of adenomyosis. Postoperative pathological investigations in the cancer+adenomyosis group revealed endometrial adenocarcinoma of Grade I (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a21) and II (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3). The patients with malignant transformation of adenomyosis were relatively younger than the other patients. In those 3 patients, both the estrogen and progesterone receptors were strongly expressed in eutopic endometrium and were weakly positive in ectopic endometrium.Although adenomyosis is usually benign, it might also be a precursor of malignant disease. As the incidence of adenomyosis malignant transformation is low, and its clinical manifestations are nonspecific, it may only be confirmed by postoperative pathological examination. Further investigations on larger sample size may provide additional data about prognosis of adenomyosis malignant transformation. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenomyosis#Adult#Age Factors#Cell Transformation, Neoplastic#China#Choristoma#Endometrial Neoplasms#Endometrium#Female#Humans#Hysterectomy#Incidence#Middle Aged#Myometrium#Neoplasm Grading#Receptors, Estrogen#Receptors, Progesterone#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Thrombocytopenia in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is usually attributed to impaired marrow production resulting from cytotoxic drug use or CMML itself ("CMML-induced thrombocytopenia"). In very rare cases, immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) can be a complication of CMML ("CMML-associated ITP"). However, treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in patients with CMML is still a challenge.PATIENT CONCERNS: Case 1 was a 61-year-old female patient admitted to our hospital because of skin petechiae and purpura for 6 days. She had increased monocyte cell count (1.82\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L), markedly decreased platelet count (2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L), hypercellularity of the megakaryocyte lineage with many immature megakaryocytes, and ZRSR2(zinc finger CCCH-type, RNA binding motif and serine/arginine rich 2) mutation. She failed to the treatment of corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), TPO (thrombopoietin), and cyclosporin A (CsA). Case 2 was a 72-year-old female patient with thrombocytosis and monocytosis for 4 years, and thrombocytopenia for 6 months. After 10 courses of decitabine therapy, she had a persistent severe thrombocytopenia and decreased number of megakaryocytes, TET2 (tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2) and SRSF2 (serine and arginine rich splicing factor 2) mutations were detected. She was dependent on platelet transfusion.DIAGNOSES: Case 1 was diagnosed as CMML-associated ITP, and case 2 as CMML with decitabine therapy-induced thrombocytopenia.INTERVENTIONS: Both patients were treated with eltrombopag.OUTCOMES: In both patients, the platelet counts returned to the normal within 1 week after eltrombopag therapy. The platelet count in case 1 patient remained stable at 141-200\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L for 20 months with stopping therapy for 3 months. In case 2 patient, eltrombopag was stopped 1 month later. Her platelet count decreased to 41\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L, but was stable at \xe2\x88\xbc30\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L for 3 months with platelet transfusion independency for 12 months. Both patients had no adverse effects with eltrombopag.LESSONS: CMML-associated ITP is very rare and easily misdiagnosed. To the best of our knowledge, case 1 is the first reported case of the successful treatment of CMML-associated ITP with eltrombopag. Both CMML-associated ITP and decitabine therapy-induced thrombocytopenia in these 2 patients were highly sensitive and safe to eltrombopag therapy. labels: #Aged#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Azacitidine#Benzoates#DNA-Binding Proteins#Drug Monitoring#Female#Hematologic Agents#Humans#Hydrazines#Leukemia, Myelomonocytic, Chronic#Middle Aged#Mutation#Nuclear Proteins#Platelet Count#Proto-Oncogene Proteins#Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic#Pyrazoles#Ribonucleoproteins#Serine-Arginine Splicing Factors#Thrombocytopenia#Thrombopoietin#Treatment Outcome'
b'The CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores are well-known predictors of stroke caused by atrial fibrillation (AF), but no studies have evaluated their use for stratifying all-cause mortality risk in patients discharged for systolic heart failure (SHF) with or without AF.This study analyzed data in the Taiwan Society of Cardiology-heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (TSOC-HFrEF) registry. These data were obtained by a prospective, multicenter, observational survey of patients treated at 21 medical centers in Taiwan after hospitalization for acute, pre-existing or new onset SHF from May, 2013 to October, 2014. During 1 year follow-up, 198 patients were lost follow-up, and final 1311 (86.8%) patients were included for further analysis. During the follow-up period, 250 (19%) patients died. Multivariate analysis revealed that body mass index, thyroid disorder, valvular surgery history, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and scores for CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 were significant independent predictors of mortality in the overall population of SHF patients (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) The c-indexes showed that CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores were significantly associated with mortality in SHF patients with or without AF (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a005). However, R2CHADS2 had significantly higher accuracy in predicting mortality in all SHF patients compared with CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc (DeLong test, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001), especially in SHF without AF (DeLong test, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0003).Scores for CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 can be used to predict 1-year all-cause mortality in SHF patients with or without AF. For predicting all-cause mortality in SHF patients, R2CHADS2 is more accurate than CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Female#Heart Failure, Systolic#Hospitalization#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Predictive Value of Tests#Prospective Studies#Registries#Research Design#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Taiwan'
b'INTRODUCTION: We report a 39-year-old male patient with a fracture of the right acetabulum undergoing open reduction and internal fixation with a plate under general anesthesia. At closure, the surgeons injected 0.75% ropivacaine into the subcutaneous tissue of the incision wound for postoperative analgesia. Soon after injection, subcutaneous emphysema at the injection site and a sudden decrease in end-tidal CO2 tension with crude oscillatory ripples during the alveolar plateau phase were observed. Shortly thereafter, it was found that the surgeons had mistakenly injected hydrogen peroxide instead of ropivacaine. Fortunately, the patient recovered to normal status after 10 minutes. After the surgery, the patient was carefully observed for suspected pulmonary embolism and discharged without complications.CONCLUSION: Adverse events related to medication errors can occur in operating rooms, and most cases can be prevented through communication and verification by medical staff. The use of hydrogen peroxide should be reevaluated; when used, medical staff should be aware of the risk of oxygen embolism and take extreme care. labels: #Acetabulum#Adult#Anesthesia, General#Anti-Infective Agents, Local#Embolism, Air#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Injections, Subcutaneous#Intraoperative Complications#Male#Medication Errors#Oxygen#Subcutaneous Emphysema#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Vandetanib is a promising anticancer target agent for treating advanced carcinomas, such as non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and breast cancer. Rash is a frequently reported adverse event of vandetanib. We conducted this meta-analysis to determine the incidence rate and overall risks of all-grade and high-grade rash with vandetanib in NSCLC patients.METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, American Society of Clinical Oncology, and Cochrane Library were systematically searched to identify studies with vandetanib and rash in NSCLC patients. Data were extracted to calculate the pooled incidence of all-grade and high-grade (grade \xe2\x89\xa53) rash caused by vandetanib treatment.RESULTS: Nine randomized controlled trials involving 4893 patients met the inclusion criteria and were included in this meta-analysis. The overall incidence of all-grade and high-grade rash caused by vandetanib treatment was 46% (95% CI: 37.1%, 54.8%), and 3.2% (95% CI: 1.4%, 5.1%), respectively. The risk ratios (RR) of all-grade and high-grade rash for vandetanib treatment versus control treatment were 2.35 (95% CI: 1.20, 4.61; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and 4.68 (95% CI 1.42, 15.37; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), respectively. Subgroup analysis suggested that the increased risk of all-grade rash was clear across all subgroups, including first-line/second-line therapy, phase 2/phase 3 trial, sample size</>200, a dosage of 100 or 300\xe2\x80\x8amg, and monotherapy/combination therapy. However, for the high-grade rash, vandetanib did not increase the risk of rash when it was used in first-line therapy, or in a phase II trial, or in a trial with sample size<200.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that vandetanib was associated with a significantly increased risk of rash. Therefore, early recognition and appropriate monitoring should be taken when NSCLC patients were treated with vandetanib. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Exanthema#Humans#Incidence#Inflammatory Breast Neoplasms#Neoplasm Staging#Piperidines#Quinazolines#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Severity of Illness Index'
b'Glaucoma (GL) and atrial fibrillation (AF) are diseases of significant social importance. Cardiovascular disorders such as systemic hypertension, hypotension, increased blood viscosity, vasospasm, and diabetes are potential risk factors of GL, especially when intraocular pressure is not elevated. Only a few studies have reported a possible connection between cardiac arrhythmias and GL. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the risk of GL in patients with AF.A total of 117 patients were included in the study, 79 with AF (AF group) and 38 with sinus rhythm (Control group), matched for age and sex. The mean\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8astandard deviation age was 73.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.2 and 71.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a4.7 years for the AF and control groups, respectively. There were no statistically significant differences in the percentage of systemic hypertension, congestive heart failure, diabetes mellitus type 2, or vascular disease between the groups. Patients were examined for the presence of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) by an ophthalmologist.NTG was confirmed in 40 patients (34.2%) in the entire group, with 35 (44.3%) in the AF group and 5 (13.15%) in the Control group. The incidence of NTG was significantly higher in the AF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0221). Women represented 60% of GL patients in the AF group and 80% in the control group. There were no significant differences in intraocular pressure between the groups (mean\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8astandard deviation, 14.3\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.3 vs. 14.2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.8\xe2\x80\x8ammHg, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.4202). Approximately three-fourths of patients with AF and NTG had early visual field damage based on the Hodapp classification.AF, independent of other known cardiovascular risk factors, increases the risk of developing NTG. Many AF patients do not have conspicuous symptoms of GL, so understanding the possible risk of its development is critical because early detection might help to prevent later visual impairment and even irreversible blindness. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Early Diagnosis#Early Medical Intervention#Female#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Poland#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Statistics as Topic#Tonometry, Ocular#Vision Disorders'
b'RATIONALE: Post-therapy or diagnostic whole-body radioiodine scintigraphy is widely employed to evaluate the residual, recurrence, or metastases of differentiated thyroid carcinoma because of the high sensitivity and accuracy. However, it has pitfalls.PATIENT CONCERNS: We described a 63-year-old male with a history of papillary thyroid carcinoma who was referred for iodine-131 ablation therapy. The post-therapy iodine-131 whole-body images demonstrated abnormal increased uptake of the tracer in the regions of bilateral upper abdomen.DIAGNOSES: The single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) showed the abnormal Iactivity was corresponded to multiple irregular cystic low densities in the both kidneys on the low-dose computed tomography images, so the diagnosis of polycystic kidney disease was confirmed.INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: The patient responded well to the lifestyle-based treatments.LESSONS: Polycystic kidney disease was one of the etiologies of the false-positive findings in the radioiodine scintigraphy. labels: #Carcinoma, Papillary#Humans#Incidental Findings#Iodine Radioisotopes#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Polycystic Kidney Diseases#Radioimmunotherapy#Radiopharmaceuticals#Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography Computed Tomography#Thyroid Neoplasms#Whole Body Imaging'
b'We investigated the serum haptoglobin levels in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) based on the hypothesis that haptoglobin levels would reflect subclinical hemolysis due to microangiopathy in pulmonary arterioles.This cross-sectional study included 3 groups of patients attending Hokkaido University Hospital: PAH, chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), and connective tissue diseases (CTD) without PAH (CTD-non-PAH) group. Serum haptoglobin levels were measured by standardized turbidimetric immunoassay in all patients. Demographic data, laboratory results, right heart catheter, and echocardiographic findings were extracted from the medical records. Decreased haptoglobin levels were defined as below 19\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL based on the 95th percentile of healthy controls.Thirty-five patients in PAH group including 11 with idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and 24 with CTD-associated PAH (CTD-PAH), 27 in CTEPH group, and 32 in CTD-non-PAH group were analyzed. Serum haptoglobin levels in PAH group (median 66\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL) were significantly lower than those in CTEPH group (median 94\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03) and CTD-non-PAH group (median 79\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). The prevalence of decreased haptoglobin levels was 26% in PAH group, 15% in CTEPH group, and 6% in CTD-non-PAH group. Serum haptoglobin levels had a significant negative correlation (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.66, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) with mean pulmonary artery pressure in PAH group, particularly in CTD-PAH subgroup (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.74, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but no correlation in IPAH subgroup (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.52, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.13) and in CTEPH group (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.17, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.41). Follow-up cases of CTD-PAH showed lowering pulmonary artery pressure led to normalizing serum haptoglobin levels.Serum haptoglobin levels decreased in PAH patients and inversely correlated with pulmonary artery pressure in CTD-PAH patients, suggesting their potential as a surrogate marker for CTD-PAH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Arterioles#Blood Pressure#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Haptoglobins#Hemolysis#Humans#Hypertension, Pulmonary#Lung#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Artery#Pulmonary Embolism#Thrombotic Microangiopathies'
b'Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of small-diameter mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas (ICCs) (diameter \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x8acm) are still unclear.This study focused on imaging findings of small mass-forming ICCs. The MRI findings for small-diameter mass-forming ICCs were summarized, and the enhancement features of small ICC nodules with different diameters [2 groups were defined: a smaller nodule group (ICC diameter<2\xe2\x80\x8acm) and a larger nodule group (ICC diameter>2\xe2\x80\x8acm)] were compared on contrast-enhanced MRI.In our study, there were 41 small ICC nodules in 41 patients, including 30 men and 11 women (average age, 56 years). The nodules were characterized by peripheral hyperintense in the arterial phase on contrast-enhanced MRI. In the different diameter groups, peripheral hyperintense was the most common in the larger nodule group (56% vs 12%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and hypointense was more common in the smaller nodule group (25% vs 0%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in the arterial phase on contrast-enhanced MRI. Smaller nodules mainly showed progressive enhancement, whereas larger nodules mainly showed peripheral continuous enhancement (56% vs 6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).The small-diameter mass-forming ICC nodules mainly show peripheral continuous enhancement on contrast-enhanced MRI; however, those with diameters<2\xe2\x80\x8acm commonly show progressive enhancement. labels: #Adult#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Bile Ducts, Intrahepatic#Cholangiocarcinoma#Contrast Media#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Humans#Image Enhancement#Liver#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Radiologists#Retrospective Studies'
b'Intralesional steroid injections are the standard treatment for hypertrophic scars and keloids. The procedure is, however, quite painful and is unpopular with patients because of this. Topical application of anesthetic creams, such as Ametop gel (tetracaine) and EMLA cream (lidocaine and prilocaine), has limited efficacy because of poor drug penetration. The onset of the analgesic effect is also slow, which means that the use of topical anesthetics is time-consuming in clinical practice.We hypothesized that a commercially available cryotip could be used to provide fast-acting topical cryoanesthesia that would reduce the pain associated with steroid injections.Thirty patients with hypertrophic scars or keloids were enrolled in the study. Scars were injected with the steroid, triamcinolone acetonide, with or without prior application of the cryotip (-10\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb0C) for 15 seconds. The degree of pain was evaluated in each case using the visual analogue scale (VAS) and the verbal descriptor scale (VDS), together with any side-effects caused by application of the cryotip.The VAS pain scores showed a statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) difference between the pretreated and the control scars (pain scores 7.87\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.31 and 2.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.37, respectively). The VDS pain scores also showed a statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) difference between the pretreated and the control scars. And its average scores were 7.89\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.32 and 2.68\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.25, respectively.Application of the cryotip before injection could provide a rapid and effective means of reducing the pain associated with steroid injections. Painless would result in better therapeutic effect. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anesthetics, Local#Cicatrix, Hypertrophic#Cryoanesthesia#Female#Glucocorticoids#Humans#Injections, Intralesional#Keloid#Male#Middle Aged#Pain#Pain Measurement#Treatment Outcome#Triamcinolone Acetonide#Young Adult'
b'It is still debatable whether complete mediastinal lymph node dissection (MLND) is associated with better survival than mediastinal lymph node sampling (MLNS) in surgical treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We aimed to assess the impact of lymph node dissection on long-term survival among stage I NSCLC patients.In this cohort study, 317 stage I NSCLC Chinese patients in Shanghai Chest Hospital were followed up for at least 10 years to evaluate the impact of different lymph node dissection modes on their survival. Among them, 161 patients were in the MLND group and 156 in the MLNS group. Overall survival and median survival times were calculated for the 2 groups. The association between lymph node dissection and the survival of NSCLC patients was assessed using Cox proportional-hazard models.Patients in the MLND group presented better survival (median survival time\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a154.67 months) than those in the MLNS group (median survival time\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a124.67 months). The MLNS had higher mortality than the MLND group, with the crude hazard ratio of the MLNS group relative to the MLND group as 1.32 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97, 1.78). After adjusting for age and sex, the association between lymph node dissection and mortality (hazard ratio 1.36, 95% CI 1.00, 1.84) was statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.047). Further adjusting for baseline clinical characteristics, the association (hazard ratio 1.40, 95% CI 1.02, 1.92) remained statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.036). The association between lymph node dissection mode and mortality was strong among patients with tumor size between 2.0 and 3.0\xe2\x80\x8acm (hazard ratio 2.79, 95% CI 1.45, 5.37).We found that the MLND was associated with better survival for patients with early-stage NSCLC, compared with the MLNS. The effects of MLND on survival may depend on tumor size. Our findings have important implications in the treatment of early-stage NSCLC. Further prospective studies with a large sample size are needed to confirm our findings. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Lung Neoplasms#Lymph Node Excision#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Mediastinum#Neoplasm Staging#Proportional Hazards Models#Treatment Outcome'
b"To determine the prevalence of thyroid disorders among newly diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and evaluate the association between clinical characteristics of RA and thyroid disorders, and also initial treatment response in the RA patients with thyroid disorders.Newly diagnosed, adult RA patients who were diagnosed according to the new 2010 American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism criteria since January 1, 2010, were included. Patients' demographic data, serology results including immunoglobulin M rheumatoid factor (IgM RF), anticyclic citrullinated peptide antibody (anti-CCP), and antinuclear antibody (ANA), and also disease activity score in 28 joints-C-reactive protein at the time of diagnosis and after 4 months (\xc2\xb11-2 months) of treatment initiation were extracted from Danish Danbio Registry. Patients' electronic hospital records for the past 10 years were reviewed to reveal if they had been diagnosed with thyroid disorders or they had abnormal thyroid test.In all, 439 patients were included, female 60.1%, mean age 64.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a15.0 years and disease duration 2.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.7 years. Prevalence of thyroid disorders was 69/439 (15.7%) and hypothyroidism was the most frequent disorder (30.4%). The presence of thyroid disorders among RA patients was significantly associated with female sex (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), ANA positivity (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04), and anti-CCP \xe2\x89\xa5100\xe2\x80\x8aEU/mL (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Furthermore, RA patients with thyroid disorders had significantly poorer initial response to RA treatment compared with patients with isolated RA after 4 months of treatment (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02). There were no associations between thyroid disorders and age, disease duration, and also IgM RF positivity.Presence of thyroid disorders in RA patients is suggestive of a more aggressive disease and poor outcome, with direct effect on initial treatment response. To diagnose concurrent thyroid disorders at an earlier stage, routine measurement of serum thyroid-stimulating hormone is recommended in all RA patients at the time of diagnosis and with yearly interval thereafter. labels: #Aged#Antibodies, Antinuclear#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Rheumatoid#Autoantibodies#C-Reactive Protein#Cohort Studies#Denmark#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin M#Joints#Male#Middle Aged#Peptides, Cyclic#Prevalence#Registries#Rheumatoid Factor#Severity of Illness Index#Thyroid Diseases#Treatment Outcome"
b'RATIONALE: Acute colonic diverticulitis is a well-known surgical emergency, which occurs in about 10 percent of patients known for diverticulosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: The case of a 77-year-old woman is reported, with past history of abdominoperineal resection with end-colostomy for low rectal adenocarcinoma, and who developed an acute colonic diverticulitis in a subcutaneous portion of colostomy with parastomal phlegmon.DIAGNOSES: Initial computed tomography imaging demonstrated a significant submucosal parietal edema with local fat tissues infiltration in regard of 3 diverticula.INTERVENTIONS: A two-step treatment was decided: first a nonoperative treatment was initiated with 2 weeks antibiotics administration, followed by, 6 weeks after, a segmental resection of the terminal portion of the colon with redo of a new colostomy by direct open approach.OUTCOMES: Patient was discharged on the second postoperative day without complications. Follow-up at 2 weeks revealed centimetric dehiscence of the stoma, which was managed conservatively until sixth postoperative week by stomatherapists.LESSONS SUBSECTIONS: Treatment of acute diverticulitis with parastomal phlegmon in a patient with end-colostomy could primary be nonoperative. Delayed surgical treatment with segmental colonic resection was proposed to avoid recurrence and potential associated complications. labels: #Abdominal Neoplasms#Aged#Anus Neoplasms#Cellulitis#Colostomy#Diverticulitis, Colonic#Female#Humans#Perineum#Postoperative Complications#Surgical Stomas'
b'This study is conducted to investigate the involvement of T-helper (Th) cells and regulatory T cells in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).The percentages of Th22, Th17, Th1, and regulatory T cells in the peripheral blood of EOC patients, benign ovarian epithelial neoplasm (BOEN) patients, and healthy control (HC) were examined by flow cytometry. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to determine serum levels of interleukin (IL)-22, IL-17, interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3), and tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 (TNF-\xce\xb1).Th22 and Th17 were significantly increased in EOC patients. The plasma concentrations of IL-22 and TNF-\xce\xb1 were significantly elevated in EOC patients compared with BOEN patients and HC. In EOC patients, there was an increased trend of Th22, IL-22, and TNF-\xce\xb1 in stage III-IV patients compared with stage I-II patients. A positive correlation was seen among Th22, Th17, and Th1 cells in EOC patients. Similarly, positive correlations were detected between Th22 cells and IL-22 or TNF-\xce\xb1 and between Th1 cells and interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3) in EOC patients. Besides, no significant difference was found in Th1 cells and regulatory T cells among EOC and BOEN patients and HC.There is a higher circulating frequency of Th22, Th17 cells, IL-22, and TNF-\xce\xb1 concentration in EOC patients, which may conjointly participate in the pathogenesis and growth of EOC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Cytokines#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Lymphocyte Count#Middle Aged#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory'
b'RATIONALE: Relapsing polychondritis (RP) is a multisystemic, progressive disease of unknown etiology characterized by recurrent inflammation and progressive cartilage destruction. It can involve all types of cartilage including ears and nose, tracheobronchial tree, joints, and any other tissue rich in proteoglycans such as heart, eyes, and blood vessels. Recurrent chondritis can be life-threatening if the respiratory tract, heart valves, or blood vessels are affected. To date there is no data in the literature on the post solid organ transplantation RP.PATIENT CONCERNS: We present a 59-year-old male liver transplant recipient with primary sclerosing cholangitis who developed RP of the earlobes and nose despite post-transplant immunosuppression.DIAGNOSES: Based on the clinical criteria, scintigraphy and biopsy from the left auricle his condition was diagnosed as RP.INTERVENTIONS: Pulses of methylprednisolone followed by high-dose oral steroids along with azathioprine were administered.OUTCOMES: Such therapy diminished local cartilage inflammation, improved patient\'s general condition and the laboratory results. Significant loss of ear cartilage and characteristic "saddlenose" were observed after remission of acute symptoms. The control scintigraphy proved very good treatment response.LESSONS: To the best of our knowledge this is the first report on the RP in liver transplant recipient. Based on our patient presentation, we suggest that RP should be suspected in any transplant recipient with cartilage inflammation, and that the Michet\'s clinical criteria and scintigraphy seem to be the best diagnostic tools for solid organ transplant recipients suspected of RP. labels: #Cholangitis, Sclerosing#Ear Cartilage#Ear Diseases#Humans#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Nasal Cartilages#Nose Diseases#Polychondritis, Relapsing'
b'The aims of present study were to evaluate the prevalence, risk factors, and prognostic significance of masked hypertension in diabetic patients. Using a cross-sectional design, 266 patients with documented type 2 diabetes mellitus and clinic blood pressure (BP)<140/90\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg without antihypertension treatment were enrolled; 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring was applied to evaluate mean 24-hour systolic/diastolic BP. Demographics, medical histories, and medications usage were obtained using questionnaire. Fasting venous blood was drawn for biochemical analysis. Approximately 26.5% of participants were diagnosed as masked hypertension with mean 24-hour systolic BP>130\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg and/or mean 24-hour diastolic BP>80\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg. Compared with those without masked hypertension, other than significantly higher mean 24-hour systolic/diastolic BP, patients with masked hypertension were more elderly, had higher serum glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and higher prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD). Multivariate regression analysis showed that aging, increased HbA1c and CRP levels, and prevalent CHD were independently associated with masked hypertension. Logistic regression analysis revealed that after adjusted for traditional risk factors including age, male sex, smoking status, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, CRP, clinic systolic BP, and HbA1c, masked hypertension remained independently associated with prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD), with odds ratio of 1.31 and 95% confidence interval of 1.11 to 1.85. In summary, in diabetic patients, concurrent masked hypertension increases the odds of having CVD. Future randomized controlled trials are warranted to investigate whether screening and managing masked hypertension could reduce cardiovascular events in diabetic patients. labels: #Aged#Blood Pressure#C-Reactive Protein#Coronary Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Lipoproteins, LDL#Male#Masked Hypertension#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Prognosis#Risk Factors'
b'Walking up and down stairs is a common and important activity of daily living. Women with fibromyalgia often show a reduced ability to perform this task.The objective of this study was to evaluate the test-retest reliability of stair negotiation tasks and to assess the impact of fibromyalgia symptoms on the ability to negotiate stairs.Forty-two women with fibromyalgia participated in this descriptive correlational study. The relevance of the stair negotiation (both walking up and down) was evaluated by assessing its association with the revised version of the fibromyalgia impact questionnaire (FIQ-R) and other health-related variables. Test-retest reliability was also analyzed. The main outcome measures were time spent walking up and down stairs and impact of fibromyalgia, quality of life, number of falls, weight, and lower limb strength and endurance.The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for stair descent was 0.929 whereas that for ascent was 0.972. The score in these tests correlated significantly with the total score for the FIQ-R and the score for many of dimensions and symptoms: that is, physical function, overall impact of fibromyalgia, pain, energy, stiffness, restorative sleep, tenderness, self-perceived balance problems, and sensitivity.Given the importance of the stair negotiation as activity of daily living and the high reliability, both stair ascent and descent tasks may be useful as outcome measures in studies on patients with fibromyalgia. labels: #Accidental Falls#Activities of Daily Living#Adult#Aged#Disability Evaluation#Female#Fibromyalgia#Humans#Lower Extremity#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Reproducibility of Results#Statistics as Topic#Surveys and Questionnaires#Task Performance and Analysis#Walking'
b'Due to the lack of an accurate preoperative diagnostic method of central lymph node metastasis (CLNM) of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), the prophylaxis of central lymph node dissection remains controversial. The present study investigated the clinicopathological features of PTC patients and the risk factors of CLNM. The clinicopathological features of PTC patients with respect to sex, age, initial symptoms, observation, tumor diameter, multifocality, extrathyroidal invasion, and pathological data combined with other thyroid diseases, were analyzed retrospectively. The risk factors of CLNM were analyzed by Chi-squared test and multivariate logistic regression model. The CLNM rate of PTC was 40.6% (1331/3273). On average, 7.0 (4.0, 12.0) central lymph nodes were dissected, and 3.70 (\xc2\xb13.8) lymph nodes were proved to be metastatic. Univariate analysis showed that sex (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), age (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), tumor diameter (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), extrathyroid invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), multifocality (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), concurrent nodular goiter (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), initial symptoms (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and observation or not (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were related to CLNM. The observation time was neither related to CLNM (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.469) nor extrathyroidal invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.137). Tumors localized in the lower part of the thyroid were the risk factors for CLNM (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) while multifocality was unrelated (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.68). The metastasis rate of bilateral multiple regions\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8aunilateral multiple regions\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8asingle region (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that sex, age, tumor diameter, extrathyroidal invasion, and observation were independent risk factors of CLNM. Male, younger age, large tumor size, and extrathyroidal invasion were independent risk factors for CLNM. CLNM was related to multiple regions occupied by tumors in the thyroid but unrelated to multifocality. The tumor occupying a single region and localized in the lower part of thyroid could be used as a predictive factor for CLNM. For tumors that could not be diagnosed as benign or malignant, observation may be an option, since no evidence of disease progression was presented during observation. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Carcinoma, Papillary#Chi-Square Distribution#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Logistic Models#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neck#Neck Dissection#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Thyroid Neoplasms#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Watchful Waiting'
b'The objective of this study was to examine the incidence and hazard ratio (HR) of pulmonary tuberculosis in patients with head and neck cancer in Taiwan.This population-based retrospective cohort study was conducted to analyze the database of the Taiwan National Health Insurance Program. There were 2522 subjects aged 20 to 84 years with newly diagnosed head and neck cancer as the head and neck cancer group between 2000 and 2012, and 10,064 randomly selected sex- and age-matched subjects without any cancer as the noncancer group. The incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis at the end of 2013 was estimated in both groups. A multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression model was used to estimate the HR and 95% confidence interval (CI) for pulmonary tuberculosis being associated with head and neck cancer.The overall incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis was 2.86-fold greater in the head and neck cancer group than that in the noncancer group (4.70 vs 1.64 per 1000 person-years, 95% CI, 2.53-3.24). After adjusting for confounding factors, the adjusted HR of pulmonary tuberculosis became 2.90 for the head and neck cancer group (95% CI, 2.11-3.99), compared with the noncancer group. In addition, male (adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI, 1.29-4.00) and age (increase for 1 year, adjusted HR 1.06, 95% CI, 1.05-1.08) were associated with pulmonary tuberculosis.Head and neck cancer is significantly associated with 2.90-fold increased hazard of pulmonary tuberculosis in Taiwan, compared with the general population. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Databases, Factual#Female#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Taiwan#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Both genomics and environmental stressors play a significant role in increases in blood pressure (BP). In an attempt to further explain the hypertension (HTN) disparity among African Americans (AA), both genetic underpinnings (selected candidate genes) and stress due to perceived racial discrimination (as reported in the literature) have independently been linked to increased BP among AAs. Although Gene x Environment interactions on BP have been examined, the environmental component of these investigations has focused more on lifestyle behaviors such as smoking, diet, and physical activity, and less on psychosocial stressors such as perceived discrimination.The present study uses candidate gene analyses to identify the relationship between Everyday Discrimination (ED) and Major Life Discrimination (MLD) with increases in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) among AA in the Jackson Heart Study. Multiple linear regression models reveal no association between discrimination and BP after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index (BMI), antihypertensive medication use, and current smoking status.Subsequent candidate gene analysis identified 5 SNPs (rs7602215, rs3771724, rs1006502, rs1791926, and rs2258119) that interacted with perceived discrimination and SBP, and 3 SNPs (rs2034454, rs7602215, and rs3771724) that interacted with perceived discrimination and DBP. Most notably, there was a significant SNP\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8adiscrimination interaction for 2 SNPs on the SLC4A5 gene: rs3771724 (MLD: SBP P = .034, DBP P = .031; ED: DBP: P = .016) and rs1006502 (MLD: SBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.034, DBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.030; ED: DBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.015).This study supports the idea that SNP\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8adiscrimination interactions combine to influence clinically relevant traits such as BP. Replication with similar epidemiological samples is required to ascertain the role of genes and psychosocial stressors in the development and expression of high BP in this understudied population. labels: #Adult#African Americans#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Blood Pressure#Discrimination (Psychology)#Female#Gene-Environment Interaction#Health Status Disparities#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Severe sepsis or septic shock are the main factors influencing the prognosis of acute pyelonephritis (APN). Our aim was to analyze factors associated with the development of severe sepsis or septic shock in a large sample of patients with acute complicated pyelonephritis (ACPN).This prospective observational study comprised 1507 consecutive patients aged 14 years or older who were admitted to a tertiary care hospital because of ACPN between 1997 and 2015. Covariates associated in univariate analysis with severe sepsis or septic shock were then analyzed by multivariate logistic regression.Of the 1507 patients, 423 (28.1%) fulfilled the criteria for severe sepsis or septic shock at the time of admission. Crude and attributable mortality at 30 days were 17.7% and 11.7% in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock versus 1.7% and 0.6% in patients without severe sepsis or septic shock, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0005, respectively. An age\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a65 years, urinary instrumentation in the previous 2 weeks, the lack of mictional syndrome or costovertebral tenderness, an ectasia \xe2\x89\xa5 grade II, and bacteremia were independent risk factors associated with severe sepsis or septic shock.The prevalence of severe sepsis and septic shock in patients with ACPN is high. Some factors associated with severe sepsis are easy to identify in any emergency department. The information provided here could be useful when deciding which patients should be admitted to receive immediate treatment. labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Pyelonephritis#Risk Factors#Sepsis#Shock, Septic'
b'Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is the development of heart failure during late pregnancy to months postpartum with potential fatal outcome. However, the disease is not well-studied in Asia.We aimed to investigate the epidemiology and clinical outcomes of PPCM in Taiwan.Electronic medical records were retrieved from Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database from 1997 to 2011. Patients with PPCM were separated into 3 groups based on the timing of diagnosis. Early: PPCM diagnosed first to ninth month of pregnancy. Traditional: PPCM diagnosed last month of pregnancy till fifth month post-delivery. Late: PPCM diagnosed sixth to twelfth month post-delivery. Primary outcomes defined as cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) within 1 year.A total of 3,506,081 deliveries during 1997 to 2011 were retrieved and 925 patients with PPCM were identified. Overall incidence of PPCM was 1:3,790 during the 15 years. Early, Traditional, and Late group each had 88, 742, and 95 patients. Cardiac death occurred in 31 patients, all-cause mortality in 72 patients, and MACE in 65 patients. Late group had 2- to 3-fold event rates in cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and MACE compared with Early and Traditional groups. Cumulative incidence showed significant differences for cardiac death (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0011), all-cause mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0031), and MACE (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0014) among 3 groups. Multivariate Cox model showed Late group had significantly worse outcomes after adjusted for clinical variables compared with 2 other groups.Our study is the largest national cohort among Asian countries that showed timing of diagnosis of PPCM had different outcomes. Late diagnosis portended significantly increased morbidity and mortality, even after adjusted for clinical variables. labels: #Adult#Cardiomyopathies#Cause of Death#Databases, Factual#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Incidence#Multivariate Analysis#Peripartum Period#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Puerperal Disorders#Taiwan'
b'Syphilitic chorioretinitis should be included in differential diagnosis of any form of ocular inflammation. A significantly higher proportion of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients with ocular syphilis as compared to HIV-negative cases have been reported in published studies. However, the clinical signs and symptoms are more insidious in HIV-negative patients who are easily misdiagnosed. We report a series of cases of ocular syphilis and describe the clinical manifestations and treatment outcomes of syphilitic chorioretinitis in HIV-negative patients in China.This was a retrospective case series study. The clinical records of patients with syphilis chorioretinitis were reviewed. Demographic information and findings of fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), indocyanine green angiography (ICGA), and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) were analyzed. All patients received the standard treatment. Ophthalmology examination and laboratory evaluation were repeated every 3 months. All changes were recorded. The treatment was considered successful if the patients had no inflammation in both eyes and rapid plasma reagin titer was negative after therapy.The study examined 41 eyes of 28 HIV-negative patients. The main complaints were blurry vision, floaters, and visual field defect. Twenty-seven eyes presented with panuveitis, and all had posterior involvement, including uveitis, vasculitis, chorioretinitis, and optic neuritis. The most common manifestations were uveitis and retinal vasculitis. Disc hyperfluorescence and persistent dark spots were the most common findings on FFA and ICGA. The ill-defined inner segment/outer segment junction was the most frequent manifestation on SD-OCT. Patients were diagnosed with syphilitic uveitis based on positive serological tests. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was improved in 34 eyes after treatment. Eleven patients were misdiagnosed before serological tests were performed. The delay in treatment led to long-standing cystoid macular edema and optic neuropathy, which were associated with poor BCVA (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.037).The common manifestations of syphilitic chorioretinitis were uveitis, retinal vasculitis, and optic neuritis. Further diagnosis should be prompted by FFA, ICGA, and SD-OCT when ocular manifestation is suspected. The standard treatment for neurosyphilis was effective. If patients are presumed to be in low-risk groups such as HIV-negative, delays in diagnosis, and therapy may be likely. It is necessary to reiterate the importance of including syphilis uveitis as a differential diagnosis for any form of ocular inflammations, especially posterior uveitis and optic neuropathy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anti-Bacterial Agents#China#Chorioretinitis#Eye Infections, Bacterial#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Optic Neuritis#Retinal Vasculitis#Retrospective Studies#Syphilis#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Treatment Outcome#Uveitis#Visual Acuity'
b'RATIONALE: Staged hepatectomy is an important surgical method for large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) is still the major barrier in stage II hepatectomy. We herein reported a case of laparoscopic associating liver tourniquet and portal ligation combined rescue transhepatic arterial embolization (TAE) for staged hepatectomy.PATIENT CONCERNS: Laparoscopic associating liver tourniquet and portal ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALTPS) was performed for cirrhotic HCC in stage I. To stimulate the growth of FLR, a "rescue" TAE was initiated before stage II.DIAGNOSE: HCC with hepatitis B cirrhosis.OUTCOMES: Two weeks later after TAE, the FLR achieved sufficient hypertrophy and stage II surgery was successfully performed. The patient was discharged 7 days after the second stage without serious complication. During the follow-up at postoperative 6 months, the patient underwent radiofrequency ablation, because contrast-enhanced ultrasonography showed 1\xe2\x80\x8acm tumor recurrence in the remnant liver.LESSONS: Rescue TAE plays an important role to stimulate the increasing of FLR after ALTPS. labels: #Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Embolization, Therapeutic#Hepatectomy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ligation#Liver Cirrhosis#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Portal Vein#Postoperative Period#Tourniquets'
b'RATIONALE: In patients with bilateral ureteral obstruction, the serum creatinine levels are often elevated, sometimes causing postrenal acute kidney injury (AKI). In contrast, those with unilateral ureteral obstruction present normal serum creatinine levels, as long as their contralateral kidneys are preserved intact. However, the unilateral obstruction of the ureter could affect the renal function, as it humorally influences the renal hemodynamics.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 66-year-old man with a past medical history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus came to our outpatient clinic because of right abdominal dullness.DIAGNOSES: Unilateral ureteral obstruction caused by a radio-opaque calculus in the right upper ureter and a secondary renal dysfunction.INTERVENTIONS: As oral hydration and the use of calcium antagonists failed to allow the spontaneous stone passage, extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) was performed.OUTCOMES: Immediately after the passage of the stone, the number of red blood cells in the urine was dramatically decreased and the serum creatinine level almost returned to the normal range with the significant increase in glomerular filtration rate.LESSONS: Unilateral ureteral obstruction by the calculus, which caused reflex vascular constriction and ureteral spasm in the contralateral kidney, was thought to be responsible for the deteriorating renal function. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Aged#Humans#Kidney#Male#Ureteral Obstruction#Urolithiasis'
b'Angiogenesis plays an important role during bone regeneration. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) has been proven to accelerate the process of bone fracture healing. However, the mechanism of the effect of LIPUS on bone regeneration is still unclear. In the present study, we used human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) and human osteosarcoma cell (MG-63) to investigate the effect of LIPUS stimulation in an endothelial cell-osteoblast coculture system. At the same time, we used transwell and in vitro angiogenesis assay to observe how LIPUS affects endothelial cells. The results demonstrated that LIPUS could significantly increase the migratory ability and promote tube formation in angiogenesis of HUVECs. Furthermore, LIPUS could significantly elevate the expression of osteogenesis-related genes on osteoblasts such as Runt-related transcription factor 2, alkaline phosphatase, Osteorix, and Cyclin-D1, indicating the pro-osteogenesis effect of LIPUS in our coculture system. In conclusion, endothelial cell is involved in LIPUS-accelerated bone regeneration, the positive effect of LIPUS may be transferred via endothelial cells surrounding fracture healing site. labels: #Cell Line, Tumor#Coculture Techniques#Culture Media, Conditioned#Endothelial Cells#Fracture Healing#Humans#Osteoblasts#Osteogenesis#Osteosarcoma#Ultrasonic Waves'
b'Interpersonal and communication skills are 2 essential qualities of every physician. These are separate and distinct parts of the professional character of every physician. In pediatrics these abilities present even a higher impact.We performed a survey-type prospective study based on questionnaires on 100 subjects, equally divided into 4 groups: 25 children, 25 pediatricians, 25 care-givers (parents, tutors, and relatives), and 25 health care staff, in a Tertiary Pediatric Clinic from Romania, between January 2017 and April 2017.We included 100 participants in our study, equally divided into 4 groups: pediatric patients, pediatricians, care-givers, and health care staff. The 1st group comprised 25 children diagnosed with different chronic conditions, presenting the age between 5 and 14 years. The male gender predominated among the children (57%). The lowest general average score for "Communication" section was encountered among pediatricians group, 3.8, while the other 3 groups presented the same average score for this section, that is, 4.6. The children and the health care staff offered the same average score for "Transparency," that is, 4.6, while the pediatricians offered a score of 4.5, and the care-givers of 4.7. The lowest average score for the item "Hospital environment" was given by the doctors, that is, 3.3, followed by care-givers with a score of 3.6, health care staff 3.7, and children with an average score of 3.8. All the 4 groups included in the study offered a general average of 4.9 out of 5 for the "Intercultural issues" section. The lowest average score for "Time management" section was offered by both children and pediatricians, that is, 4.1, while care-givers and health care staff had a slightly better perception regarding this item, offering 4.2 and 4.3, respectively.The opinion among the 4 groups included in the study was generally similar regarding the 5 items assessed by our questionnaires. Therefore, the main aspects that need to be improved in the health care system in downward order are the following: hospital environment, time management, communication, transparency, and intercultural issues. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Caregivers#Child#Child, Preschool#Communication#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pediatricians#Physician-Patient Relations#Prospective Studies#Romania#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend that norepinephrine (NA) should be used to reach the target mean arterial pressure (MAP) during cardiogenic shock (CS), rather than epinephrine and dopamine (DA). However, there has actually been few studies on comparing norepinephrine with dopamine and their results conflicts. These studies raise a heat discussion. This study aimed to validate the effectiveness of norepinephrine for treating CS in comparison with dopamine.METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to assess pooled estimates of risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for 28-day mortality, incidence of arrhythmic events, gastrointestinal reaction, and some indexes after treatment.RESULTS: Compared with dopamine, patients receiving norepinephrine had a lower 28-day mortality (RR 1.611 [95% CI 1.219-2.129]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01), a lower risk of arrhythmic events (RR 3.426 [95% CI 2.120-5.510]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.875) and a lower risk of gastrointestinal reaction (RR 5.474 [95% CI 2.917-10.273]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0). In subgroup analyses on 28-day mortality by causes of CS, there were more benefits from norepinephrine than dopamine in 2 subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed that norepinephrine was associated with a lower 28-day mortality, a lower risk of arrhythmic events, and gastrointestinal reaction. No matter whether CS is caused by coronary heart disease or not, norepinephrine is superior to dopamine for correcting CS on the 28-day mortality. labels: #Cardiotonic Agents#Dopamine#Humans#Norepinephrine#Odds Ratio#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Shock, Cardiogenic#Treatment Outcome'
b'Water constraints can mediate evolutionary conflict either among individuals (e.g., parent-offspring conflict, sexual conflict) or within an individual (e.g., cost of reproduction). During pregnancy, water is of particular importance because the female provides all water needed for embryonic development and experiences important maternal shifts in behavior and physiology that, together, can compromise female water balance if water availability is limited. We examined the effect of pregnancy on evaporative water loss and microhabitat selection in a viviparous snake, the aspic viper. We found that both physiological (increased metabolism and body temperature) and morphological (body distension) changes contribute to an increased evaporative water loss in pregnant females. We also found that pregnant females in the wild select warmer and moister basking locations than nonreproductive females, likely to mitigate the conflict between thermal needs and water loss. Water resources likely induce significant reproductive constraints across diverse taxa and thus warrant further consideration in ecological research. From an evolutionary perspective, water constraints during reproduction may contribute to shaping reproductive effort. labels: #Animals#Female#Viperidae#Viviparity, Nonmammalian#Water Loss, Insensible'
b"Purpose: Optic nerve hypoplasia (ONH) is the most common cause of childhood congenital blindness in developed nations, yet the fundamental pathobiology of ONH remains unknown. The objective of this study was to employ a 'face validated' murine model to determine the timing of onset and the pathologic characteristics of ONH.Methods: Based on the robust linkage between X-linked CASK haploinsufficiency and clinically diagnosed ONH, we hypothesized that heterozygous deletion of CASK (CASK(+/-)) in rodents will produce an optic nerve pathology closely recapitulating ONH. We quantitatively analyzed the entire subcortical visual system in female CASK(+/-) mice using immunohistochemistry, anterograde axonal tracing, toluidine blue staining, transmission electron microscopy, and serial block-face scanning electron microscopy.Results: CASK haploinsuffiency in mice phenocopies human ONH with complete penetrance, thus satisfying the 'face validity'. We demonstrate that the optic nerve in CASK(+/-) mice is not only thin, but is comprised of atrophic retinal axons and displays reactive astrogliosis. Myelination of the optic nerve axons remains unchanged. Moreover, we demonstrate a significant decrease in retinal ganglion cell (RGC) numbers and perturbation in retinothalamic connectivity. Finally, we used this mouse model to define the onset and progression of ONH pathology, demonstrating for the first time that optic nerve defects arise at neonatally in CASK(+/-)mice.Conclusions: Optic nerve hypoplasia is a complex neuropathology of the subcortical visual system involving RGC loss, axonopathy, and synaptopathy and originates at a developmental stage in mice that corresponds to the late third trimester development in humans. labels: #Animals#Axons#Disease Models, Animal#Disease Progression#Guanylate Kinases#Immunohistochemistry#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mutation#Optic Nerve#Optic Nerve Diseases#Retinal Ganglion Cells"
b'Voltage-sensitive dye imaging experiments in primary visual cortex (V1) have shown that local, oriented visual stimuli elicit stable orientation-selective activation within the stimulus retinotopic footprint. The cortical activation dynamically extends far beyond the retinotopic footprint, but the peripheral spread stays non-selective-a surprising finding given a number of anatomo-functional studies showing the orientation specificity of long-range connections. Here we use a computational model to investigate this apparent discrepancy by studying the expected population response using known published anatomical constraints. The dynamics of input-driven localized states were simulated in a planar neural field model with multiple sub-populations encoding orientation. The realistic connectivity profile has parameters controlling the clustering of long-range connections and their orientation bias. We found substantial overlap between the anatomically relevant parameter range and a steep decay in orientation selective activation that is consistent with the imaging experiments. In this way our study reconciles the reported orientation bias of long-range connections with the functional expression of orientation selective neural activity. Our results demonstrate this sharp decay is contingent on three factors, that long-range connections are sufficiently diffuse, that the orientation bias of these connections is in an intermediate range (consistent with anatomy) and that excitation is sufficiently balanced by inhibition. Conversely, our modelling results predict that, for reduced inhibition strength, spurious orientation selective activation could be generated through long-range lateral connections. Furthermore, if the orientation bias of lateral connections is very strong, or if inhibition is particularly weak, the network operates close to an instability leading to unbounded cortical activation. labels: #Animals#Computer Simulation#Humans#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Visual Cortex#Visual Fields#Visual Pathways#Visual Perception'
b'The purpose of this study was to determine among patients with candidemia the real rate of ophthalmoscopy and the impact of performing ocular assessment on the outcome of the disease. We performed a post hoc analysis of a prospective, multicenter, population-based candidemia surveillance program implemented in Spain during 2010-2011 (CANDIPOP). Ophthalmoscopy was performed in only 168 of the 365 patients with candidemia (46%). Ocular lesions related to candidemia were found in only 13/168 patients (7.7%), of whom 1 reported ocular symptoms (incidence of symptomatic disease in the whole population, 0.27% [1/365]). Ophthalmological findings led to a change in antifungal therapy in only 5.9% of cases (10/168), and performance of the test was not related to a better outcome. Ocular candidiasis was not associated with a worse outcome and progressed favorably in all but 1 evaluable patient, who did not experience vision loss. The low frequency of ophthalmoscopy and ocular involvement and the asymptomatic nature of ocular candidiasis, with a favorable outcome in almost all cases, lead us to reconsider the need for systematic ophthalmoscopy in all candidemic patients. labels: #Aged#Antifungal Agents#Candidemia#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ophthalmoscopy#Prospective Studies#Spain'
b"Treatment with broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) has proven effective against HIV-1 infections in humanized mice, non-human primates, and humans. Due to the high mutation rate of HIV-1, resistance testing of the patient's viral strains to the bNAbs is still inevitable. So far, bNAb resistance can only be tested in expensive and time-consuming neutralization experiments. Here, we introduce well-performing computational models that predict the neutralization response of HIV-1 to bNAbs given only the envelope sequence of the virus. Using non-linear support vector machines based on a string kernel, the models learnt even the important binding sites of bNAbs with more complex epitopes, i.e., the CD4 binding site targeting bNAbs, proving thereby the biological relevance of the models. To increase the interpretability of the models, we additionally provide a new kind of motif logo for each query sequence, visualizing those residues of the test sequence that influenced the prediction outcome the most. Moreover, we predicted the neutralization sensitivity of around 34,000 HIV-1 samples from different time points to a broad range of bNAbs, enabling the first analysis of HIV resistance to bNAbs on a global scale. The analysis showed for many of the bNAbs a trend towards antibody resistance over time, which had previously only been discovered for a small non-representative subset of the global HIV-1 population. labels: #Antibodies, Neutralizing#Binding Sites#CD4 Antigens#Drug Resistance, Viral#Epitope Mapping#HIV Antibodies#HIV-1#Humans#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Mapping#Sequence Analysis, Protein#Time Factors"
b"Arginine vasopressin (AVP), a hormone secreted by the posterior pituitary, plays a vital role in maintaining vasomotor tone during acute blood loss. We hypothesized that decompensated hemorrhagic shock is associated with decreased AVP stores and supplementation during resuscitation would improve both blood pressure and renal function. Using a decompensated hemorrhagic shock model, male Long-Evans rats were bled to mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) of 40mmHg and maintained until the MAP could not be sustained without fluid. Once 40% of the shed volume was returned in lactated Ringer's (Severe Shock), animals were resuscitated over 60 minutes with 4x the shed volume in lactated Ringer's (LR) or the same fluids with AVP (0.5 units/kg+ 0.03 units/kg/min). Animals (n = 6-9/group) were sacrificed before hemorrhage (Sham), at Severe Shock, following resuscitation (60R, 60R with AVP) or 18 hours post-resuscitation (18hr, 18hr with AVP). Blood samples were taken to measure AVP levels and renal function. Pituitaries were harvested and assayed for AVP. Kidney samples were taken to assess mitochondrial function, histology, and oxidative damage. Baseline pituitary AVP stores (30,364 \xc2\xb1 5311 pg/mg) decreased with severe shock and were significantly depressed post-resuscitation (13,910 \xc2\xb1 3016 pg/ml. p<0.05) and at 18hr (15,592 \xc2\xb11169 pg/ml, p<0.05). Resuscitation with LR+AVP led to higher serum AVP levels at 60R (31\xc2\xb18 vs 79\xc2\xb112; p<0.01) with an improved MAP both at 60R (125\xc2\xb13 vs 77\xc2\xb17mmHg; p<0.01) and 18hr (82\xc2\xb16 vs 69\xc2\xb15mmHg;p<0.05). AVP supplementation preserved complex I respiratory capacity at 60R and both complex I and II function at 18hr (p<0.05). AVP was also associated with decreased reactive oxygen species at 60R (856\xc2\xb167 vs 622\xc2\xb148F RFU) and significantly decreased oxidative damage as measured by mitochondrial lipid peroxidation (0.9\xc2\xb10.1 vs 1.7\xc2\xb10.1 fold change, p<0.01) and nitrosylation (0.9\xc2\xb10.1 vs 1.4\xc2\xb10.2 fold change, p<0.05). With AVP, renal damage was mitigated at 60R and histologic architecture was conserved at 18 hours. In conclusion, pituitary and serum AVP levels decrease during severe hemorrhage and may contribute to the development of decompensated hemorrhagic shock. Supplementing exogenous AVP during resuscitation improves blood pressure, preserves renal mitochondrial function, and mitigates acute kidney injury. labels: #Animals#Arginine Vasopressin#Kidney#Male#Mitochondria#Rats#Rats, Long-Evans#Shock, Hemorrhagic"
b'BACKGROUND/AIMS: Long-term follow-up studies validating the clinical benefit of sustained virological response (SVR) in people with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) infection are lacking. Our aim was to identify rates and predictors of liver fibrosis progression in a large, well characterized cohort of CHC patients in whom paired liver fibrosis assessments were performed more than 10 years apart.METHODS: CHC patients who had undergone a baseline liver biopsy pre-2004 and a follow up liver fibrosis assessment more than 10 years later (biopsy or liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography [FibroScan]) were identified. Subjects who had undergone a baseline liver biopsy but had no follow up fibrosis assessment were recalled for LSM. Fibrosis was categorised as mild-moderate (METAVIR F0-2 /LSM result of \xe2\x89\xa4 9.5 kPa) or advanced (METAVIR F3-4/ LSM>9.5 kPa). The primary objective was to assess the association between SVR and the rate of liver fibrosis progression over at least 10 years, defined as an increase from mild-moderate fibrosis at baseline liver biopsy (METAVIR F0-2) to advanced fibrosis at follow-up liver fibrosis assessment.RESULTS: 131 subjects were included in this analysis: 69% male, 82% Caucasian, 60% G1 HCV, 25% G3 HCV. The median age at F/U fibrosis staging was 57 (IQR 54-62) years with median estimated duration of infection 33-years (IQR 29-38). At F/U, liver fibrosis assessment was performed by LSM in 86% and liver biopsy in 14%. The median period between fibrosis assessments was 14-years (IQR 12-17). 109 (83%) participants had received interferon-based antiviral therapy. 40% attained SVR. At F/U, there was a significant increase in the proportion of subjects with advanced liver fibrosis: 27% at baseline vs. 46% at F/U (p = 0.002). The prevalence of advanced fibrosis did not change among subjects who attained SVR, 30% at B/L vs 25% at F/U (p = 0.343). However, advanced fibrosis became more common at F/U among subjects with persistent viremia: 10% at B/L vs 31% at F/U (p = 0.0001). SVR was independently associated with protection from liver fibrosis progression after adjustment for other variables including baseline ALT (p = 0.011), duration of HCV infection and mode of acquisition.CONCLUSION: HCV eradication is associated with lower rates of liver fibrosis progression. The data support early treatment to prevent long-term liver complications of HCV infection. labels: #Disease Progression#Female#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#Viral Load#Viremia'
b"Publication bias is prevalent within the scientific literature. Whilst there are multiple ideas on how to reduce publication bias, only a minority of journals have made substantive changes to address the problem. We aimed to explore the perceived feasibility of strategies to reduce publication bias by gauging opinions of journal editors (n = 73) and other academics/researchers (n = 160) regarding nine methods of publishing and peer-reviewing research: mandatory publication, negative results journals/articles, open reviewing, peer-review training and accreditation, post-publication review, pre-study publication of methodology, published rejection lists, research registration, and two-stage review. Participants completed a questionnaire asking both quantitative (multiple choice or Likert scales) and qualitative (open-ended) questions regarding the barriers to implementing each suggestion, and their strengths and limitations. Participants were asked to rate the nine suggestions, then choose the method they felt was most effective. Mandatory publication was most popularly selected as the 'most effective' method of reducing publication bias for editors (25%), and was the third most popular choice for academics/researchers (14%). The most common selection for academics/researchers was two-stage review (26%), but fewer editors prioritised this (11%). Negative results journals/articles were the second and third most common choices for academics/researchers (21%) and editors (16%), respectively. Editors more commonly chose research registration as 'most effective' (21%), which was favoured by only 6% of academics/researchers. Whilst mandatory publication was generally favoured by respondents, it is infeasible to trial at a journal level. Where suggestions have already been implemented (e.g. negative results journals/articles, trial registration), efforts should be made to objectively assess their efficacy. Two-stage review should be further trialled as its popularity amongst academics/researchers suggests it may be well received, though editors may be less receptive. Several underlying barriers to change also emerged, including scientific culture, impact factors, and researcher training; these should be further explored to reduce publication bias. labels: #Feasibility Studies#Publication Bias"
b"BACKGROUND: The relatively high incidence of cervical cancer in women at older ages is a continuing concern in countries with long-established cervical screening. Controversy remains on when and how to cease screening. Existing population-based studies on the effectiveness of cervical screening at older ages have not considered women's screening history. We performed a nationwide cohort study to investigate the incidence of cervical cancer after age 60 years and its association with cervical screening at age 61-65, stratified by screening history at age 51-60.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using the Total Population Register, we identified 569,132 women born between 1 January 1919 and 31 December 1945, resident in Sweden since age 51. Women's cytological screening records, cervical cancer occurrence, and FIGO stage (for those diagnosed with cancer) were retrieved from national registers and medical charts. We calculated the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer from age 61 to age 80 using a survival function considering competing risk, and estimated the hazard ratio (HR) of cervical cancer in relation to screening status at age 61-65 from Cox models, adjusted for birth cohort and level of education, conditioning on women's screening history in their 50s. In women unscreened in their 50s, the cumulative incidence up to age 80 was 5.0 per 1,000 women, and screening at age 61-65 was associated with a lower risk for cervical cancer (HR = 0.42, 95% CI 0.24-0.72), corresponding to a decrease of 3.3 cancer cases per 1,000 women. A higher cumulative incidence and similarly statistically significant risk decrease was seen for women with abnormal smears in their 50s. In women adequately or inadequately screened with only normal results between age 51 and age 60, the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer from age 61 to 80 was 1.6 and 2.5 per 1,000 women, respectively, and further screening at age 61-65 was not associated with statistically significant decreases of cervical cancer risk up to age 80, but with fewer cancer cases of advanced stages at age 61-65. Adjustment for potential lifestyle confounders was limited.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, cervical screening with cytology at age 61-65 was associated with a statistically significant reduction of subsequent cervical cancer risk for women who were unscreened, or screened with abnormalities, in their 50s. In women screened with normal results in their 50s, the risk for future cancer was not sizeable, and the risk reduction associated with continued screening appeared limited. These findings should inform the current debate regarding age and criteria to discontinue cervical screening. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Age Factors#Aged#Atypical Squamous Cells of the Cervix#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cohort Studies#Early Detection of Cancer#Female#Humans#Incidence#Middle Aged#Papanicolaou Test#Proportional Hazards Models#Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions of the Cervix#Sweden#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms#Vaginal Smears"
b"Monitoring is an essential component of wildlife management and conservation. However, the usefulness of monitoring data is often undermined by the lack of 1) coordination across organizations and regions, 2) meaningful management and conservation objectives, and 3) rigorous sampling designs. Although many improvements to avian monitoring have been discussed, the recommendations have been slow to emerge in large-scale programs. We introduce the Integrated Monitoring in Bird Conservation Regions (IMBCR) program designed to overcome the above limitations. Our objectives are to outline the development of a statistically defensible sampling design to increase the value of large-scale monitoring data and provide example applications to demonstrate the ability of the design to meet multiple conservation and management objectives. We outline the sampling process for the IMBCR program with a focus on the Badlands and Prairies Bird Conservation Region (BCR 17). We provide two examples for the Brewer's sparrow (Spizella breweri) in BCR 17 demonstrating the ability of the design to 1) determine hierarchical population responses to landscape change and 2) estimate hierarchical habitat relationships to predict the response of the Brewer's sparrow to conservation efforts at multiple spatial scales. The collaboration across organizations and regions provided economy of scale by leveraging a common data platform over large spatial scales to promote the efficient use of monitoring resources. We designed the IMBCR program to address the information needs and core conservation and management objectives of the participating partner organizations. Although it has been argued that probabilistic sampling designs are not practical for large-scale monitoring, the IMBCR program provides a precedent for implementing a statistically defensible sampling design from local to bioregional scales. We demonstrate that integrating conservation and management objectives with rigorous statistical design and analyses ensures reliable knowledge about bird populations that is relevant and integral to bird conservation at multiple scales. labels: #Animals#Birds#Conservation of Natural Resources#Environmental Monitoring"
b"OBJECTIVE: This study sought to examine the sources of inequity in health examination service utilization by women from underdeveloped areas in western China.METHODS: Based on data from the 5th National Health Service Survey in Shaanxi province, women's utilization of health examination services was examined according to gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates. The equity of health examination service utilization by 15- to 64-year-old women and the factors contributing to inequity were determined using the health concentration index, decomposition of the concentration index, and the horizontal inequity index.RESULTS: The examination rates for gynecological, cervical smear, and breast exams for 15- to 64-year-old women in Shaanxi province were 40.61%, 27.08%, and 24.59%, respectively. The horizontal inequity indices of gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 0.0480, 0.0423, and 0.0764, respectively, and each examination rate was higher for wealthy individuals. The contribution rates of economic status to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 65.80%, 74.31%, and 56.49%, respectively. The contribution rates of educational status to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 21.01%, 14.83% and 30.00%, respectively. The contribution rates of age to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 25.77%, 26.55%, and 18.40%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Women's health examination rates differed between populations with different socio-demographic characteristics. There is pro-wealth inequality in each examination rate. This study found that financial status, age, and education level were the main reasons for the unequal utilization of health examination services. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#China#Female#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Medically Underserved Area#Middle Aged#Papanicolaou Test#Physical Examination#Women's Health Services#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: A close relationship between Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) has been described, but the exact nature of this link remains unclear. Current epidemiological data refer exclusively to the MetS prevalence among patients with COPD and data about the prevalence of COPD in MetS patients are still unavailable.AIM OF THE STUDY: To analyse and compare risk factors, clinical and metabolic characteristics, as well as the main respiratory function parameters, among patients affected by MetS, COPD or both diseases.PATIENTS: We recruited 59 outpatients with MetS and 76 outpatients with COPD. After medical history collection, physical examination, blood sampling for routine analysis, spirometric evaluation, they were subdivided into MetS (n = 46), MetS+COPD (n = 60), COPD (n = 29).RESULTS: A MetS diagnosis was assigned to 62% of COPD patients recruited in the COPD Outpatients Clinic of the Pneumology Department, while the COPD prevalence in MetS patients enrolled in the Internal Medicine Metabolic Disorders Outpatients Clinic was 22%. More than 60% of subjects enrolled in each Department were unaware that they suffered from an additional disease. MetS+COPD patients exhibited significantly higher C-peptide levels. We also found a positive relation between C-peptide and pack-years in all subjects and a negative correlation between C-peptide and vitamin D only in current smokers. Finally, a negative association emerged between smoking and vitamin D.CONCLUSIONS: We have estimated, for the first time, the COPD prevalence in MetS and suggest a potential role of smoking in inducing insulin resistance. Moreover, a direct effect of smoking on vitamin D levels is proposed as a novel mechanism, which may account for both insulin resistance and COPD development. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Smoking#Vitamin D'
b'ApbE is a member of a novel family of flavin transferases that incorporates flavin mononucleotide (FMN) to subunits of diverse respiratory complexes, which fulfill important homeostatic functions. In this work a detailed characterization of Vibrio cholerae ApbE physiologic activity, substrate specificity and pH dependency was carried out. The data obtained show novel characteristics of the regulation and function of this family. For instance, our experiments indicate that divalent cations are essential for ApbE function, and that the selectivity depends largely on size and the coordination sphere of the cation. Our data also show that ApbE regulation by pH, ADP and potassium is an important mechanism that enhances the adaptation, survival and colonization of V. cholerae in the small intestine. Moreover, studies of the pH-dependency of the activity show that the reaction is favored under alkaline conditions, with a pKa of 8.4. These studies, together with sequence and structure analysis allowed us to identify His257, which is absolutely conserved in the family, as a candidate for the residue whose deprotonation controls the activity. Remarkably, the mutant H257G abolished the flavin transfer activity, strongly indicating that this residue plays an important role in the catalytic mechanism of ApbE. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Cations, Divalent#Cations, Monovalent#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Kinetics#Substrate Specificity#Vibrio cholerae'
b'Suboptimal gestational weight gain (GWG), which is linked to increased risk of adverse outcomes for a pregnant woman and her infant, is prevalent. In the study of a large cohort of Canadian pregnant women, our goals are to estimate the individual weight growth trajectory using sparsely collected bodyweight data, and to identify the factors affecting the weight change during pregnancy, such as prepregnancy body mass index (BMI), dietary intakes and physical activity. The first goal was achieved through functional principal component analysis (FPCA) by conditional expectation. For the second goal, we used linear regression with the total weight gain as the response variable. The trajectory modeling through FPCA had a significantly smaller root mean square error (RMSE) and improved adaptability than the classic nonlinear mixed-effect models, demonstrating a novel tool that can be used to facilitate real time monitoring and interventions of GWG. Our regression analysis showed that prepregnancy BMI had a high predictive value for the weight changes during pregnancy, which agrees with the published weight gain guideline. labels: #Body Mass Index#Female#Humans#Models, Theoretical#Pregnancy#Principal Component Analysis#Weight Gain'
b'Condomless anal sex between male partners is the primary risk factor for HIV transmission among men who have sex with men (MSM). Correlates of condomless anal sex have been well-studied in developed countries, but they have received less attention in lower-to-middle income countries (LMIC), where MSM are often subject to stigma, discrimination, intolerance, and even the criminalization of same sex behavior. In Mexico, a LMIC where traditional views on homosexuality are common, HIV prevalence among MSM is high (16.9%), yet little research has been conducted on the correlates of condomless anal sex in this high-risk population. The present study examined correlates of condomless anal sex among 201 MSM recruited in Tijuana, Mexico, with a focus on the role of public sex venues in relation to sexual risk behavior. Eligibility requirements were: biologically male, 18 years of age or older, resident of Tijuana, and self-reported anal or oral sex with a male partner in the past year. Participants completed an interviewer-administered, demographic and psychosocial survey, and were tested for HIV and syphilis. A hierarchical multiple linear regression model was tested to identify correlates of condomless anal sex. Thirty-eight percent of participants (N = 76) reported condomless anal sex with a male partner in the past 2 months. Higher levels of condomless anal sex were associated with higher levels of depressive symptoms, greater sexual compulsivity, and more frequent seeking out of sex partners in a public venue in the past 2 months. In view of these findings, we recommend the development of multi-level, "combination" interventions, which in the Mexican context should include enhanced condom promotion and distribution, improved availability and access to mental health treatment and counseling services, and expanded HIV/STI testing in public venues. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Condoms#HIV Infections#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Sexual Behavior#Sexual Partners#Young Adult'
b'Renalase decreases circulating catecholamines concentration and is important in maintaining primary cellular metabolism. Renalase acts through the plasma membrane calcium ATPase 4b in the heart, which affects pressure overload but not exercise induced heart hypertrophy. The aim of this study was to test the association between a functional polymorphism Glu37Asp (rs2296545) of the renalase gene and left ventricular hypertrophy in a large cohort of patients with aortic stenosis. The study group consisted of 657 patients with aortic stenosis referred for aortic valve replacement. Preoperative echocardiographic assessment was performed to obtain cardiac phenotypes. Generalized-linear models were implemented to analyze data using crude or full model adjusted for selected clinical factors. In females, the Asp37 variant of the Glu37Asp polymorphism was associated with higher left ventricular mass (p = 0.0021 and p = 0.055 crude and full model respectively), intraventricular septal thickness (p = 0.0003 and p = 0.0143) and posterior wall thickness (p = 0.0005 and p = 0.0219) all indexed to body surface area, as well as relative wall thickness (p = 0.001 and p = 0.0097). No significant associations were found among the male patients. In conclusion, we have found the association of the renalase Glu37Asp polymorphism with left ventricle hypertrophy in large group of females with aortic stenosis. The Glu37Asp polymorphism causes not only amino-acid substitution in FAD binding domain but may also change binding affinity of the hypoxia- and hypertrophy-related transcription factors and influence renalase gene expression. Our data suggest that renalase might play a role in hypertrophic response to pressure overload, but the exact mechanism requires further investigation. labels: #Aged#Aortic Valve Stenosis#Binding Sites#Cardiomegaly#Cohort Studies#Echocardiography#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Monoamine Oxidase#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Transcription Factors'
b"TW-37 is a novel, potent and non-peptide Bcl-2 small-molecule inhibitor. Its activity in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells is studied. In both HCT-116 cells and primary human colon cancer cells, treatment with TW-37 at only nM concentration efficiently inhibited cell survival and proliferation. TW-37 also induced caspase-3/9 and apoptosis activation in CRC cells. Feedback autophagy activation was observed in TW-37-treated CRC cells. Reversely pharmacological autophagy inhibition or Beclin-1 knockdown by targeted-shRNA potentiated TW-37-induced apoptosis and killing of CRC cells. In vivo, intravenous injection of TW-37 inhibited HCT-116 tumor growth in mice. TW-37's anti-tumor activity was further potentiated against Beclin-1-silenced HCT-116 tumors. Together, targeting Bcl-2 family protein by TW-37 efficiently inhibits CRC cell growth in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of feedback autophagy activation could further sensitize TW-37. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Benzamides#Cell Proliferation#Colorectal Neoplasms#HCT116 Cells#Humans#Mice#Mice, SCID#Sulfones#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'Theoretical models of populations and swarms typically start with the assumption that the motion of agents is governed by the local stimuli. However, an intelligent agent, with some understanding of the laws that govern its habitat, can anticipate the future, and make predictions to gather resources more efficiently. Here we study a specific model of this kind, where agents aim to maximize their consumption of a diffusing resource, by attempting to predict the future of a resource field and the actions of other agents. Once the agents make a prediction, they are attracted to move towards regions that have, and will have, denser resources. We find that the further the agents attempt to see into the future, the more their attempts at prediction fail, and the less resources they consume. We also study the case where predictive agents compete against non-predictive agents and find the predictors perform better than the non-predictors only when their relative numbers are very small. We conclude that predictivity pays off either when the predictors do not see too far into the future or the number of predictors is small. labels: #Diffusion#Models, Theoretical#Motion'
b'Neisseria meningitidis is the causative agent of invasive meningococcal disease (IMD). A recombinant vaccine called Bexsero\xc2\xae incorporates four subcapsular antigens (fHbp, NHBA, NadA and PorA) which are used to assign a Bexsero\xc2\xae antigen sequence type (BAST) to each meningococcal strain. The vaccine elicits an immune response against combinations of variants of these antigens which have been grouped into specific BAST profiles that have been shown to have different distributions within geographical locations thus potentially affecting the efficacy of the vaccine. In this study, invasive meningococcal disease isolates from the western seaboard of Australia (Western Australia; WA) were compared to those from the south-eastern seaboard (Victoria; VIC) from 2008 to 2012. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of 131 meningococci from VIC and 70 meningococci from WA were analysed for MLST, FetA and BAST profiling. Serogroup B predominated in both jurisdictions and a total of 10 MLST clonal complexes (cc) were shared by both states. Isolates belonging to cc22, cc103 and cc1157 were unique to VIC whilst isolates from cc60 and cc212 were unique to WA. Clonal complex 41/44 represented one-third of the meningococcal population in each state but the predominant ST was locally different: ST-6058 in VIC and ST-146 in WA. Of the 108 BAST profiles identified in this collection, only 9 BASTs were simultaneously observed in both states. A significantly larger proportion of isolates in VIC harboured alleles for the NHBA-2 peptide and fHbp-1, antigenic variants predicted to be covered by the Bexsero\xc2\xae vaccine. The estimate for vaccine coverage in WA (47.1% [95% CI: 41.1-53.1%]) was significantly lower than that in VIC (66.4% [95% CI: 62.3-70.5%]). In conclusion, the antigenic structure of meningococci causing invasive disease in two geographically distinct states of Australia differed significantly during the study period which may affect vaccine effectiveness and highlights the need for representative surveillance when predicting potential impact of meningococcal B vaccines. labels: #Antigens, Bacterial#Genes, Bacterial#Humans#Neisseria meningitidis#Victoria#Western Australia'
b"The progression of Alzheimer's disease is causatively linked to the accumulation of amyloid-\xce\xb2 aggregates in the brain, however, it is not clear how the amyloid aggregates initiate the death of neuronal cells. The in vitro toxic effects of amyloid peptides are most commonly examined using the human neuroblastoma derived SH-SY5Y cell line and here we show that differentiated neuron-like SH-SY5Y cells are more sensitive to amyloid peptides than non-differentiated cells, because the latter lack long neurites. Exogenous soluble amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 covered cell bodies and whole neurites in differentiated cells with dense fibrils, causing neurite beading and fragmentation, whereas preformed amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 fibrils had no toxic effects. Importantly, spontaneously fibrillizing amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 peptide exhibited substantially higher cellular toxicity than amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-40, which did not form fibrils under the experimental conditions. These results support the hypothesis that peptide toxicity is related to the active fibrillization process in the incubation mixture. labels: #Amyloid beta-Peptides#Apoptosis#Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Tumor#Humans#Neurites#Peptide Fragments"
b"Tuberculosis is a fatal human infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) that is prevalent worldwide. Mycobacteria differ from other bacteria in that they have a cell wall composed of specific surface glycans that are the major determinant of these organisms' pathogenicity. The interaction of M. tuberculosis with pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), in particular C-type lectin receptors (CLRs), on the surface of macrophages plays a central role in initiating innate and adaptive immunity, but the picture as a whole remains a puzzle. Defining novel mechanisms by which host receptors interact with pathogens in order to modulate a specific immune response is an area of intense research. In this study, based on an in vitro lectin binding assay, CLEC9A (DNGR-1) is identified as a novel CLR that binds with mycobacteria. Our results with CLEC9A-knocked down cells and a CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein as blocking agents show that CLEC9A is involved in the activation of SYK and MAPK signaling in response to heat-killed M. tuberculosis H37Ra treatment, and it then promotes the production of CXCL8 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in macrophages. The CXCL8 and IL-1\xce\xb2 secreted by the activated macrophages are critical to neutrophil recruitment and activation. In a in vivo mouse model, when the interaction between CLEC9A and H37Ra is interfered with by treatment with CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein, this reduces lung inflammation and cell infiltration. These findings demonstrate that CLEC9A is a specialized receptor that modulates the innate immune response when there is a mycobacterial infection. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Hot Temperature#Humans#Lectins, C-Type#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Neutrophils#Protein Kinases#Receptors, Mitogen#Signal Transduction"
b'Neuromodulation of peripheral nerves with bioelectronic devices is a promising approach for treating a wide range of disorders. Wireless powering could enable long-term operation of these devices, but achieving high performance for miniaturized and deeply placed devices remains a technological challenge. We report the miniaturized integration of a wireless powering system in soft neuromodulation device (15 mm length, 2.7 mm diameter) and demonstrate high performance (about 10%) during in vivo wireless stimulation of the vagus nerve in a porcine animal model. The increased performance is enabled by the generation of a focused and circularly polarized field that enhances efficiency and provides immunity to polarization misalignment. These performance characteristics establish the clinical potential of wireless powering for emerging therapies based on neuromodulation. labels: #Animals#Electrodes#Equipment Design#Female#Miniaturization#Peripheral Nerves#Swine#Wireless Technology'
b'Alopecia X is a hair cycle arrest disorder in Pomeranians. Histologically, kenogen and telogen hair follicles predominate, whereas anagen follicles are sparse. The induction of anagen relies on the activation of hair follicle stem cells and their subsequent proliferation and differentiation. Stem cell function depends on finely tuned interactions of signaling molecules and transcription factors, which are not well defined in dogs. We performed transcriptome profiling on skin biopsies to analyze altered molecular pathways in alopecia X. Biopsies from five affected and four non-affected Pomeranians were investigated. Differential gene expression revealed a downregulation of key regulator genes of the Wnt (CTNNB1, LEF1, TCF3, WNT10B) and Shh (SHH, GLI1, SMO, PTCH2) pathways. In mice it has been shown that Wnt and Shh signaling results in stem cell activation and differentiation Thus our findings are in line with the lack of anagen hair follicles in dogs with Alopecia X. We also observed a significant downregulation of the stem cell markers SOX9, LHX2, LGR5, TCF7L1 and GLI1 whereas NFATc1, a quiescence marker, was upregulated in alopecia X. Moreover, genes coding for enzymes directly involved in the sex hormone metabolism (CYP1A1, CYP1B1, HSD17B14) were differentially regulated in alopecia X. These findings are in agreement with the so far proposed but not yet proven deregulation of the sex hormone metabolism in this disease. labels: #Alopecia#Animals#Biomarkers#Dogs#Female#Hair#Male#Receptors, Calcitriol#Stem Cells'
b'BACKGROUND: We have previously shown that an HIV vaccine regimen including three doses of HIV-modified vaccinia virus Ankara vector expressing HIV-1 antigens from clade B (MVA-B) was safe and elicited moderate and durable (1 year) T-cell and antibody responses in 75% and 95% of HIV-negative volunteers (n = 24), respectively (RISVAC02 study). Here, we describe the long-term durability of vaccine-induced responses and the safety and immunogenicity of an additional MVA-B boost.METHODS: 13 volunteers from the RISVAC02 trial were recruited to receive a fourth dose of MVA-B 4 years after the last immunization. End-points were safety, cellular and humoral immune responses to HIV-1 and vector antigens assessed by ELISPOT, intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) and ELISA performed before and 2, 4 and 12 weeks after receiving the boost.RESULTS: Volunteers reported 64 adverse events (AEs), although none was a vaccine-related serious AE. After 4 years from the 1st dose of the vaccine, only 2 volunteers maintained low HIV-specific T-cell responses. After the late MVA-B boost, a modest increase in IFN-\xce\xb3 T-cell responses, mainly directed against Env, was detected by ELISPOT in 5/13 (38%) volunteers. ICS confirmed similar results with 45% of volunteers showing that CD4+ T-cell responses were mainly directed against Env, whereas CD8+ T cell-responses were similarly distributed against Env, Gag and GPN. In terms of antibody responses, 23.1% of the vaccinees had detectable Env-specific binding antibodies 4 years after the last MVA-B immunization with a mean titer of 96.5. The late MVA-B boost significantly improved both the response rate (92.3%) and the magnitude of the systemic binding antibodies to gp120 (mean titer of 11460). HIV-1 neutralizing antibodies were also enhanced and detected in 77% of volunteers. Moreover, MVA vector-specific T cell and antibody responses were boosted in 80% and 100% of volunteers respectively.CONCLUSIONS: One boost of MVA-B four years after receiving 3 doses of the same vaccine was safe, induced moderate increases in HIV-specific T cell responses in 38% of volunteers but significantly boosted the binding and neutralizing antibody responses to HIV-1 and to the MVA vector.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01923610. labels: #AIDS Vaccines#Antibodies, Neutralizing#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#HIV Antibodies#HIV-1#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Immunization, Secondary#Placebos'
b"The African lion is the only big cat listed on CITES Appendix II, and the only one for which international commercial trade is legal under CITES. The trade in lion body parts, and especially the contentious trade in bones from South Africa to Asia, has raised concerns spanning continents and cultures. Debates were amplified at the 2016 CITES Conference of the Parties (CoP17) when a proposal to up-list lions to Appendix I was not supported and a compromise to keep them on Appendix II, with a bone trade quota for South Africa, was reached instead. CoP17 underscored a need for further information on the lion bone trade and the consequences for lions across the continent. Legal international trade in bones to Asia, allegedly to supply the substitute 'tiger bone' market, began in South Africa in February 2008 when the first CITES permits were issued. It was initially unclear the degree to which bones were sourced from captive-origin lions, and whether trade was a threat to wild lion populations. Our original assessment of the legal CITES-permitted lion bone trade from South Africa to East-Southeast Asia was for the period 2008-2011 (published 2015). In this paper, we consolidate new information that has become available for 2012-2016, including CITES reports from other African countries, and data on actual exports for three years to 2016 supplied by a freight forwarding company. Thus, we update the figures on the legal trade in lion bones from Africa to East-Southeast Asia in the period 2008-2016. We also contextualise the basis for global concerns by reviewing the history of the trade and its relation to tigers, poaching and wildlife trafficking. CITES permits issued to export bones escalated from \xc2\xb1314y-1 skeletons from 2008-2011, to \xc2\xb11312y-1 skeletons from 2013-2015. South Africa was the only legal exporter of bones to Asia until 2013 when Namibia issued permits to export skeletons to Vietnam. While CITES permits to export \xc2\xb15363 skeletons from Africa to Asia from 2008-2015 were issued (99.1% from South Africa; 0.7% from Namibia) (51% for Laos), actual exports were less than stated on the permits. However, information on actual exports from 2014-2016 indicated that>3400 skeletons were exported in that period. In total,>6000 skeletons weighing no less than 70 tonnes have been shipped to East-Southeast Asia since 2008. Since few wild lions are hunted and poached within South African protected areas, skeletons for the legal trade appear to be derived from captive bred lions. However, confirmation of a 116kg shipment from Uganda to Laos, and reports of lion poaching in neighbouring countries, indicate that urgent proactive monitoring and evaluation of the legal and illegal trade is necessary in African lion range states where vulnerable wild lion populations are likely to be adversely affected. labels: #Africa#Animals#Asia, Southeastern#Bone and Bones#Commerce#Lions"
b'The initial theoretical connections between Leontief input-output models and Markov chains were established back in 1950s. However, considering the wide variety of mathematical properties of Markov chains, so far there has not been a full investigation of evolving world economic networks with Markov chain formalism. In this work, using the recently available world input-output database, we investigated the evolution of the world economic network from 1995 to 2011 through analysis of a time series of finite Markov chains. We assessed different aspects of this evolving system via different known properties of the Markov chains such as mixing time, Kemeny constant, steady state probabilities and perturbation analysis of the transition matrices. First, we showed how the time series of mixing times and Kemeny constants could be used as an aggregate index of globalization. Next, we focused on the steady state probabilities as a measure of structural power of the economies that are comparable to GDP shares of economies as the traditional index of economies welfare. Further, we introduced two measures of systemic risk, called systemic influence and systemic fragility, where the former is the ratio of number of influenced nodes to the total number of nodes, caused by a shock in the activity of a node, and the latter is based on the number of times a specific economic node is affected by a shock in the activity of any of the other nodes. Finally, focusing on Kemeny constant as a global indicator of monetary flow across the network, we showed that there is a paradoxical effect of a change in activity levels of economic nodes on the overall flow of the world economic network. While the economic slowdown of the majority of nodes with high structural power results to a slower average monetary flow over the network, there are some nodes, where their slowdowns improve the overall quality of the network in terms of connectivity and the average flow of the money. labels: #Economics#Internationality#Markov Chains#Models, Theoretical'
b'Recent findings suggest that vertebral osteophytes increase the resistance of the spine to compression. However, the role of vertebral osteophytes on the biomechanical response of the spine under fast dynamic compression, up to failure, is unclear. Seventeen human spine specimens composed of three vertebrae (from T5-T7 to T11-L1) and their surrounding soft tissues were harvested from nine cadavers, aged 77 to 92 years. Specimens were imaged using quantitative computer tomography (QCT) for medical observation, classification of the intervertebral disc degeneration (Thomson grade) and measurement of the vertebral trabecular density (VTD), height and cross-sectional area. Specimens were divided into two groups (with (n = 9) or without (n = 8) substantial vertebral body osteophytes) and compressed axially at a dynamic displacement rate of 1 m/s, up to failure. Normalized force-displacement curves, videos and QCT images allowed characterizing failure parameters (force, displacement and energy at failure) and fracture patterns. Results were analyzed using chi-squared tests for sampling distributions and linear regression for correlations between VTD and failure parameters. Specimens with substantial vertebral body osteophytes present higher stiffness (2.7 times on average) and force at failure (1.8 times on average) than other segments. The presence of osteophytes significantly influences the location, pattern and type of fracture. VTD was a good predictor of the dynamic force and energy at failure for specimens without substantial osteophytes. This study also showed that vertebral body osteophytes provide a protective mechanism to the underlying vertebra against severe compression fractures. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Cadaver#Female#Fractures, Compression#History, 18th Century#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Osteophyte#Spinal Fractures#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b"The aim of this study was to determine the normal location, wall thickness and motility of the right dorsal colon in adult ponies and miniature horses. The abdominal ultrasonography examination was performed in a study group consisting of 23 ponies and miniature horses and in a control group comprising ten Thoroughbred horses. The procedure was performed in unsedated standing animals. The location and the thickness of the right dorsal colonic wall was examined on the right side of the abdomen between the 10th and the 14th intercostal space. The contractility was recorded in the 12th intercostal space. A comparative analysis between the study group and control group was carried out using the Student's t-test. Pearson's linear correlation coefficient was used to calculate the correlation between the thickness of the colonic wall as well as the number of peristaltic movements and age, wither height and body mass of the animals. The right dorsal colon was identified in all the horses in the 12th intercostal space. In all the intercostal spaces the mean \xc2\xb1 standard deviation (SD) wall thickness of the right dorsal colon was 0.27 \xc2\xb1 0.03 cm in the horses from the study group and 0.37 \xc2\xb1 0.03 cm in the control horses. The mean number of peristaltic contractions was 4.05 \xc2\xb1 1.07 per minute in the animals from the study group and 1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.46 contractions per minute in the control group. The values of the ultrasonographic wall thickness and peristaltic motility in small breed horses in the present study were different from the values obtained for large breed horses. The study also found that the right dorsal colon in small breed horses is physiologically located in the 12th intercostal space. This suggests that different reference values should be used in small horse breeds when performing an ultrasound examination. labels: #Animals#Colon#Horse Diseases#Horses#Peristalsis#Ultrasonography"
b"Citizen report cards on health care providers have been identified as a potential means to increase citizen engagement, provider accountability and health systems performance. Research in high-income settings indicates that the wording, presentation and display of performance information are critical to achieve these goals. However, there are limited insights on developing effective report card designs for middle- and low-income settings. We conducted cognitive interviews to assess consumers' understanding, interpretation of and preferences for displaying information for a health care report card in rural Tajikistan. We recruited a convenience sample of 40 citizens (20 women and 20 men aged 18-45) from rural areas of two provinces of Tajikistan (Soghd and Khatlon oblasts). The interview protocol was adapted from the model of cognitive interviews used in social science research to improve survey questionnaires. We used multivariate regression to assess understanding and interpretation of the report card; chi2 tests to assess differences in preferences for displaying information; and tests of proportions to assess the preferred comparison group. Respondents understood the main idea of the report card and are not confused by the indicators or display. However, many respondents had difficulties making comparisons, and when asked to identify worst-performing services. Respondents preferred detailed rankings using school grades, comparisons of their local clinic with the regional or national average performance, and the use of color in the report card. We found some heterogeneity across the two provinces. Overall, our findings are promising regarding the citizens' comprehension of health care report cards in rural Tajikistan, while underscoring the challenges of effectively providing health care performance information to communities. Cognitive interviews and iterative testing can support an effective implementation of reporting initiatives. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Developing Countries#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Male#Middle Aged#Primary Health Care#Rural Health Services#Tajikistan#Young Adult"
b'Open scholarship, such as the sharing of articles, code, data, and educational resources, has the potential to improve university research and education as well as increase the impact universities can have beyond their own walls. To support this perspective, I present evidence from case studies, published literature, and personal experiences as a practicing open scholar. I describe some of the challenges inherent to practicing open scholarship and some of the tensions created by incompatibilities between institutional policies and personal practice. To address this, I propose several concrete actions universities could take to support open scholarship and outline ways in which such initiatives could benefit the public as well as institutions. Importantly, I do not think most of these actions would require new funding but rather a redistribution of existing funds and a rewriting of internal policies to better align with university missions of knowledge dissemination and societal impact. labels: #Information Dissemination#Research#Universities'
b'BACKGROUND: Data on long-term outcomes of patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) in sub-Saharan Africa are few. We describe outcomes of patients commenced on ART at Newlands Clinic between 2004 and 2006 after \xe2\x89\xa510 years of comprehensive care including, psychosocial, adherence and food support.METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, patient data from an electronic medical record collected during routine care were analysed. We describe baseline characteristics, virological and clinical outcomes, attrition rates, and treatment adverse effects until November 2016. We defined virological suppression as viral load<50 copies/ml and virological failure as>1000 copies/ml after \xe2\x89\xa56 months of ART.RESULTS: We analysed data for 605 patients (67% female) who commenced ART, and were followed-up for 5819 person-years (median: 10.7 years, IQR: 10.1-11.4). Median age at ART initiation was 34 years (IQR: 17-42). Pre-ART, 129 (21.3%) patients had history of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB). In care, 66 (11%) developed PTB, and 24 (4%) developed extrapulmonary tuberculosis. 385 (63.6%) patients experienced \xe2\x89\xa51 adverse event, the most frequent being stavudine-induced peripheral neuropathy (n = 252, 41.7%). At database closure on 14 November 2016, 474 (78.3%) patients were still in care, 428 (90.3%) being virologically suppressed, and 21 (4.4%) failing. While 483 (79.8%) remained on first line, 122 (20.2%) were switched to second line ART. Fifty-nine patients (9.8%) were transferred to other ART facilities, 45 (7.4%) were lost to follow-up, 25 (4.1%) died, and two stopped ART.CONCLUSION: Comprehensive HIV care can result in low mortality, high retention in care and virologic suppression rates in resource limited settings. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Ambulatory Care Facilities#Anti-HIV Agents#Cohort Studies#Comprehensive Health Care#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Lost to Follow-Up#Male#Young Adult#Zimbabwe'
b'Genetic disruption of the dystrophin complex produces muscular dystrophy characterized by a fragile muscle plasma membrane leading to excessive muscle degeneration. Two genetic modifiers of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy implicate the transforming growth factor \xce\xb2 (TGF\xce\xb2) pathway, osteopontin encoded by the SPP1 gene and latent TGF\xce\xb2 binding protein 4 (LTBP4). We now evaluated the functional effect of these modifiers in the context of muscle injury and repair to elucidate their mechanisms of action. We found that excess osteopontin exacerbated sarcolemmal injury, and correspondingly, that loss of osteopontin reduced injury extent both in isolated myofibers and in muscle in vivo. We found that ablation of osteopontin was associated with reduced expression of TGF\xce\xb2 and TGF\xce\xb2-associated pathways. We identified that increased TGF\xce\xb2 resulted in reduced expression of Anxa1 and Anxa6, genes encoding key components of the muscle sarcolemma resealing process. Genetic manipulation of Ltbp4 in dystrophic muscle also directly modulated sarcolemmal resealing, and Ltbp4 alleles acted in concert with Anxa6, a distinct modifier of muscular dystrophy. These data provide a model in which a feed forward loop of TGF\xce\xb2 and osteopontin directly impacts the capacity of muscle to recover from injury, and identifies an intersection of genetic modifiers on muscular dystrophy. labels: #Animals#Annexin A1#Annexin A6#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Genes, Modifier#Latent TGF-beta Binding Proteins#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred DBA#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Dystrophy, Animal#Osteopontin#Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta#Recovery of Function#Sarcolemma'
b'Coral reef ecosystems of many sub-tropical and tropical marine coastal environments have suffered significant degradation from anthropogenic sources. Research to inform management strategies that mitigate stressors and promote a healthy ecosystem has focused on the ecology and physiology of coral reefs and associated organisms. Few studies focus on the surrounding pelagic communities, which are equally important to ecosystem function. Zooplankton, often dominated by small crustaceans such as copepods, is an important food source for invertebrates and fishes, especially larval fishes. The reef-associated zooplankton includes a sub-neustonic copepod family that could serve as an indicator species for the community. Here, we describe the generation of a de novo transcriptome for one such copepod, Labidocera madurae, a pontellid from an intensively-studied coral reef ecosystem, K\xc4\x81ne\'ohe Bay, Oahu, Hawai\'i. The transcriptome was assembled using high-throughput sequence data obtained from whole organisms. It comprised 211,002 unique transcripts, including 72,391 with coding regions. It was assessed for quality and completeness using multiple workflows. Bench-marking-universal-single-copy-orthologs (BUSCO) analysis identified transcripts for 88% of expected eukaryotic core proteins. Targeted gene-discovery analyses included searches for transcripts coding full-length "giant" proteins (>4,000 amino acids), proteins and splice variants of voltage-gated sodium channels, and proteins involved in the circadian signaling pathway. Four different reference transcriptomes were generated and compared for the detection of differential gene expression between copepodites and adult females; 6,229 genes were consistently identified as differentially expressed between the two regardless of reference. Automated bioinformatics analyses and targeted manual gene curation suggest that the de novo assembled L. madurae transcriptome is of high quality and completeness. This transcriptome provides a new resource for assessing the global physiological status of a planktonic species inhabiting a coral reef ecosystem that is subjected to multiple anthropogenic stressors. The workflows provide a template for generating and assessing transcriptomes in other non-model species. labels: #Animals#Copepoda#Coral Reefs#Ecosystem#Environmental Monitoring#Hawaii#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Transcriptome'
b'Estrogens act by binding to estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ER\xce\xb1, ER\xce\xb2), ligand-dependent transcription factors that play crucial roles in sex differentiation, tumor growth and cardiovascular physiology. Estrogens also activate the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER), however the function of GPER in vivo is less well understood. Here we find that GPER is required for normal heart rate in zebrafish embryos. Acute exposure to estrogens increased heart rate in wildtype and in ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 mutant embryos but not in GPER mutants. GPER mutant embryos exhibited reduced basal heart rate, while heart rate was normal in ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 mutants. We detected gper transcript in discrete regions of the brain and pituitary but not in the heart, suggesting that GPER acts centrally to regulate heart rate. In the pituitary, we observed gper expression in cells that regulate levels of thyroid hormone triiodothyronine (T3), a hormone known to increase heart rate. Compared to wild type, GPER mutants had reduced levels of T3 and estrogens, suggesting pituitary abnormalities. Exposure to exogenous T3, but not estradiol, rescued the reduced heart rate phenotype in gper mutant embryos, demonstrating that T3 acts downstream of GPER to regulate heart rate. Using genetic and mass spectrometry approaches, we find that GPER regulates maternal estrogen levels, which are required for normal embryonic heart rate. Our results demonstrate that estradiol plays a previously unappreciated role in the acute modulation of heart rate during zebrafish embryonic development and suggest that GPER regulates embryonic heart rate by altering maternal estrogen levels and embryonic T3 levels. labels: #Animals#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Embryonic Development#Estradiol#Estrogens#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Heart Rate#Mutation#Pituitary Gland#Receptors, Estrogen#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Signal Transduction#Triiodothyronine#Zebrafish#Zebrafish Proteins'
b'INTRODUCTION: The prognostic value of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and the correlation between EGFR mutations and the new International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer/American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society (IASLC/ATS/ERS) histological classification remain controversial. The current study aimed to investigate the pure prognostic role of EGFR mutations in treatment-na\xc3\xafve patients with resected stage I lung adenocarcinoma.METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 373 patients with stage I pulmonary non-small-cell lung cancer who underwent complete surgical resection between January 2010 and May 2014. The tumors were classified according to IASLC/ATS/ERS criteria. EGFR mutation status was determined by established methods.RESULTS: A total of 120 patients were included for analysis; 87 had tumors with EGFR mutations and 33 had wild-type tumors. More low- and intermediate-grade tumors had EGFR mutations, and nearly half of the high-grade tumors were wild-type (75.7% versus 46.2%, p = 0.041). Patients with low-grade tumors had significantly greater median disease-free survival (DFS) (76.8 versus 13 months, p<0.0001) and better overall survival (OS) (median OS not reached, p = 0.0003) than those with intermediate- and high-grade tumors. Tumor recurrence was 41.4% and 30.3% in mutant and wild-type patients. The 5-years survival rate was 54% and 71.2%. Multivariate analysis revealed that the new histological classification and the pathologic stage were independent predictors of both DFS and OS. EGFR mutation status had no prognostic implications.CONCLUSION: Low grade tumors according to IASLC/ATS/ERS histological classification and the pathologic stage IA tumors of resected stage I lung adenocarcinomas independently predict better DFS and OS. EGFR mutations were frequently seen in histologically low- and intermediate-grade tumors but not a prognostic factor. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aged#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Prognosis#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor'
b'Autophagy is a physiological process for the recycling and degradation of cellular materials. Forming the autophagosome from the phagophore, a cup-shaped double-membrane vesicle, is a critical step in autophagy. The origin of the cup shape of the phagophore is poorly understood. In yeast, fusion of a small number of Atg9-containing vesicles is considered a key step in autophagosome biogenesis, aided by Atg1 complexes (ULK1 in mammals) localized at the preautophagosomal structure (PAS). In particular, the S-shaped Atg17-Atg31-Atg29 subcomplex of Atg1 is critical for phagophore nucleation at the PAS. To study this process, we simulated membrane remodeling processes in the presence and absence of membrane associated Atg17. We show that at least three vesicles need to fuse to induce the phagophore shape, consistent with experimental observations. However, fusion alone is not sufficient. Interactions with 34-nm long, S-shaped Atg17 complexes are required to overcome a substantial kinetic barrier in the transition to the cup-shaped phagophore. Our finding rationalizes the recruitment of Atg17 complexes to the yeast PAS, and their unusual shape. In control simulations without Atg17, with weakly binding Atg17, or with straight instead of S-shaped Atg17, the membrane shape transition did not occur. We confirm the critical role of Atg17-membrane interactions experimentally by showing that mutations of putative membrane interaction sites result in reduction or loss of autophagic activity in yeast. Fusion of a small number of vesicles followed by Atg17-guided membrane shape-remodeling thus emerges as a viable route to phagophore formation. labels: #Autophagosomes#Autophagy#Autophagy-Related Proteins#Binding Sites#Cell Membrane#Computer Simulation#Membrane Fluidity#Membrane Fusion#Models, Chemical#Models, Molecular#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'In mammals, protein arginine methyltransferase 5, PRMT5, is the main type II enzyme responsible for the majority of symmetric dimethylarginine formation in polypeptides. Recent study reported that PRMT5 restricts Hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication through epigenetic repression of HBV DNA transcription and interference with encapsidation of pregenomic RNA. Here we demonstrate that PRMT5 interacts with the HBV core (HBc) protein and dimethylates arginine residues within the arginine-rich domain (ARD) of the carboxyl-terminus. ARD consists of four arginine rich subdomains, ARDI, ARDII, ARDIII and ARDIV. Mutation analysis of ARDs revealed that arginine methylation of HBc required the wild-type status of both ARDI and ARDII. Mass spectrometry analysis of HBc identified multiple potential ubiquitination, methylation and phosphorylation sites, out of which lysine K7 and arginines R150 (within ARDI) and R156 (outside ARDs) were shown to be modified by ubiquitination and methylation, respectively. The HBc symmetric dimethylation appeared to be linked to serine phosphorylation and nuclear import of HBc protein. Conversely, the monomethylated HBc retained in the cytoplasm. Thus, overexpression of PRMT5 led to increased nuclear accumulation of HBc, and vice versa, down-regulation of PRMT5 resulted in reduced levels of HBc in nuclei of transfected cells. In summary, we identified PRMT5 as a potent controller of HBc cell trafficking and function and described two novel types of HBc post-translational modifications (PTMs), arginine methylation and ubiquitination. labels: #Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Mass Spectrometry#Methylation#Phosphorylation#Protein-Arginine N-Methyltransferases#Subcellular Fractions#Ubiquitination#Virus Replication'
b"CNS-directed therapies for the treatment of leukemia can adversely affect the acquisition of new skills, such as reading/writing and math. Two years after the end of treatments, children show gross and fine motor skill delays that may persist even when patients are considered healed. The goal of the present study was to assess motor skills difficulties in pre-school children with leukemia one year after treatment. Particular attention has been paid to those patients who had undergone Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) and to the relationship between motor delays and age bands. Participants were 60 children (median age of 5; inter quartile range: 3.07-5.76), including 31 females and 29 males, 91.7% of them were affected by acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and 8.3% by acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Five children had undergone HCST. Parents were interviewed by Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS) on children's motor skills and filled in the Italian Temperament Questionnaire (QUIT). VABS's total scores were converted into equivalent mental age scores (EMA). A score difference of at least three months between current age and equivalent mental age was considered a developmental delay. Non-parametric analyses were run to understand if HSCT treatment and a specific age band influence children's motor skills. Significant delays were found in global motor skills (56.7%) as well as in fine and gross motor domains. Mann Whitney U tests showed that children with HSCT were reported to have lower gross motor mean ranks (U = 62; p = 0.004; Mean rank = 15.40) than peers without HSCT (Mean rank = 31.87) and lower mean rank values on motor temperament scale (U = 9; p = 0.003; HSCT Mean rank = 4.75 versus no HSCT Mean rank = 27.81). Kruskal Wallis' tests identified the high risk treatment showing that HSCT experience negatively impacted the motor skills and temperamental motor activity of pre-school children one year after the diagnosis of leukemia. labels: #Child, Preschool#Female#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Male#Motor Skills#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#Risk Factors"
b'There are two biological systems available for removing phosphorus from waste water, conventional phosphorus removal (CPR) and denitrifying phosphorus removal (DPR) systems, and each is characterized by the type of sludge used in the process. In this study, we compared the characteristics associated with the efficiency of carbon utilization between CPR and DPR sludge using acetate as a carbon source. For DPR sludge, the heat emitted during the phosphorus release and phosphorus uptake processes were 45.79 kJ/mol e- and 84.09 kJ/mol e-, respectively. These values were about 2 fold higher than the corresponding values obtained for CPR sludge, suggesting that much of the energy obtained from the carbon source was emitted as heat. Further study revealed a smaller microbial mass within the DPR sludge compared to CPR sludge, as shown by a lower sludge yield coefficient (0.05 gVSS/g COD versus 0.36 gVSS/g COD), a result that was due to the lower energy capturing efficiency of DPR sludge according to bioenergetic analysis. Although the efficiency of anoxic phosphorus removal was only 39% the efficiency of aerobic phosphorus removal, the consumption of carbon by DPR sludge was reduced by 27.8% compared to CPR sludge through the coupling of denitrification with dephosphatation. labels: #Aerobiosis#Bioreactors#Calorimetry#Carbon#Denitrification#Energy Metabolism#Phosphorus#Sewage#Thermodynamics'
b'We evaluate the ability of cryopreserved rabbit amniotic membrane (AM) transplantation to reduce postoperative inflammation and the extent of fibrosis following experimental strabismus surgery. Ten white rabbits underwent bilateral superior rectus (SR) muscle resection. In the left eye, the resected SR muscle was wrapped with cryopreserved rabbit AM. The right eye underwent SR resection only and served as a control. The eyes were enucleated 4 weeks after strabismus surgery. The degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration, the extent of fibrosis, and profile of the relative expression of inflammatory mediators in the SR muscle were evaluated and compared between the two groups by histological analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). There were statistically meaningful differences in the degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration and extent of fibrosis between the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM after SR resection and those underwent SR resection only. A significant decrease in the expression of inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-12a, IL-12b, IL-17f, and tumor necrosis factor- alpha (TNF-\xce\xb1)], and a markedly increased expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines (transforming growth factor-beta-1(TGF\xce\xb2-1) and IL-10) were observed in the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM. In this study, we demonstrate that cryopreserved rabbit AM is effective in reducing postoperative inflammation and extent of fibrosis in a rabbit model of strabismus surgery. Our results imply that cryopreserved AM allograft has anti-inflammatory and anti-scarring properties that can prevent postoperative adhesions following strabismus surgery. labels: #Amnion#Animals#Cryopreservation#Cytokines#Fibrosis#Inflammation#Inflammation Mediators#Rabbits#Strabismus'
b'OBJECTIVE: Available reports on critically ill adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) suggest improving short-term outcomes. However, there is marked heterogeneity in reported findings, with studies mostly based on single-centered data, limiting generalizability. We sought to examine population-level patterns of demand for critical care resources, and the characteristics, resource utilization, and outcomes of ICU-managed adults with CF.METHODS: We used the Texas Inpatient Public Use Data File to identify ICU admissions with CF aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years in Texas between 2004-2013. We examined ICU utilization at population level (using CF Foundation annual reports) and, among ICU admissions, socio-demographic characteristics, burden of comorbidities, organ failure, life-support utilization and hospital disposition. Linear regression and multilevel logistic regression were used to examine temporal trends and predictors of short-term mortality (hospital death and discharge to hospice), respectively.RESULTS: Of 9,579 hospitalizations of adults with CF, 1,249 (13%) were admitted to ICU. The incidence of ICU admission among adults with CF in Texas increased between 2004-2005 and 2012-2013 from 16.7 to 19.2 per 100 person-years (p = 0.0181), with ICU admissions aged \xe2\x89\xa530 years accounting for 80.3% of the change. Among ICU admissions the following changes were noted between 2004-2005 and 2012-2013: any organ failure 30.2% vs. 56.3% (p = 0.0004), mechanical ventilation 11.5% vs. 19.2% (p = 0.0216), and hemodialysis 1.0% vs. 8.1% (p = 0.0007). Short-term mortality for the whole cohort and for those with mechanical ventilation was 11.4% and 41.8%, respectively, with corresponding home discharge among survivors 84% and 62.1%, respectively. Key predictors (adjusted odds ratios [aOR (95% CI)]) of short-term mortality included age \xe2\x89\xa545 years (2.051 [1.231-3.415]), female gender (1.907 [1.237-2.941]), and mechanical ventilation (7.982 [5.001-12.739]).CONCLUSIONS: Adults with CF had high and rising population-level burden of critical illness. Although ICU admissions were increasingly older and sicker, the majority survived hospitalization, with most discharged home, supporting short-term benefits of critical care in the present cohort. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Critical Illness#Cystic Fibrosis#Female#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Young Adult'
b'Clubroot caused by Plasmodiophora brassicae, is a severe disease of cruciferous crops that causes large hypertrophic galls in the roots. The plant microbiome is important for growth promotion and disease suppression. In this study, using 16S rRNA and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing techniques, we compared the endosphere microbiome of symptomatic and asymptomatic B. napus roots infected with P. brassicae collected from the same natural clubroot field. The results showed that the microbial population and its relative abundance in the asymptomatic roots was far higher than that in the symptomatic roots, and that many microorganisms in asymptomatic roots have biological control and plant growth promotion functions that may be related to clubroot symptoms. These results suggest the importance of the endosphere microbiome in clubroot disease and provide potential bio-control resources for its prevention. labels: #Brassica napus#Cercozoa#Cluster Analysis#Microbiota#Plant Roots#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'Drosophila Wingless (Wg) is a morphogen that determines cell fate during development. Previous studies have shown that endocytic pathways regulate Wg trafficking and signaling. Here, we showed that loss of vamp7, a gene required for vesicle fusion, dramatically increased Wg levels and decreased Wg signaling. Interestingly, we found that levels of Dally-like (Dlp), a glypican that can interact with Wg to suppress Wg signaling at the dorsoventral boundary of the Drosophila wing, were also increased in vamp7 mutant cells. Moreover, Wg puncta in Rab4-dependent recycling endosomes were Dlp positive. We hypothesize that VAMP7 is required for Wg intracellular trafficking and the accumulation of Wg in Rab4-dependent recycling endosomes might affect Wg signaling. labels: #Animals#Biological Transport#Drosophila#Drosophila Proteins#R-SNARE Proteins#Signal Transduction#Wnt1 Protein'
b"BACKGROUND: People with stroke have a low peak aerobic capacity and experience increased effort during performance of daily activities. The purpose of this study was to examine test-retest reliability of a portable ergospirometry system in people with stroke during performance of functional activities in a field-test. Secondary aims were to examine the proportion of oxygen consumed during the field-test in relation to the peak-test and to analyse the correlation between the oxygen uptake during the field-test and peak-test in order to support the validity of the field-test.METHODS: With simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption, participants performed a standardized field-test consisting of five activities; walking over ground, stair walking, stepping over obstacles, walking slalom between cones and from a standing position lifting objects from one height to another. All activities were performed in self-selected speed. Prior to the field-test, a peak aerobic capacity test was performed. The field-test was repeated minimum 2 and maximum 14 days between the tests. ICC2,1 and Bland Altman tests (Limits of Agreement, LoA) were used to analyse test-retest reliability.RESULTS: In total 31 participants (39% women, mean (SD) age 54.5 (12.7) years and 21.1 (14.3) months' post-stroke) were included. The ICC2,1 was \xe2\x89\xa5 0.80 for absolute V\xcc\x87O2, relative V\xcc\x87O2, minute ventilation, CO2, respiratory exchange ratio, heart rate and Borgs rating of perceived exertion. ICC2,1 for total time to complete the field-test was 0.99. Mean difference in steady state V\xcc\x87O2 during Test 1 and Test 2 was -0.40 (2.12) The LoAs were -3.75 and 4.51. Participants spent 60.7% of their V\xcc\x87O2peak performing functional activities. Correlation between field-test and peak-test was 0.689, p = 0.001 for absolute and 0.733, p = 0.001 for relative V\xcc\x87O2.CONCLUSIONS: This study presents first evidence on reliability of oxygen uptake during performance of functional activities after stroke, showing very good test-retest reliability. The secondary analysis showed that the amount of energy spent during the field-test relative to the peak-test was high and the correlation between the two test was good, supporting the validity of this method. labels: #Adult#Cognition#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Postural Balance#Spirometry#Stroke"
b'The giant mud crab Scylla serrata provides an important source of income and food to coastal communities in East Africa. However, increasing demand and exploitation due to the growing coastal population, export trade, and tourism industry are threatening the sustainability of the wild stock of this species. Because effective management requires a clear understanding of the connectivity among populations, this study was conducted to assess the genetic diversity and connectivity in the East African mangrove crab S. serrata. A section of 535 base pairs of the cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) gene and eight microsatellite loci were analysed from 230 tissue samples of giant mud crabs collected from Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Madagascar, and South Africa. Microsatellite genetic diversity (He) ranged between 0.56 and 0.6. The COI sequences showed 57 different haplotypes associated with low nucleotide diversity (current nucleotide diversity = 0.29%). In addition, the current nucleotide diversity was lower than the historical nucleotide diversity, indicating overexploitation or historical bottlenecks in the recent history of the studied population. Considering that the coastal population is growing rapidly, East African countries should promote sustainable fishing practices and sustainable use of mangrove resources to protect mud crabs and other marine fauna from the increasing pressure of exploitation. While microsatellite loci did not show significant genetic differentiation (p>0.05), COI sequences revealed significant genetic divergence between sites on the East coast of Madagascar (ECM) and sites on the West coast of Madagascar, mainland East Africa, as well as the Seychelles. Since East African countries agreed to achieve the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) target to protect over 10% of their marine areas by 2020, the observed pattern of connectivity and the measured genetic diversity can serve to provide useful information for designing networks of marine protected areas. labels: #Africa, Eastern#Animals#Conservation of Natural Resources#Crustacea#Fisheries#Genetic Variation#Microsatellite Repeats#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a highly debilitating disease of unknown aetiology. Abnormalities in bioenergetic function have been cited as one possible cause for CFS. Preliminary studies were performed to investigate cellular bioenergetic abnormalities in CFS patients. A series of assays were conducted using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from CFS patients and healthy controls. These experiments investigated cellular patterns in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and glycolysis. Results showed consistently lower measures of OXPHOS parameters in PBMCs taken from CFS patients compared with healthy controls. Seven key parameters of OXPHOS were calculated: basal respiration, ATP production, proton leak, maximal respiration, reserve capacity, non-mitochondrial respiration, and coupling efficiency. While many of the parameters differed between the CFS and control cohorts, maximal respiration was determined to be the key parameter in mitochondrial function to differ between CFS and control PBMCs due to the consistency of its impairment in CFS patients found throughout the study (p\xe2\x89\xa40.003). The lower maximal respiration in CFS PBMCs suggests that when the cells experience physiological stress they are less able to elevate their respiration rate to compensate for the increase in stress and are unable to fulfil cellular energy demands. The metabolic differences discovered highlight the inability of CFS patient PBMCs to fulfil cellular energetic demands both under basal conditions and when mitochondria are stressed during periods of high metabolic demand. labels: #Adult#Energy Metabolism#Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic#Female#Glucose#Glycolysis#Humans#Leukocytes, Mononuclear#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidative Phosphorylation'
b'Disinfectants play an important role in controlling microbial contamination on hard surfaces in hospitals. The effectiveness of disinfectants in real life can be predicted by laboratory tests that measure killing of microbes on carriers. The modified Quantitative Disk Carrier Test (QCT-2) is a standard laboratory method that employs American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) Type 430 stainless steel carriers to measure hospital disinfectant efficacy against Clostridium difficile spores. The formation of a rust-colored precipitate was observed on Type 430 carriers when testing a peracetic acid (PAA)-based disinfectant with the QCT-2 method. It was hypothesized that the precipitate was indicative of corrosion of the Type 430 carrier, and that corrosion could impact efficacy results. The objective of this study was to compare the suitability of AISI Type 430 to Type 304 stainless steel carriers for evaluating PAA-based disinfectants using the QCT-2 method. Type 304 is more corrosion-resistant than Type 430, is ubiquitous in healthcare environments, and is used in other standard methods. Suitability of the carriers was evaluated by comparing their impacts on efficacy results and PAA degradation rates. In efficacy tests with 1376 ppm PAA, reductions of C. difficile spores after 5, 7 and 10 minutes on Type 430 carriers were at least about 1.5 log10 lower than reductions on Type 304 carriers. In conditions simulating a QCT-2 test, PAA concentration with Type 430 carriers was reduced by approximately 80% in 10 minutes, whereas PAA concentration in the presence of Type 304 carriers remained stable. Elemental analyses of residues on each carrier type after efficacy testing were indicative of corrosion on the Type 430 carrier. Use of Type 430 stainless steel carriers for measuring the efficacy of PAA-based disinfectants should be avoided as it can lead to an underestimation of real life sporicidal efficacy. Type 304 stainless steel carriers are recommended as a suitable alternative. labels: #Clostridium difficile#Disinfectants#Peracetic Acid#Spores, Bacterial#Stainless Steel#Surface Properties'
b'Baseline information on demographics and practices on semi-intensive free-range egg farms with an outdoor stocking density of \xe2\x89\xa41500 hens/hectare in Australia is presented. Free-range egg production is changing the structure of the egg industry in Australia and a broad variety and tiers of free-range systems have emerged due to lack of concrete legislative standards on outdoor stocking densities in the past. Information was extracted from a pre-existing online free-range poultry survey dataset, consisting of a total of 79 questions related to nutrition, pasture management, welfare and health, animal housing, environmental impact and economics. Forty-one free-range egg farms, with an outdoor stocking density of \xe2\x89\xa41500 hens/hectare, were identified in the dataset from all major Australian states. Two types of semi-intensive free-range housing systems were documented: mobile (modified caravan/trailer) housing (56%), and fixed sheds (44%). Seventy-two percent of respondents reported>75% of the hens in the flock used the outdoor range. All respondents reported ingestion of range components by hens in the form of vegetation, insects, stones and grit. Up to 10% mortality was reported by 40% respondents with predation (34%), cannibalism (29%), heat stress (24%) and grass impaction (19.5%) as major causes. Biosecurity on farms was sub-optimal with 8 of the 10 actions implemented by<50% respondents. Customer demand, consumer sentiment and welfare were the major factors for farmers moving into free-range egg production. This study resulted in identification of current practices and key challenges on semi-intensive free-range egg farms. Applied research and communication of results to farmers is highly recommended to ensure optimum health and welfare of free-range laying hens and sustained egg production. labels: #Animal Feed#Animal Welfare#Animals#Australia#Chickens#Housing, Animal'
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigated the effect and mechanism of zinc-finger protein 418 (ZNF418) on cardiac hypertrophy caused by aortic banding (AB), phenylephrine (PE) or angiotensin II (Ang II) in vivo and in vitro.METHODS: The expression of ZNF418 in hearts of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice, as well as in Ang II- or PE-induced hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes was detected by western blotting. Then, the expression of ZNF418 was up-regulated or down-regulated in AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice and Ang II -induced hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes. The hypertrophic responses and fibrosis were evaluated by echocardiography and histological analysis. The mRNA levels of hypertrophy markers and fibrotic markers were detected by RT-qPCR. Furthermore, the phosphorylation and total levels of c-Jun were measured by western blotting.RESULTS: ZNF418 was markedly down-regulated in hearts of cardiac hypertrophy and hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes. Down-regulated ZNF418 exacerbated the myocyte size and fibrosis, moreover increased the mRNA levels of ANP, BNP, \xce\xb2-MHC, MCIP1.4, collagen 1a, collagen III, MMP-2 and fibronection in hearts of AB-treated ZNF418 knockout mice or Ang II-treated cardiomyocytes with AdshZNF418. Conversely, these hypertrophic responses were reduced in the ZNF418 transgenic (TG) mice treated by AB and the AdZNF418-transfected primary cardiomyocytes treated by Ang II. Additionally, the deficiency of ZNF418 enhanced the phosphorylation level of c-jun, and overexpression of ZNF418 suppressed the phosphorylation level of c-jun in vivo and in vitro.CONCLUSION: ZNF418 maybe attenuate hypertrophic responses by inhibiting the activity of c-jun/AP-1. labels: #Angiotensin II#Animals#Cardiomegaly#Cells, Cultured#Down-Regulation#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Repressor Proteins#Transcription Factor AP-1'
b'Silicon (Si) is a macroelement in plants. The biological effects and mitigation mechanisms of silicon under environmental stress have become hot topics. The main objectives of this study were to elucidate the roles of Si in alleviating the effects on the phenotype, micromorphology and anatomy of the leaves of rice seedlings under acid rain stress. The results indicated that the combined or single effects of Si and simulated acid rain (SAR) stress on rice roots depended on the concentration of Si and the intensity of the SAR stress. The combined or single effects of the moderate concentration of Si (2.0 mM) and light SAR (pH 4.0) enhanced the growth of the rice leaves and the development of the mesophyll cells, and the combined effects were stronger than those of the single treatments. The high concentration of Si (4.0 mM) and severe SAR (pH 3.0 or 2.0) exerted deleterious effects. The incorporation of Si (2.0 or 4.0 mM) into SAR at pH values of 3.0 or 2.0 promoted rice leaf growth, decreased necrosis spots, maintained the structure and function of the mesophyll cells, increased the epicuticular wax content and wart-like protuberance (WP) density, and improved the stomatal characteristics of the leaves of rice seedlings more than the SAR only treatments. The alleviatory effects observed with a moderate concentration of Si (2.0 mM) were better than the effects obtained with the high concentration of Si (4.0 mM). The alleviatory effects were due to the enhancement of the mechanical barriers in the leaf epidermis. labels: #Acid Rain#Mesophyll Cells#Oryza#Plant Leaves#Silicon'
b'BACKGROUND: The antiretroviral drug nevirapine and the antimalarial artemisinin-based combination therapy artemether-lumefantrine are commonly co-administered to treat malaria in the context of HIV. Nevirapine is a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, which metabolizes artemether and lumefantrine. To address the concern that the antiretroviral nevirapine impacts the antimalarial artemether-lumefantrine pharmacokinetics, a prospective non-randomized controlled study in children presenting with uncomplicated malaria and HIV in sub-Saharan Africa was carried out.METHODS: Participants received artemether-lumefantrine (20/120 mg weight-based BID) for 3 days during nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) co-administration (158-266 mg/m2 QD). HIV positive participants who were not yet on ART drugs were also enrolled as the control group. The target enrollment was children aged 3-12 years (n = 24 in each group). Intensive pharmacokinetics after the last artemether-lumefantrine dose was assessed for artemether, its active metabolite dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine. Pharmacokinetic parameters (area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (AUC), maximum concentration and day 7 lumefantrine concentrations) were estimated using non-compartmental methods and compared to controls.RESULTS: Nineteen children (16 on nevirapine and three not on ART) enrolled. Fifteen of the 16 (aged 4 to 11 years) on nevirapine-based ART were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis. Due to evolving WHO HIV treatment guidelines, insufficient children were enrolled in the control group (n = 3), so the pharmacokinetic data were compared to a historical control group of 20 HIV-uninfected children 5-12 years of age who also presented with malaria and underwent identical study procedures. Decreases of pharmacokinetic exposure [as estimated by AUC (AUC0-8hr)] were marginally significant for artemether (by -46%, p = 0.08) and dihydroartemisinin (-22%, p = 0.06) in the children on nevirapine-based ART, compared to when artemether-lumefantrine was administered alone. Similarly, peak concentration was decreased by 50% (p = 0.07) for artemether and 36% (p = 0.01) for dihydroartemisinin. In contrast, exposure to lumefantrine increased significantly in the context of nevirapine [AUC0-120hr:123% (p<0.001); Cday7:116% (p<0.001), Cmax: 95% (p<0.001)].CONCLUSIONS: Nevirapine-based ART increases the exposure to lumefantrine in pre-pubescent children with a trend toward diminished artemether and dihydroartemisinin exposure. These findings contrast with other studies indicating NVP reduces or results in no change in exposure of antimalarial drugs, and may be specific to this age group (4-12 years). Considering the excellent safety profile of artemether-lumefantrine, the increase in lumefantrine is not of concern. However, the reduction in artemisinin exposure may warrant further study, and suggests that dosage adjustment of artemether-lumefantrine with nevirapine-based ART in children is likely warranted. labels: #Africa South of the Sahara#Antimalarials#Artemisinins#Child#Child, Preschool#Ethanolamines#Female#Fluorenes#Humans#Male#Nevirapine'
b'The model of population growth is revised in this paper. A new model is proposed based on the concept of fractional differentiation that uses the generalized Mittag-Leffler function as kernel of differentiation. The new model includes the choice of sexuality. The existence of unique solution is investigated and numerical solution is provided. labels: #Animals#Female#Humans#Male#Models, Theoretical#Population Growth#Sexuality'
b'Lipid lowering properties of glucagon have been reported. Blocking glucagon signaling leads to rise in plasma LDL levels. Here, we demonstrate the lipid lowering effects of acute dosing with Glp1r/Gcgr dual agonist (DualAG). All the experiments were performed in 25 week-old male diet-induced (60% kCal fat) obese mice. After 2 hrs of fasting, mice were injected subcutaneously with vehicle, liraglutide (25nmol/kg) and DualAG (25nmol/kg). De novo cholesterol and palmitate synthesis was measured by deuterium incorporation method using D2O. 13C18-oleate infusion was used for measuring fatty acid esterification. Simultaneous activation of Glp1r and Gcgr resulted in decrease in plasma triglyceride and cholesterol levels. DualAG enhanced hepatic LDLr protein levels, along with causing decrease in content of plasma ApoB48 and ApoB100. VLDL secretion, de novo palmitate synthesis and fatty acid esterification decreased with acute DualAG treatment. On the other hand, ketone levels were elevated with DualAG treatment, indicating increased fatty acid oxidation. Lipid relevant changes were absent in liraglutide treated group. In an acute treatment, DualAG demonstrated significant impact on lipid homeostasis, specifically on hepatic uptake, VLDL secretion and de novo synthesis. These effects collectively reveal that lipid lowering abilities of DualAG are primarily through glucagon signaling and are liver centric. labels: #Animals#Cholesterol#Glucagon#Glucagon-Like Peptide Receptors#Lipid Metabolism#Lipogenesis#Liver#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Triglycerides'
b'The identification and study of antigen-specific CD4 T cells, both in peripheral blood and in tissues, is key for a broad range of immunological research, including vaccine responses and infectious diseases. Detection of these cells is hampered by both their rarity and their heterogeneity, in particular with regards to cytokine secretion profiles. These factors prevent the identification of the total pool of antigen-specific CD4 T cells by classical methods. We have developed assays for the highly sensitive detection of such cells by measuring the upregulation of surface activation induced markers (AIM). Here, we compare two such assays based on concurrent expression of CD69 plus CD40L (CD154) or expression of OX40 plus CD25, and we develop additional AIM assays based on OX40 plus PD-L1 or 4-1BB. We compare the relative sensitivity of these assays for detection of vaccine and natural infection-induced CD4 T cell responses and show that these assays identify distinct, but overlapping populations of antigen-specific CD4 T cells, a subpopulation of which can also be detected on the basis of cytokine synthesis. Bystander activation had minimal effect on AIM markers. However, some T regulatory cells upregulate CD25 upon antigen stimulation. We therefore validated AIM assays designed to exclude most T regulatory cells, for both human and non-human primate (NHP, Macaca mulatta) studies. Overall, through head-to-head comparisons and methodological improvements, we show that AIM assays represent a sensitive and valuable method for the detection of antigen-specific CD4 T cells. labels: #Animals#Antigens#Antigens, CD#Biomarkers#Bystander Effect#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cohort Studies#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Macaca mulatta'
b'Pigs have experienced long-term selections, resulting in dramatic phenotypic changes. Structural variants (SVs) are reported to exert extensive impacts on phenotypic changes. We built a high resolution and informative SV map based on high-depth sequencing data from 66 Chinese domestic and wild pigs. We inferred the SV formation mechanisms in the pig genome and used SVs as materials to perform a population-level analysis. We detected the selection signals on chromosome X for northern Chinese domestic pigs, as well as the differentiated loci across the whole genome. Analysis showed that these loci differ between southern and northern Chinese domestic pigs. Our results based on SVs provide new insights into genetic differences in Chinese pigs. labels: #Animals#China#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Selection, Genetic#Sus scrofa#Swine#X Chromosome'
b'AIM: Metastasis of tumor cells occurs through lymphatic vessels, blood vessels and transcoelomic spreading. Growing evidence from in vivo and in vitro studies has indicated that tumor lymphangiogenesis facilitates metastasis. However, the regulation of lymphangiogenesis in colon cancer remains unclear. The aims of this study were to identify key miRNAs in colon cancer lymphangiogenesis and to investigate its target and mechanism.METHODS: miRNA microarray analysis was conducted to identify miRNAs in human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs) that were regulated by co-cultured human colon cancer cells. Gain- and loss-of-function studies were performed to determine the function of miR-27a, a top hint, on lymphangiogenesis and migration in HLECs. Furthermore, bioinformatics prediction and experimental validation were performed to identify miR-27a target genes in lymphangiogenesis.RESULTS: We found that expression of miR-27a in HLECs was induced by co-culturing with colon cancer cells. Over-expression of miR-27a in HLECs enhanced lymphatic tube formation and migration, whereas inhibition of miR-27a reduced lymphatic tube formation and migration. Luciferase reporter assays showed that miR-27a directly targeted SMAD4, a pivotal component of the TGF-\xce\xb2 pathway. In addition, gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments showed that SMAD4 negatively regulated the length of lymphatic vessels formed by HLECs and migration.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicated that colon cancer cell induced the expression of miR-27a in HLECs, which promoted lymphangiogenesis by targeting SMAD4. Our finding implicated miR-27a as a potential target for new anticancer therapies in colon cancer. labels: #Cells, Cultured#Coculture Techniques#Colonic Neoplasms#Humans#Lymphangiogenesis#Lymphatic Vessels#MicroRNAs#Signal Transduction#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b'Osteocytes are the most abundant cell in the bone, and have multiple functions including mechanosensing and regulation of bone remodeling activities. Since osteocytes are embedded in the bone matrix, their inaccessibility makes in vivo studies problematic. Therefore, a non-invasive technique with high spatial resolution is desired. The purpose of this study is to investigate the use of third harmonic generation (THG) microscopy as a noninvasive technique for high-resolution imaging of the lacunar-canalicular network (LCN) in live mice. By performing THG imaging in combination with two- and three-photon fluorescence microscopy, we show that THG signal is produced from the bone-interstitial fluid boundary of the lacuna, while the interstitial fluid-osteocyte cell boundary shows a weaker THG signal. Canaliculi are also readily visualized by THG imaging, with canaliculi oriented at small angles relative to the optical axis exhibiting stronger signal intensity compared to those oriented perpendicular to the optical axis (parallel to the image plane). By measuring forward- versus epi-detected THG signals in thinned versus thick bone samples ex vivo, we found that the epi-collected THG from the LCN of intact bone contains a superposition of backward-directed and backscattered forward-THG. As an example of a biological application, THG was used as a label-free imaging technique to study structural variations in the LCN of live mice deficient in both histone deacetylase 4 and 5 (HDAC4, HDAC5). Three-dimensional analyses were performed and revealed statistically significant differences between the HDAC4/5 double knockout and wild type mice in the number of osteocytes per volume and the number of canaliculi per lacunar surface area. These changes in osteocyte density and dendritic projections occurred without differences in lacunar size. This study demonstrates that THG microscopy imaging of the LCN in live mice enables quantitative analysis of osteocytes in animal models without the use of dyes or physical sectioning. labels: #Animals#Histone Deacetylases#Intravital Microscopy#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Osteocytes#Skull'
b"Parental investment in Arapaima gigas includes nest building and guarding, followed by a care provision when a cephalic fluid is released from the parents' head to the offspring. This fluid has presumably important functions for the offspring but so far its composition has not been characterised. In this study the proteome and peptidome of the cephalic secretion was studied in parental and non-parental fish using capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry (CE-MS) and GeLC-MS/MS analyses. Multiple comparisons revealed 28 peptides were significantly different between males and parental males (PC-males), 126 between females and parental females (PC-females), 51 between males and females and 9 between PC-males and PC-females. Identification revealed peptides were produced in the inner ear (pcdh15b), eyes (tetraspanin and ppp2r3a), central nervous system (otud4, ribeye a, tjp1b and syn1) among others. A total of 422 proteins were also identified and gene ontology analysis revealed 28 secreted extracellular proteins. From these, 2 hormones (prolactin and stanniocalcin) and 12 proteins associated to immunological processes (serotransferrin, \xce\xb1-1-antitrypsin homolog, apolipoprotein A-I, and others) were identified. This study provides novel biochemical data on the lateral line fluid which will enable future hypotheses-driven experiments to better understand the physiological roles of the lateral line in chemical communication. labels: #Animals#Behavior, Animal#Chromatography, Liquid#Electrophoresis, Capillary#Female#Fishes#Male#Peptides#Proteome#Tandem Mass Spectrometry"
b'BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in Western countries. Both iron and lipid metabolism seem to be involved in its pathogenesis. We aimed to assess the relationship between levels of hepcidin, the master iron-regulatory protein, in plasma and the presence of NAFLD in morbidly obese (MO) patients, and to investigate the association between the hepatic expression of the main iron and lipid metabolism -related genes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to measure plasma hepcidin levels in 49 normal-weight control women, 23 MO women with normal liver (NL) histology and 46 MO women with NAFLD. The mRNA expression of hepcidin, the main iron metabolism-related genes, and the main lipid-metabolism genes was quantified by qRT-PCR in liver biopsies from members of the MO group undergoing bariatric surgery.RESULTS: Circulating hepcidin levels were significantly greater in MO than in normal-weight control women. However, there were no significant differences between MO women with NL and those with NAFLD. PCR analysis showed increased expression of hepcidin, FPN1, TfR1 and TfR2 in the liver of MO NAFLD women compared to those with NL. Moreover, a positive association of hepatic hepcidin mRNA expression and the iron metabolism-related genes was found with some key genes involved in the lipid metabolism.CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that circulating hepcidin levels are associated with obesity but not with the presence of NAFLD. However, the hepatic expression of hepcidin and the iron metabolism-related genes seem to play a role in regulating lipid metabolism pathways in liver, which has implications for NAFLD pathogenesis. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Hepcidins#Humans#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Obesity, Morbid'
b'Chloroplast (cp) genomes of Lilium amabile, L. callosum, L. lancifolium, and L. philadelphicum were fully sequenced. Using these four novel cp genome sequences and five other previously sequenced cp genomes, features of the cp genomes were characterized in detail among species in the genus Lilium and other related genera in the order Liliales. The lengths and nucleotide composition showed little variation. No structural variation was found among the cp genomes in Liliales. Gene contents were conserved among four newly sequenced cp genome in Lilium species, the only differences being in two pseudogenes. We identified 112 genes in 13 functional categories, 18 of which carried introns that were conserved among the species in Liliales. There were 16-21 SSR loci (>12 bp,>3 repeats) in the cp genomes in Lilium and the genomic locations of these loci were highly variable among the species. Average mutations were 15 SNPs per 1kb and 5 indels per 1kb, respectively, in the cp genomes of the newly sequenced four Lilium species. Phylogenetic classifications revealed some discrepancies between trees based on the cp genomes and previous classifications based on the morphology and geographic distributions. labels: #Chloroplasts#Genome, Plant#INDEL Mutation#Introns#Lilium#Phylogeny#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Species Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: The emerging chikungunya virus (CHIKV), is an arbovirus causing intense outbreaks in North America. The situation in Mexico is alarming, and CHIKV threatens to spread further throughout North America. Clinical and biological features of CHIKF outbreaks in Mexico have not been well described; thus, we conducted a cross sectional study of a CHIKV outbreak in Chiapas, Southern Mexico to further characterize these features.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We collected blood samples from patients suspected of having chikungunya fever (CHIKF) who presented to Clinical Hospital ISSSTE Dr. Roberto Nettel in Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico. In addition to the clinical examination, real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) standardized for the Asian Chikungunya lineage and/or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin M (IgM) were used to confirm CHIKV diagnosis. Of a total of 850 patients who presented with probably CHIKV at Hospital "Dr. Roberto Nettel", 112 probable CHIKF cases were enrolled in this study from November 2014- June 2015, of which 95 patients (84.8%) were CHIKV positive and 17 were negative (15.2%). Of these 95 CHIKV positive patients, 62 were positive by real-time reverse transcriptase PCR (+qRT-PCR); and 33 were seropositive to +IgM with a negative qRT-PCR. The most frequent symptoms reported were fever (100%), headache (82.3%), polyarthralgia (72.1%), and exanthem (82.3%). Biological abnormalities observed during CHIKV infection were lymphopenia (41.1%), leukopenia (51.6%), elevated transaminases (30.5%-46.3%) and high LDH (46.3%) and CRP (60.0%).CONCLUSION: Clinical and biological data obtained from this study is providing more useful information for benchmarking purposes with outbreaks from different parts of the world and would be helpful for better patient care and treatment. labels: #Chikungunya Fever#Cross-Sectional Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Humans#Mexico#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'The \xce\xbb-Red recombination system is a popular method for gene editing. However, its applications are limited due to restricted electroporation of DNA fragments. Here, we present an electroporation-free \xce\xbb-Red recombination method in which target DNA fragments are excised by I-CreI endonuclease in vivo from the landing pad plasmid. Subsequently, the I-SceI endonuclease-cutting chromosome and DNA double-strand break repair were required. Markerless deletion and genomic replacement were successfully accomplished by this novel approach. Eight nonessential regions of 2.4-104.4 kb in the Escherichia coli DH1 genome were deleted separately with selection efficiencies of 5.3-100%. Additionally, the recombination efficiencies were 2.5-45%, representing an order of magnitude improvement over the electroporation method. For example, for genomic replacement, lycopene expression flux (3.5 kb) was efficiently and precisely integrated into the chromosome, accompanied by replacement of nonessential regions separately into four differently oriented loci. The lycopene production level varied approximately by 5- and 10-fold, corresponding to the integrated position and expression direction, respectively, in the E. coli chromosome. labels: #Carotenoids#Chromosomes, Bacterial#Electroporation#Escherichia coli#Genome, Bacterial#Plasmids#Recombination, Genetic#Sequence Deletion'
b"Corbicula fluminea is an aggressive invasive species of bivalve that arrived into the R\xc3\xado de la Plata River between the late 60's and early 70's, and dispersed widely throughout the Neotropical region, evidencing a great adaptive flexibility to different environmental conditions. This species is a functional hermaphrodite with larval incubation inside the inner demibranch. Despite its widespread distribution, there are no previous studies of complete gonadal histology and reproductive cycle for this species in the Neotropical region. In this study, the reproductive dynamics of C. fluminea in a temperate region, the Santa Catalina Pampean stream, Argentina, is described. Samples of 20-30 individuals were collected monthly from April 2003-April 2005 and processed using traditional histological techniques. During the two years of this study, seven spawning events were recognized. Three major spawns occurred in spring and summer, and other four minor ones during summer and autumn. Events of oocyte recovery were observed after spawning. A high number of incubating individuals was detected. The results stressed the difficulty of identifying a particular pattern of gamete release and of spawning behaviour in this invasive species, especially when inhabiting an unstable environment. labels: #Animals#Argentina#Corbicula#Environmental Monitoring#Gonads#Introduced Species#Rivers#Seasons"
b"Response inhibition is frequently measured by the Go/no-go and Stop-signal tasks. These two are often used indiscriminately under the assumption that both measure similar inhibitory control abilities. However, accumulating evidence show differences in both tasks' modulations, raising the question of whether they tap into equivalent cognitive mechanisms. In the current study, a comparison of the performance in both tasks took place under the influence of negative stimuli, following the assumption that ''controlled inhibition'', as measured by Stop-signal, but not ''automatic inhibition'', as measured by Go/no-go, will be affected. 54 young adults performed a task in which negative pictures, neutral pictures or no-pictures preceded go trials, no-go trials, and stop-trials. While the exposure to negative pictures impaired performance on go trials and improved the inhibitory capacity in Stop-signal task, the inhibitory performance in Go/no-go task was generally unaffected. The results support the conceptualization of different mechanisms operated by both tasks, thus emphasizing the necessity to thoroughly fathom both inhibitory processes and identify their corresponding cognitive measures. Implications regarding the usage of cognitive tasks for strengthening inhibitory capacity among individuals struggling with inhibitory impairments are discussed. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Inhibition (Psychology)#Male#Reaction Time#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult"
b'Leptospirosis is a globally emerging zoonotic disease, associated with various climatic, biotic and abiotic factors. Mapping and quantifying geographical variations in the occurrence of leptospirosis and the surrounding environment offer innovative methods to study disease transmission and to identify associations between the disease and the environment. This study aims to investigate geographic variations in leptospirosis incidence in the Netherlands and to identify associations with environmental factors driving the emergence of the disease. Individual case data derived over the period 1995-2012 in the Netherlands were geocoded and aggregated by municipality. Environmental covariate data were extracted for each municipality and stored in a spatial database. Spatial clusters were identified using kernel density estimations and quantified using local autocorrelation statistics. Associations between the incidence of leptospirosis and the local environment were determined using Simultaneous Autoregressive Models (SAR) explicitly modelling spatial dependence of the model residuals. Leptospirosis incidence rates were found to be spatially clustered, showing a marked spatial pattern. Fitting a spatial autoregressive model significantly improved model fit and revealed significant association between leptospirosis and the coverage of arable land, built up area, grassland and sabulous clay soils. The incidence of leptospirosis in the Netherlands could effectively be modelled using a combination of soil and land-use variables accounting for spatial dependence of incidence rates per municipality. The resulting spatially explicit risk predictions provide an important source of information which will benefit clinical awareness on potential leptospirosis infections in endemic areas. labels: #Cluster Analysis#Environment#Geography#Humans#Incidence#Leptospirosis#Netherlands#Risk Factors'
b'Energy and time expenditures are determinants of bird migration strategies. Soaring birds have developed migration strategies to minimize these costs, optimizing the use of all the available resources to facilitate their displacement. We analysed the effects of different wind factors (tailwind, turbulence, vertical updrafts) on the migratory flying strategies adopted by 24 satellite-tracked American white pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) throughout spring and autumn in North America. We hypothesize that different wind conditions encountered along migration routes between spring and autumn induce pelicans to adopt different flying strategies and use of these wind resources. Using quantile regression and fine-scale atmospheric data, we found that the pelicans optimized the use of available wind resources, flying faster and more direct routes in spring than in autumn. They actively selected tailwinds in both spring and autumn displacements but relied on available updrafts predominantly in their spring migration, when they needed to arrive at the breeding regions. These effects varied depending on the flying speed of the pelicans. We found significant directional correlations between the pelican migration flights and wind direction. In light of our results, we suggest plasticity of migratory flight strategies by pelicans is likely to enhance their ability to cope with the effects of ongoing climate change and the alteration of wind regimes. Here, we also demonstrate the usefulness and applicability of quantile regression techniques to investigate complex ecological processes such as variable effects of atmospheric conditions on soaring migration. labels: #Animal Migration#Animals#Birds#Flight, Animal#North America#Seasons#Wind'
b'The utility of HepG2 cells to assess drug metabolism and toxicity induced by chemical compounds is hampered by their low cytochrome P450 (CYP) activities. To overcome this limitation, we established HepG2 cell lines expressing major CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism (CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) and CYP oxidoreductase (POR) using the mammalian-derived artificial chromosome vector. Transchromosomic HepG2 (TC-HepG2) cells expressing four CYPs and POR were used to determine time- and concentration-dependent inhibition and toxicity of several compounds by luminescence detection of CYP-specific substrates and cell viability assays. Gene expression levels of all four CYPs and POR, as well as the CYP activities, were higher in TC-HepG2 clones than in parental HepG2 cells. Additionally, the activity levels of all CYPs were reduced in a concentration-dependent manner by specific CYP inhibitors. Furthermore, preincubation of TC-HepG2 cells with CYP inhibitors known as time-dependent inhibitors (TDI) prior to the addition of CYP-specific substrates determined that CYP inhibition was enhanced in the TDI group than in the non-TDI group. Finally, the IC50 of bioactivable compound aflatoxin B1 was lower in TC-HepG2 cells than in HepG2 cells. In conclusion, the TC-HepG2 cells characterized in the current study are a highly versatile model to evaluate drug-drug interactions and hepatotoxicity in initial screening of candidate drug compounds, which require a high degree of processing capacity and reliability. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Chromosomes, Artificial, Mammalian#Cytochrome P-450 Enzyme System#Enzyme Inhibitors#Humans#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Models, Biological'
b'Scleroderma has clinical characteristics including skin and other tissue fibrosis, but there is an unmet need for anti-fibrotic therapy. Halofuginone (HF) is a well-known anti-fibrosis agent in preclinical and clinical studies which exerts its effect via inhibition of TGF-\xce\xb2/Smad3 signaling pathway. Recently, prolyl-tRNA synthetase (PRS) was elucidated as a target protein for HF that binds to the proline binding site of the catalytic domain of PRS. Here, we characterized a new class of PRS inhibitor (T-3833261) that is carefully designed in a way that binds to the ATP site of the catalytic domain and does not disrupt binding of proline. The anti-fibrotic activity and the mechanism of action for T-3833261 on TGF-\xce\xb2-induced fibrotic assay were compared with those of HF in primary human skin fibroblast. We evaluated in vivo effect of topical application of T-3833261 and HF on TGF-\xce\xb2-induced fibrotic genes expression in mice. We found that T-3833261 suppressed TGF-\xce\xb2-induced \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA) and type I collagen \xce\xb11 (COL1A1) expression through the Smad3 axis in a similar fashion to HF. In vivo topical application of T-3833261 reduced the increase of fibrotic genes expression such as \xce\xb1-Sma, Col1a1 and Col1a2 by TGF-\xce\xb2 intradermal injection to the ear of a mouse. We revealed that T-3833261 is more effective than HF under the conditions of high proline concentration, as reported in fibrotic tissues. These results suggest the potential of ATP competitive PRS inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases such as scleroderma. labels: #Amino Acyl-tRNA Synthetases#Animals#Cells, Cultured#Drug Discovery#Enzyme Inhibitors#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C3H#Scleroderma, Systemic'
b'BACKGROUND: The evidence for association between Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection and risk of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is inconsistent in the literature. Therefore, this meta-analysis was conducted to clarify this association.METHODS: A literature search was conducted in electronic databases for English- and Chinese-language publications until March 31, 2017 to include eligible case-control studies. The pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were estimated to determine the association between EBV infection and OSCC risk using a fixed- or random-effects model based on heterogeneity. Publication bias was assessed using funnel plot analysis.RESULTS: A total of 13 case-control studies with 686 OSCC patients and 433 controls were included based on predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The pooled OR with 95% CI between EBV infection and OSCC risk was 5.03 (1.80-14.01) with significant heterogeneity observed (I2 = 87%). The subgroup analysis indicates that the year of publication, study location, economic level, sample size, tissue type, detection method and marker, control type, and language might explain potential sources of heterogeneity. Publication bias was not observed, and sensitivity analysis showed stable results.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current meta-analysis suggest that EBV infection is statistically associated with increased risk of OSCC. However, additional high-quality studies with larger sample sizes are needed to further confirm the relationship between EBV and OSCC. labels: #Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Case-Control Studies#Epstein-Barr Virus Infections#Humans#Mouth Neoplasms'
b'During interphase, the nuclear envelope (NE) serves as a selective barrier between cytosol and nucleoplasm. When vertebrate cells enter mitosis, the NE is dismantled in the process of nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD). Disassembly of nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) is a key aspect of NEBD, required for NE permeabilization and formation of a cytoplasmic mitotic spindle. Here, we show that both CDK1 and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) support mitotic NPC disintegration by hyperphosphorylation of Nup98, the gatekeeper nucleoporin, and Nup53, a central nucleoporin linking the inner NPC scaffold to the pore membrane. Multisite phosphorylation of Nup53 critically contributes to its liberation from its partner nucleoporins, including the pore membrane protein NDC1. Initial steps of NPC disassembly in semi-permeabilized cells can be reconstituted by a cocktail of mitotic kinases including cyclinB-CDK1, NIMA, and PLK1, suggesting that the unzipping of nucleoporin interactions by protein phosphorylation is an important principle underlying mitotic NE permeabilization. labels: #CDC2 Protein Kinase#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleus#Cyclin-Dependent Kinases#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mitosis#Nuclear Envelope#Nuclear Pore#Nuclear Pore Complex Proteins#Phosphorylation#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins'
b'In animal cells, nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD) is required for proper chromosome segregation. Whereas mitotic kinases have been implicated in NEBD, how they coordinate their activity to trigger this event is unclear. Here, we show that both in human cells and Caenorhabditis elegans, the Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK-1) is recruited to the nuclear pore complexes, just prior to NEBD, through its Polo-box domain (PBD). We provide evidence that PLK-1 localization to the nuclear envelope (NE) is required for efficient NEBD. We identify the central channel\xc2\xa0nucleoporins NPP-1/Nup58, NPP-4/Nup54, and NPP-11/Nup62 as the critical factors anchoring PLK-1 to the NE in C.\xc2\xa0elegans. In particular, NPP-1, NPP-4, and NPP-11 primed at multiple Polo-docking sites by Cdk1 and PLK-1 itself physically interact with the PLK-1 PBD. We conclude that nucleoporins play an unanticipated regulatory role in NEBD, by recruiting PLK-1 to the NE thereby facilitating phosphorylation of critical downstream targets. labels: #Animals#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleus#Embryo, Nonmammalian#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mitosis#Nuclear Envelope#Nuclear Pore#Nuclear Pore Complex Proteins#Phosphorylation#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins'
b'The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) in animals and yeast assures equal segregation of chromosomes during cell division. The prevalent occurrence of polyploidy in flowering plants together with the observation that many plants can be readily forced to double their genomes by application of microtubule drugs raises the question of whether plants have a proper SAC. Here, we provide a functional framework of the core SAC proteins in Arabidopsis. We reveal that Arabidopsis will delay mitosis in a SAC-dependent manner if the spindle is perturbed. However, we also show that the molecular architecture of the SAC is unique in plants. Moreover, the SAC is short-lived and cannot stay active for more than 2\xc2\xa0hr, after which the cell cycle is reset. This\xc2\xa0resetting opens the possibility for genome duplications and raises the hypothesis that a rapid termination of a SAC-induced mitotic arrest provides an\xc2\xa0adaptive advantage for plants impacting plant genome evolution. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Cell Cycle Proteins#Microtubules#Mitosis#Spindle Apparatus#Stress, Physiological'
b'Ribosome biogenesis regulates animal growth and is controlled by nutrient-responsive mTOR signaling. How ribosome biogenesis is regulated during the developmental growth of animals and how nutrient-responsive signaling adjusts ribosome biogenesis in this setting have remained insufficiently understood. We uncover PWP1 as a chromatin-associated regulator of developmental growth with a conserved role in RNA polymerase I (Pol I)-mediated rRNA transcription. We further observed that PWP1 epigenetically maintains the rDNA loci in a transcription-competent state. PWP1 responds to nutrition in Drosophila larvae via mTOR signaling through gene expression and phosphorylation, which controls the nucleolar localization of dPWP1. Our data further imply that dPWP1 acts synergistically with mTOR signaling to regulate the nucleolar localization of TFIIH, a known elongation factor of Pol I. Ribosome biogenesis is often deregulated in cancer, and we demonstrate that high PWP1 levels in human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma tumors are associated with poor prognosis. labels: #Animals#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleolus#Chromatin#DNA, Ribosomal#Drosophila#Food#Gene Expression Regulation#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Nuclear Proteins#Phosphorylation#Prognosis#RNA Polymerase I#RNA, Ribosomal#Ribosomes#Signal Transduction#Survival Rate#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transcription, Genetic'
b"BACKGROUND: Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) catabolises \xe2\x88\xbc85% of the administered dose of fluoropyrimidines. Functional DPYD gene variants cause reduced/abrogated DPD activity. DPYD variants analysis may help for defining individual patients' risk of fluoropyrimidine-related severe toxicity.METHODS: The TOSCA Italian randomised trial enrolled colon cancer patients for 3 or 6 months of either FOLFOX-4 or XELOX adjuvant chemotherapy. In an ancillary pharmacogenetic study, 10 DPYD variants (*2A rs3918290 G>A, *13 rs55886062 T>G, rs67376798 A>T, *4 rs1801158 G>A, *5 rs1801159 A>G, *6 rs1801160 G>A, *9A rs1801265 T>C, rs2297595 A>G, rs17376848 T>C, and rs75017182 C>G), were retrospectively tested for associations with \xe2\xa9\xbegrade 3 fluoropyrimidine-related adverse events (FAEs). An association analysis and a time-to-toxicity (TTT) analysis were planned. To adjust for multiple testing, the Benjamini and Hochberg's False Discovery Rate (FDR) procedure was used.RESULTS: FAEs occurred in 194 out of 508 assessable patients (38.2%). In the association analysis, FAEs occurred more frequently in *6 rs1801160 A allele carriers (FDR=0.0083). At multivariate TTT analysis, significant associations were found for *6 rs1801160 A allele carriers (FDR<0.0001), *2A rs3918290 A allele carriers (FDR<0.0001), and rs2297595 GG genotype carriers (FDR=0.0014). Neutropenia was the most common FAEs (28.5%). *6 rs1801160 (FDR<0.0001), and *2A rs3918290 (FDR=0.0004) variant alleles were significantly associated with time to neutropenia.CONCLUSIONS: This study adds evidence on the role of DPYD pharmacogenetics for safety of patients undergoing fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colonic Neoplasms#Dihydrouracil Dehydrogenase (NADP)#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Neutropenia#Pharmacogenetics#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate"
b'BACKGROUND: Tumour stroma has important roles in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis. We aimed to clarify the roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) and their target genes in CRC stroma in the development of liver metastasis.METHODS: Tumour stroma was isolated from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues of primary CRCs with or without liver metastasis by laser capture microdissection, and miRNA expression was analysed using TaqMan miRNA arrays.RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering classified 16 CRCs into two groups according to the existence of synchronous liver metastasis. Combinatory target prediction identified tenascin C as a predicted target of miR-198, one of the top 10 miRNAs downregulated in tumour stroma of CRCs with synchronous liver metastasis. Immunohistochemical analysis of tenascin C in 139 primary CRCs revealed that a high staining intensity was correlated with synchronous liver metastasis (P<0.001). Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed that the tenascin C staining intensity was an independent prognostic factor to predict postoperative overall survival (P=0.005; n=139) and liver metastasis-free survival (P=0.001; n=128).CONCLUSIONS: Alterations of miRNAs in CRC stroma appear to form a metastasis-permissive environment that can elevate tenascin C to promote liver metastasis. Tenascin C in primary CRC stroma has the potential to be a novel biomarker to predict postoperative prognosis. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#MicroRNAs#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Stromal Cells#Survival Rate#Tenascin#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Nitric oxide, a signaling molecule, inhibits mitochondrial respiration by binding with cytochrome c oxidase, resulting in elevated production of reactive superoxide species (reactive oxygen and nitrogen) in the mitochondria and increased susceptibility to cell death. Generation of mitochondrial superoxide species can be suppressed by natural compounds such as resveratrol, a dietary polyphenol found in the skin of red fruits. In various cancer cells, resveratrol shows anti-oxidant and cancer preventive properties. Since, the effect of resveratrol on reactive superoxide species-independent apoptosis in prostate cancer cells is not well illustrated; therefore, we investigated this phenomenon in TRAMP murine prostate cancer cells. To accomplish this, TRAMP cells were incubated with resveratrol, resveratrol\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89DETA-NONOate, DETA-NONOate (nitric oxide donor), resveratrol\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89L-NMMA, or L-NMMA (nitric oxide inhibitor) for 48\xe2\x80\x89h, and reactive superoxide species in the mitochondria and culture supernatant were measured. In addition, the mitochondrial membrane potential, cell viability, expression of apoptotic markers (Bax and Bcl2), \xce\xb3-H2A.x, p53, and caspase-3 was determined. We found that resveratrol suppressed reactive superoxide species such as reactive oxygen species in the mitochondria and nitric oxide in culture supernatant when compared to the DETA-NONOate treatment and disrupted the mitochondrial membrane potential. Resveratrol also reduced cell viability, altered the expression of apoptotic markers (Bax and Bcl2), and increased expression of \xce\xb3-H2A.x (indicative marker of DNA fragmentation) and p53 (a critical DNA damage response protein). However, there was no appreciable modulation of the caspase-3. Therefore, our data suggest that resveratrol induces superoxide species-independent apoptosis and may act as a therapeutic agent against prostate cancer. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Disease Models, Animal#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mice#Prostatic Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Stilbenes'
b"Microphysiological systems (MPS), which include engineered organoids (EOs), single organ/tissue chips (TCs), and multiple organs interconnected to create miniature in vitro models of human physiological systems, are rapidly becoming effective tools for drug development and the mechanistic understanding of tissue physiology and pathophysiology. The second MPS thematic issue of Experimental Biology and Medicine comprises 15 articles by scientists and engineers from the National Institutes of Health, the IQ Consortium, the Food and Drug Administration, and Environmental Protection Agency, an MPS company, and academia. Topics include the progress, challenges, and future of organs-on-chips, dissemination of TCs into Pharma, children's health protection, liver zonation, liver chips and their coupling to interconnected systems, gastrointestinal MPS, maturation of immature cardiomyocytes in a heart-on-a-chip, coculture of multiple cell types in a human skin construct, use of synthetic hydrogels to create EOs that form neural tissue models, the blood-brain barrier-on-a-chip, MPS models of coupled female reproductive organs, coupling MPS devices to create a body-on-a-chip, and the use of a microformulator to recapitulate endocrine circadian rhythms. While MPS hardware has been relatively stable since the last MPS thematic issue, there have been significant advances in cell sourcing, with increased reliance on human-induced pluripotent stem cells, and in characterization of the genetic and functional cell state in MPS bioreactors. There is growing appreciation of the need to minimize perfusate-to-cell-volume ratios and respect physiological scaling of coupled TCs. Questions asked by drug developers are followed by an analysis of the potential value, costs, and needs of Pharma. Of highest value and lowest switching costs may be the development of MPS disease models to aid in the discovery of disease mechanisms; novel compounds including probes, leads, and clinical candidates; and mechanism of action of drug candidates. Impact statement Microphysiological systems (MPS), which include engineered organoids and both individual and coupled organs-on-chips and tissue chips, are a rapidly growing topic of research that addresses the known limitations of conventional cellular monoculture on flat plastic - a well-perfected set of techniques that produces reliable, statistically significant results that may not adequately represent human biology and disease. As reviewed in this article and the others in this thematic issue, MPS research has made notable progress in the past three years in both cell sourcing and characterization. As the field matures, currently identified challenges are being addressed, and new ones are being recognized. Building upon investments by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, National Institutes of Health, Food and Drug Administration, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, and Environmental Protection Agency of more than $200 million since 2012 and sizable corporate spending, academic and commercial players in the MPS community are demonstrating their ability to meet the translational challenges required to apply MPS technologies to accelerate drug development and advance toxicology. labels: #Drug Evaluation, Preclinical#Humans#Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells#Lab-On-A-Chip Devices#Microchip Analytical Procedures#Microfluidics#Tissue Engineering"
b'OBJECTIVES: To examine intelligence, language, and academic achievement through 18 years of age among children with congenital cytomegalovirus infection identified through hospital-based newborn screening who were asymptomatic at birth compared with uninfected infants.METHODS: We used growth curve modeling to analyze trends in IQ (full-scale, verbal, and nonverbal intelligence), receptive and expressive vocabulary, and academic achievement in math and reading. Separate models were fit for each outcome, modeling the change in overall scores with increasing age for patients with normal hearing (n= 78) or with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) diagnosed by 2 years of age (n= 11) and controls (n= 40).RESULTS: Patients with SNHL had full-scale intelligence and receptive vocabulary scores that were 7.0 and 13.1 points lower, respectively, compared with controls, but no significant differences were noted in these scores among patients with normal hearing and controls. No significant differences were noted in scores for verbal and nonverbal intelligence, expressive vocabulary, and academic achievement in math and reading among patients with normal hearing or with SNHL and controls.CONCLUSIONS: Infants with asymptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus infection identified through newborn screening with normal hearing by age 2 years do not appear to have differences in IQ, vocabulary or academic achievement scores during childhood, or adolescence compared with uninfected children. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Asymptomatic Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Cytomegalovirus Infections#Educational Status#Female#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Intelligence#Intelligence Tests#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Neonatal Screening#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Children with intestinal failure (IF) on parenteral nutrition (PN) are at high risk for bacteremia, and delays in antibiotic administration have been associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We designed an emergency department (ED) quality improvement (QI) initiative to reduce time to administration of intravenous antibiotics in febrile children with IF on PN.METHODS: Our aim was to decrease the mean time for febrile children with IF on PN to receive intravenous antibiotics by 50% to<60 minutes over a 12-month period. Secondary outcome measures were ED, hospital, and ICU length of stay (LOS). Our process measure was the rate of ordering recommended antibiotics, and our balancing measure was the rate of hypoglycemia. Interventions included increasing provider knowledge of IF, streamlining order entry, providing individualized feedback, and standardizing the triage process. Results were analyzed by using statistical process control methodology and time series analysis.RESULTS: We identified 149 eligible ED patients, of which 62 (41.6%) had bacteremia. The mean time to antibiotics decreased after the onset of the QI initiative from 112 to 39 minutes, and the ED LOS decreased from 286 to 247 minutes, but the total length of hospital and ICU stays were unchanged. The rate of hypoglycemia was also unchanged.CONCLUSIONS: Our QI intervention for febrile children with IF on PN shortened the time to receive antibiotics. Larger studies are needed to demonstrate the impact on overall LOS and mortality. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacteremia#Central Venous Catheters#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Female#Fever#Humans#Intestinal Diseases#Length of Stay#Male#Short Bowel Syndrome#Time-to-Treatment'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Metastasis in lung cancer is a major cause of high mortality. Metastasis depends on the potential of cancer cells to migrate and invade. Here we demonstrated the anti-migration and invasion activities of the compound cycloartobiloxanthone from Artocarpus gomezianus Wall. ex Tr\xc3\xa9c. (Moraceae).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of the compound on viability of human lung cancer H460 cells was investigated by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MTT) assay. Migration and invasion assays were performed. Filopodia formation was determined by phalloidin-rhodamine staining. The hallmark signaling proteins in regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), migration, and integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1V, \xce\xb21 and \xce\xb23 were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Cycloartobiloxanthone at concentrations lower than 10 \xce\xbcM has no cytotoxic effects. Regarding cell motility, cycloartobiloxanthone at 5-10 \xce\xbcM and 1-10 \xce\xbcM exhibited anti-migration and anti-invasion activities, respectively. Filopodia were found to be significantly reduced in cycloartobiloxanthone-treated cells. These effects correlated with the results from western blot analysis showing that the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase on Try397 (p-FAK (Try397)), and cell division cycle 42 (CDC42) were significantly reduced. Cycloartobiloxanthone significantly suppressed migratory integrins including integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1V, and \xce\xb23, while had no significant effect on integrin \xce\xb21. Besides, the compound suppressed epithelial to mesenchymal transition in lung cancer H460 cells indicated by the change in cell morphology form fibroblast-like to epithelial morphology with up-regulation of E-cadherin.CONCLUSION: Cycloartobiloxanthone possesses anti-migration and anti-invasion properties by suppressing several migratory-regulated mechanisms including suppressing migratory FAK and CDC42 signal, reduced filopodia of migrating cells, decreasing integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1v and \xce\xb23, and inhibiting EMT. Our findings demonstrated the potentials of cycloartobiloxanthone for further studies and developments. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Flavonoids#Focal Adhesion Kinase 1#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Metastasis#Phosphorylation'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic cancer is a disease with very poor prognosis, and none of currently available pharmacotherapies have proven to be efficient in this indication. The aim of this study was to analyze the expression of fatty acid synthase (FASN) gene as a potential therapeutic target in proliferating human pancreatic cancer cells (PANC-1), and verify if orlistat, originally developed as an anti-obesity drug, inhibits PANC-1 proliferation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of orlistat on gene expression, lipogenesis, proliferation and apoptosis was studied in PANC-1 cell culture.RESULTS: Expression of FASN increased during proliferation of PANC-1. Inhibition of FASN by orlistat resulted in a significant reduction of PANC-1 proliferation and enhanced apoptosis of these cells.CONCLUSION: This study showed, to our knowledge for the first time, that orlistat exhibits significant antitumor activity against PANC-1 cells. This implies that orlistat analogs with good oral bioavailability may find application in pharmacotherapy of pancreatic cancer. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Fatty Acid Synthase, Type I#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lactones#Lipogenesis#Pancreatic Neoplasms'
b"BACKGROUND: Pyrazole derivatives have been reported to have potent antimicrobial and anticancer activity. We recently synthesized and determined the effects of analogs, benzamidoxime derivatives, on mammalian cells and discovered that benzamidoximes had an antiproliferative effect. Here we synthesized and determined the anticancer effects of hydrazonopyrazole derivatives on a mammalian cancer cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We synthesized 12 hydrazonopyrazole derivatives with several constant alkyl chain length or branched chains at the side chain to investigate their anticancer cell activity, using the human myelogenous leukemia cell line HL-60RG.RESULTS: Among all hydrazonopyrazole derivatives we synthesized, the hydrazonopyrazole derivative with a branched chain at the side chain rather than a constant alkyl chain significantly inhibited cell viability. The strongest hydrazonopyrazole derivative, 5-amino-4-cyanopyrazole-1-formaldehydehydrazono-3'-pentanal, tended to damage cells dose-dependently. This cell growth attenuation was a result of apoptosis, activating caspase-3 and fragmented DNA.CONCLUSION: Hydrazonopyrazole derivatives induced apoptosis of HL-60RG leukemia cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspase 3#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#DNA Fragmentation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia#Pyrazoles#Structure-Activity Relationship"
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: This study investigated the co-delivery of plasmid DNA and antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide (AS ODN) into carcinoma cells by cholic acid-modified polyethylenimine (PEI-CA).MATERIALS AND METHODS: PEI-CA/plasmid DNA and AS ODN complexes were formulated and evaluated for delivery of plasmid DNA and AS ODN in HeLa cells. The efficiency of co-delivery of plasmid DNA and AS ODN was evaluated by cell growth inhibition using p53 and bcl-2 AS ODN.RESULTS: AS ODN intracellular delivery and green fluorescent protein expression upon cellular transfection were greater than in cells treated with uncomplexed nucleic acids. Treatment of the cells with PEI-CA/p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN complexes resulted in cell growth inhibition that was greater than that of either PEI-CA/p53 plasmid DNA complexes or PEI-CA/bcl-2 AS ODN complexes alone.CONCLUSION: The co-delivery of p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN in PEI-CA complexes enhanced therapeutic activities of both p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN. labels: #Carcinoma#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Genetic Therapy#Genetic Vectors#Green Fluorescent Proteins#HeLa Cells#Humans#Oligodeoxyribonucleotides, Antisense#Plasmids#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'BACKGROUND: Studies have revealed that cancer might be treated with cannabinoids since they can influence cancer cell survival. These findings suggest an alternative treatment option to chemo- and radiotherapy, that are associated with numerous adverse side-effects for the patients.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Viability staining was conducted on lung cancer, testicular cancer and neuroblastoma cells treated with different concentrations of the synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 and the percentage of dead cells was compared. Activity of apoptosis-related enzymes was investigated by the presence of DNA ladder in gel electrophoresis.RESULTS: Treatment with different WIN 55,212-2 concentrations led to a significant dose-dependent reduction of cell viability. A DNA ladder was observed after WIN 55,212-2 treatment of testicular cancer and lung cancer cells.CONCLUSION: The application of WIN 55,212-2 was found to trigger cell death in the investigated cell lines. The decline in lung cancer and testicular cancer cell viability seems to have been caused by apoptosis. These findings may contribute to development of alternative cancer therapy strategies. labels: #A549 Cells#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzoxazines#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#DNA Fragmentation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Morpholines#Naphthalenes#Neuroblastoma#Testicular Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: Feasibility and efficacy of boric acid (BA)-mediated boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) was first demonstrated by eliminating hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a rat model. Furthermore, selective uptake of BA by liver tumor cells was shown in a rabbit model. To gain further insight, this study aimed to investigate the mechanisms of transportation and selective uptake of BA in HepG2 liver tumor cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Transportation of BA in HepG2 cells was analyzed by time-course assays and by analyzing the rate of diffusion versus the concentration of BA. The effect of different tumor conditions on BA uptake was studied by treating HepG2 cells with 25 \xce\xbcg10B/ml BA under different concentrations of glucose, at different pH and in the presence of water-soluble cholesterol.RESULTS: HepG2 cells mainly uptake BA by simple diffusion. Cell membrane permeability may also contribute to tumor-specific uptake of BA.CONCLUSION: The selective uptake of BA was achieved primarily by diffusion, while other factors, such as low pH and increased membrane fluidity, which are hallmarks of HCC, might further enhance BA uptake. labels: #Boric Acids#Boron Neutron Capture Therapy#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cell Membrane#Cholesterol#Glucose#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Liver Neoplasms#Spectrophotometry, Atomic#Tumor Microenvironment'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The oxazaphosphorines, ifosfamide and cyclophosphamide, represent a class of alkylating agents. The aim of the present in vitro study was to compare antileukemic activity of 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide (4-OOH-IF) and 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-OOH-CP).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed on MOLT-4 and ML-1 cells. The research was conducted using flow cytometry fluorescein diacetate/propidium iodide (PI), fluorescein-conjugated annexin V/PI, CaspGLOW Red Active Caspase-8 and -9, CellEvent\xe2\x84\xa2 Caspase-3/7 Green assays, and tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester test.RESULTS: 4-OOH-IF and 4-OOH-CP distinctly reduced cell viability and triggered apoptosis and necrosis, causing changes in intracellular esterase activity, plasma membrane structure and integrity, caspase activation, and mitochondrial membrane potential. The oxazaphosphorines were responsible for the different antileukemic activities. 4-Hydroperoxyifosfamide appeared to be less cytotoxic against the leukemia cells than 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide. MOLT-4 cells were more sensitive to the action of the oxazaphosphorines than ML-1 cells.CONCLUSION: The findings provide a new insight on the mechanisms of cytotoxic action of 4-OOH-IF and 4-OOH-CP on the human acute lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemia cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspases#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Membrane#Cell Survival#Cyclophosphamide#Esterases#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Ifosfamide#Leukemia#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Epidoxorubicin is an anthracycline agent. The present study was undertaken to compare the antileukemic potential of epidoxorubicin and its two formamidine analogs containing either a morpholine moiety (EPIFmor) or a hexamethyleneimine moiety (EPIFhex) in the amidine group.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed in vitro on MOLT-4 cells using spectrophotometry, Coulter electrical impedance, flow cytometry, and light microscopy methods.RESULTS: The leukemia cell responses to the action of the anthracyclines were manifested in their different viability, count and volume, degree of apoptosis and necrosis, activity of caspases -8, -9, and -3/7, mitochondrial membrane potential, and in the cell-cycle distribution. In general, epidoxorubicin appeared to be the most active, and EPIFmor was more active than EPIFhex against MOLT-4 cells.CONCLUSION: The structural modifications of epidoxorubicin in the amidine group were responsible for the varied action of its formamidine analogs on human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. labels: #Amidines#Anthracyclines#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspases#Cell Cycle#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Epirubicin#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Membrane Potentials#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: To search for new antileukemic agents, the chemical structure of phenytoin was modified. A possible cytotoxic activity of three bromoalkyl phenytoin analogs, methyl 2-(1-(3-bromopropyl)-2,4-dioxo-5,5-diphenylimidazolidin-3-yl) propanoate (PH2), 1-(3-bromopropyl)-3-methyl-5,5-diphenylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (PH3) and 1-(4-bromobutyl)-3-methyl-5,5-diphenylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (PH4) on regulated cell death, the cell cycle and cell ultrastructure was assessed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed in vitro on HL-60 and U937 cells, using flow cytometry and electron microscopy methods.RESULTS: Application of PH2, PH3, and PH4 resulted in cell surface exposure of phosphatidylserine and plasma membrane impairment, caspase-8, -9, and -3/7 activation, dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, DNA breakage, cell-cycle disturbance and cell ultrastructural changes. In general, PH3 appeared to be the most active against the leukemia cells, and all bromoalkyl hydantoins, PH2-PH4, were more active in HL-60 cells than in U937 cells.CONCLUSION: The antileukemic activity of the bromoalkyl phenytoin analogs depended on the combination of N-hydantoin substituents and the human cell line used. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Caspases#Cell Cycle#Cell Membrane#DNA Breaks#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Molecular Structure#Phenytoin#U937 Cells'
b'Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest malignancies characterized by strong resistance to almost all chemotherapeutic agents and radiotherapy. In this study, we aimed to investigate the anticancer effect, enzymatic antioxidant activity [superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx)] and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) of synthesized benzothiazole compounds against adenocarcinoma cancer cells (PANC-1). 2-((1S,2S)-2-((E)-4-nitrostyryl)cyclopent-3-en-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazole and 2-((1S,2S)-2-((E)-4-fluorostyryl) cyclopent-3-en-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazole containing 2-substituted benzothiazole group were synthesized in two steps. PANC-1 cells were treated with different concentrations of benzothiazole compounds (5, 25, 50. 75 and 100 \xce\xbcM) for 48 h and their cytotoxicity effects were determined by the MTT assay. To determine whether these compounds induced apoptosis, PANC-1 cells were treated with increasing concentrations of the synthetic products. Our study showed that the synthesized compounds have antiproliferative effects against PANC-1 cells and reduced cell viability. These compounds induced apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells and at the same time reduced the activity of SOD and GPx and reduced TAC. On the basis of these findings, these synthesized benzothiazole compounds may be considered as a potential therapeutic drug against human PANC-1 cancer cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Antioxidants#Benzothiazoles#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Glutathione Peroxidase#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Molecular Structure#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Structure-Activity Relationship#Superoxide Dismutase'
b'Pipoxolan is frequently prescribed as a smooth muscle relaxant. Pipoxolan has also been shown to have anticancer activity. Our study investigated whether pipoxolan induced apoptosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Cell cytotoxicity was evaluated by the MTT assay. Cell apoptosis and cell-cycle distribution were measured by annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) double staining and flow cytometry, respectively. Apoptotic-related proteins were assessed by western blotting. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) were measured with fluorescent probes. Following exposure of TW206 OSCC cells to pipoxolan, a time-dependently decrease in MMP and an increase in ROS were observed. However, these effects were significantly abrogated by the free radical scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Since high levels of ROS were produced early in the treatment, intracellular ROS seemed to play a key role in pipoxolan-induced apoptosis. In HSC-3 OSCC cells, our results demonstrated that pipoxolan treatment caused a time-dependent increase of protein expression of active caspase-3 and -9, cytosolic cytochrome c, cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, and B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2)-like protein 4 (BAX). However, expression of BCL2 itself was reduced. Clearly, such an increase in BAX/BCL2 ratio would be associated with apoptosis. In addition, pipoxolan markedly suppressed the protein expression of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K) and phosphorylation of protein kinase B (AKT). These data suggest that pipoxolan acts against HSC-3 in vitro via intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathways, and inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Dioxolanes#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Matrix Metalloproteinases#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mouth Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Signal Transduction'
b'AIM: Cisplatin plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or S-1 is a standard therapy for gastric cancer (GC). However, cisplatin is emetic and potentially nephrotoxic. Oxaliplatin may be less toxic, but few basic data are available for this setting. Here, we evaluated oxaliplatin for GC, by testing surgical specimens.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated effects of oxaliplatin and 5-FU, alone and in combination, on surgical specimens from 11 patients with GC, using collagen gel droplet embedded culture drug tests.RESULTS: Oxaliplatin was less efficacious than 5-FU, and its synergistic effect was less in tumors highly sensitive to 5-FU than in those with low sensitivity. Tumor differentiation and drug sensitivity were not correlated.CONCLUSION: Although oxaliplatin monotherapy had little effect on GC, we saw a limited synergistic effect of oxaliplatin with 5-FU in 5-FU-sensitive patients. Collagen gel droplet embedded culture drug tests may predict this synergistic effect, and help select candidates for this or other regimens. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Cell Culture Techniques#Cisplatin#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Drug Synergism#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Male#Middle Aged#Stomach Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Lomefloxacin (LFX) is a widely used fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agent that plays an important role in the treatment of human and animal infections; however, it has been reported to cause phototoxicity. In this study, we investigated the induction of apoptosis due to ultraviolet A (UVA) light in the presence and absence of LFX in HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells. HL-60 cells were exposed to UVA at an intensity of 1.1 mW/cm2for 20 min in the presence and absence of LFX, and the induction of apoptosis was examined by analyzing cell morphology, DNA fragmentation, and caspase-3 activity. Cells treated with 100 \xce\xbcM LFX and UVA clearly showed membrane blebbing and cell shrinkage. The proportion of apoptotic cells was significantly higher in cells treated with both UVA and LFX than in those treated with UVA or LFX alone. In addition, DNA ladder formation and caspase-3 activation were observed in cells treated with both UVA and LFX. A significant reduction in the number of UVA-induced apoptotic cells and caspase-3 activation was observed when histidine was present, which suggested that photodynamically-generated singlet oxygen is an important mediator of apoptosis. These results indicate that the combination of UVA and LFX induces apoptosis in HL-60 cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspase 3#Cell Survival#Combined Modality Therapy#DNA Fragmentation#Fluoroquinolones#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Photochemotherapy#Ultraviolet Rays#Ultraviolet Therapy'
b'BACKGROUND: Lactoperoxidase (LPO) is an antimicrobial protein secreted from mammary, salivary and other mucosal glands. It is an important member of heme peroxidase enzymes and the primary peroxidase enzyme present in breast tissues. In addition to the antimicrobial properties, LPO has been shown to be associated with breast cancer etiology. Heterocyclic amines, an important class of environmental and dietary carcinogens, have been increasingly associated with breast cancer etiology. Heterocyclic amines undergo activation in breast tissue as a result of oxidation by LPO. The current study includes three important heterocyclic amines, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and 2-amino-1-methy-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]-pyridine (PhIP), that have carcinogenic activity.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The structural binding characterization of IQ, MeIQx and PhIP with LPO was done using in silico approaches. Their binding pattern and interactions with LPO amino acid residues were analyzed.RESULTS: The three compounds bound in the distal heme cavity of LPO without replacing the important water molecule required for oxidation of substrate compounds. PhIP displayed lesser binding affinity for LPO in comparison to IQ and MeIQx. The binding mode of heterocyclic amines in distal heme cavity of LPO resembled to that of substrate binding pattern.CONCLUSION: The three heterocyclic amines are suggested to act as LPO substrate. The undisturbed water molecule present in distal heme cavity of the LPO is expected to facilitate the oxidation and activation of the three heterocyclic amines. These activated compounds may potentially bind with DNA in breast tissues forming DNA adducts and may subsequently lead to breast cancer initiation. labels: #Amines#Binding Sites#Breast Neoplasms#Carcinogens#Female#Humans#Lactoperoxidase#Models, Molecular#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Protein Binding#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The aim of this retrospective study was to clarify the effectiveness of chemotherapy with gemcitabine combined with low-dose 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin (GFP) for advanced biliary carcinoma after hepatectomy.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two patients had biliary carcinoma with lymph node metastasis, intrahepatic metastasis or positive surgical margins, including intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (IHC, n=25), hilar cholangiocarcinoma (HC, n=14), and gallbladder cancer (GBC, n=23). Twenty-eight patients (IHC; n=9, HC; n=8, GBC; n=11) received adjuvant GFP chemotherapy.RESULTS: We found no significant difference in clinicopathological factors in patients treated with or without adjuvant GFP chemotherapy. Overall, survival in the adjuvant GFP group was significantly better than that in the non-adjuvant GFP group (3-year survival: 61.9% vs. 8.8%, p<0.001), as was relapse-free survival.CONCLUSION: Adjuvant GFP chemotherapy after hepatectomy may be a promising option for improving surgical outcomes in patients with advanced biliary carcinoma. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Cholangiocarcinoma#Cisplatin#Deoxycytidine#Female#Fluorouracil#Gallbladder Neoplasms#Hepatectomy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Despite an expected prognostic disadvantage for upper tract versus lower tract metastatic urothelial carcinomas (UTUC/LTUC), only few studies have been conducted to elucidate potential differences in chemotherapy treatment.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A post-hoc subgroup analysis of a non-interventional study investigating vinflunine after failure of a platinum-based chemotherapy in metastatic/locally advanced UC patients was performed.RESULTS: A total of 18 and 59 out of 77 patients had UTUC and LTUC, respectively. The effectiveness of vinflunine treatment was comparable with an overall response rate of 22.2% and 23.7% respectively and a median progression-free survival of 2.76 months in both groups. Median overall survival was 5.0 months in UTUC compared to 8.2 months in the LTUC group (p=0.478). The safety profile was in accordance with previous vinflunine experiences, with a comparable frequency of adverse events in both groups.CONCLUSION: Vinflunine can be applied in the 2nd line for UC regardless of the primary tumor localization. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urologic Neoplasms#Vinblastine'
b'AIM: We investigated bladder urothelial carcinoma with peritoneal involvement.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Inclusion criteria were: pathology-confirmed urothelial carcinoma; peritoneal spread identified on computed tomographic (CT) scans performed initially or after either cystectomy or concomitant chemoradiotherapy (CCRT), and absence of visceral metastases; and chemotherapy administered after peritoneal spread was diagnosed.RESULTS: Forty-seven cases included initial modes of therapy with chemotherapy in 24 patients (51%), cystectomy in 17 (36%), and CCRT in six (13%), only given as a result of under-staging. After local therapy, these patients received a continuous maintenance chemotherapy regimen of 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, cisplatin, and gemcitabine. The overall response rate was 85%, and the side-effects were mild and tolerated. The median survival time was 28 months. The survival time of cases initially treated only with chemotherapy was not statistically different to that of those with local disease.CONCLUSION: Bladder urothelial carcinomas with peritoneal involvement can benefit from continuous maintenance chemotherapy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Cystectomy#Deoxycytidine#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Leucovorin#Maintenance Chemotherapy#Male#Middle Aged#Peritoneal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: Heavily treated patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have few treatment options, while irinotecan and bevacizumab have proven synergistic action in preclinical studies.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 49 patients with heavily treated NSCLC were enrolled from 2011-2014 and treated with irinotecan and bevacizumab. Treatment response along with mutational status of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP1) and EGFR expression were evaluated. Progression-free (PFS) and overall (OS) survival were monitored.RESULTS: Median follow-up was 13.2 months. Twenty-three patients had received three or more prior therapy lines. Overall response rate was 32% [95% confidence interval (CI)=22%-39%] and 26% of patients achieved stable disease. Median PFS was 4.4 (95% CI=2.8-8.3) months and median OS 18.0 (95% CI=16.2-30.7) months. Nine patients harboring EGFR mutations had a long-lasting partial response. A shorter OS was found in patients with a higher TIMP1 expression (p=0.006).CONCLUSION: Irinotecan combined with bevacizumab had favorable antitumor activity in heavily pretreated patients with NSCLC. These results suggest this is a reasonable strategy, particularly for patients with low TIMP1 expression. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bevacizumab#Camptothecin#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Survival Analysis#Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy demonstrated a survival benefit versus cystectomy alone in muscle-invasive urothelial bladder cancer. Despite this advantage, preoperative chemotherapy is not widely employed. When patients are unfit for cisplatin-based regimen, they are often candidates for immediate surgery. In our study, patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The principal objective was the rate of complete pathological response (pCR). Secondary end-points were disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS) and toxicity.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients (n=72) with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-1, clinical stage cT3-4, and/or N+ muscle-invasive bladder cancer were enrolled. The chemotherapy regimen was established according to the cisplatin feasibility. Thirty patients were treated with cisplatin/gemcitabine (Gem) and 42 with carboplatin/Gem.RESULTS: The rate of pCR was 29.2%, 36% with cisplatin-based treatment and 23.8% with carboplatin (p=0.3574). DFS and OS were longer in pCR patients, while no difference was reported between cisplatin/Gem and Carboplatin/Gem groups.CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the prognostic value of pCR in neoadjuvant chemotherapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer. When the patients are not fit for cisplatin, a carboplatin/Gem regimen represents a valid option because of comparable long-term outcome. When cisplatin is not feasible, the exclusion of a preoperative treatment is not justified. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carboplatin#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Cisplatin#Cystectomy#Deoxycytidine#Disease-Free Survival#Feasibility Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Prospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Readministration of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) antibody for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) after disease progression remains to be determined.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Readministration of anti-EGFR antibody in mCRC patients previously refractory to anti-EGFR antibody was prospectively observed.RESULTS: A total of thirteen patients with a median age of 60-years old and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 or 1, were enrolled. The median number of previous chemotherapies was 3 (range 2-5). Prior anti-EGFR antibody in combination with cytotoxic drugs was administered in 12 patients. Anti-EGFR antibody readministration regimens were cetuximab/panitumumab plus capecitabine/S-1 (seven patients), panitumumab plus FOLFOX (three patients), cetuximab plus irinotecan (two patients), and panitumumab monotherapy (one patient). Seven patients showed stable disease following readministration and six patients showed progressive disease. The median overall survival (OS) following readministration was 228 days and the median PFS was 102 days. Patients with intervals longer than 90 days between anti-EGFR therapies exhibited more favorable survival than those with intervals shorter than 90 days. Switching of anti-EGFR antibody between treatments was observed to contribute survival.CONCLUSION: Anti-EGFR antibody readministration could show a modest survival benefit in mCRC patients, with the length of therapy interval and switching of antibody being important contributory factors. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Camptothecin#Capecitabine#Cetuximab#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Leucovorin#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Organoplatinum Compounds#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Retreatment#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Erlotinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR); it is used in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We focused on the role of serum concentration of erlotinib and its association with outcome and toxicity in patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring the wild-type EGFR gene or squamous histology.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Clinical data of 122 patients were analyzed. Serum samples were collected within four weeks after the initiation of treatment.RESULTS: There was no significant association of erlotinib concentration with PFS nor OS (p=0.352 and p=0.6393). Significant associations of erlotinib concentration with grade of skin rash and diarrhoea (p<0.0001 and p<0.0001) were found. Skin rash and diarrhoea were significantly associated with PFS (p=0.0338 and p=0.0001) and OS (p=0.0064 and p=0.0353).CONCLUSION: Erlotinib concentration was not associated with outcome. Erlotinib concentration was associated with occurrence and severity of skin rash and diarrhoea; the outcome was associated with erlotinib toxicity. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Diarrhea#Disease-Free Survival#Erlotinib Hydrochloride#Exanthema#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Neoplasm Staging#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'Several second-generation inhibitors of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) have demonstrated potent activity in ALK rearrangement-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Two of these agents, ceritinib, and alectinib, recently received approval for the treatment of ALK-rearranged NSCLC in Japan. The efficacy of treatment with a second-generation ALK inhibitor after failure with a different second-generation ALK inhibitor remains unclear. We present a series of eight patients with ALK-rearranged NSCLC treated with alectinib who experienced disease progression after ceritinib. Both crizotinib and ceritinib were administered to six patients, with four (29%) patients receiving crizotinib followed by ceritinib. Among the eight study patients, two (25%) had partial response, one (12%) stable disease, and five (63%) had progressive disease. The median progression-free survival was 3.6 months (95% confidence interval=0-7.1 months). The results of this study suggest that the second-generation ALK inhibitor alectinib has limited efficacy after initial treatment with the second-generation ALK inhibitor ceritinib. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carbazoles#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Sulfones#Survival Analysis#Treatment Failure#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Taxanes are among the key drugs for breast cancer treatment. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of upfront weekly nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (Nab-PTX; 100 mg/m2) for human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stage II to IV breast cancer received 12 cycles of weekly 100 mg/m2Nab-PTX as first-line treatment. Preoperative chemotherapy with anthracyclines after Nab-PTX was recommended.RESULTS: From 2012 to 2014, we enrolled 66 patients. The overall response rate after Nab-PTX was 59.1% [95% confidence interval(CI)=47.2% to 71.0%), 63.6% in those with hormone receptor-positive tumors, and 36.4% in those with triple-negative tumors. The pathological complete response rate at surgery was 15% (95% CI=6.1% to 24.4%). Toxicity analysis showed grade 2 peripheral neuropathy in 38 patients (57.6%), grade 2/3 leukocytopenia in 29 (43.9%) and grade 2/3 liver dysfunction in five (7.5%).CONCLUSION: Weekly neoadjuvant Nab-PTX at 100 mg/m2led to good response rates (59.1%) and was well tolerated. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel#Anthracyclines#Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasm Staging#Receptor, ErbB-2#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of colorectal liver metastases (CRLMs) is a method developed in the last 15 years. It provides an acceptable control of the malignant process with lower risks compared to surgical resection. The aim of the study was to assess immediate and long-term results, including recurrence, survival, morbidity/mortality rates after RFA.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two cases with CRLMs were treated by RFA during open surgery (89 lesions). Patients were followed-up for a minimum of 36 months, with assessment of recurrences and survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years, using computed tomography (CT) scan, contrast-enhanced ultrasound and tumor markers (carcinoembryonoc antigen, carbohydrate antigen-19.9).RESULTS: Local relapses, recurrences in other areas and survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years suggest acceptable values comparative with liver resections in the first 2-3 years and demonstrated long-term limitations, despite the use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Major postoperative negative prognostic factors are tumor multicentricity and tumor's dimensions over 5 cm.CONCLUSION: RFA of CRLMs is a safe procedure with low rates of local relapses and recurrences, as well as acceptable survival rates, in the first 24-36 months post-procedure. It is recommended for patients with no indications for liver resection or having major resection risks. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Catheter Ablation#Colorectal Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: Many studies have shown that depression increases mortality risk. We aimed to investigate the duration of time over which depression is associated with increased risk of mortality, secular trends in the association between depression and mortality, and sex differences in the association between depression and mortality.METHODS: We conducted a cohort study of 3410 adults enrolled in 3 representative samples of a county in Atlantic Canada in 1952 (n= 1003), 1970 (n= 1203) or 1992 (n= 1402) (the Stirling County Study). Depression was measured using a diagnostic algorithm based on the presence of depressed mood and associated symptoms, duration of more than 1 month, and substantial impairment. Vital status of participants through 2011 was determined using probabilistic linkages to the Canadian Mortality Database.RESULTS: Depression was associated with a heightened risk of mortality among men during the 3 time periods of the study, with hazard ratios (HRs) of 2.90 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.69-4.98) between 1952 and 1967, 1.97 (CI 1.34-2.89) between 1968 and 1990, and 1.52 (CI 1.09-2.13) between 1991 and 2011. Elevated risk of mortality was noted among women only between 1990 and 2011 (HR = 1.51; CI = 1.11-2.05).INTERPRETATION: The association between depression and mortality persists over long periods of time and has emerged among women in recent decades, despite contemporaneous improvements in the treatment of depression and reduction of stigma associated with depression. Further research is needed to better understand the mechanisms involved. labels: #Adult#Aged#Canada#Cause of Death#Depression#Depressive Disorder#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Incidence#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Population Surveillance#Proportional Hazards Models#Risk Assessment#Socioeconomic Factors'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Postvaccination syncope can cause injury. Drinking water prephlebotomy increases peripheral vascular tone, decreasing risk of blood-donation presyncope and syncope. This study evaluated whether drinking water prevaccination reduces postvaccination presyncope, a potential syncope precursor.METHODS: We conducted a randomized trial of subjects aged 11 to 21 years receiving \xe2\x89\xa51 intramuscular vaccine in primary care clinics. Intervention subjects were encouraged to drink 500 mL of water, with vaccination recommended 10 to 60 minutes later. Control subjects received usual care. Presyncope symptoms were assessed with a 12-item survey during the 20-minutes postvaccination. Symptoms were classified with a primary cutoff sensitive for presyncope, and a secondary, more restrictive cutoff requiring greater symptoms. Results were adjusted for clustering by recruitment center.RESULTS: There were 906 subjects randomly assigned to the control group and 901 subjects randomly assigned to the intervention group. None had syncope. Presyncope occurred in 36.2% of subjects by using the primary definition, and in 8.0% of subjects by using the restrictive definition. There were no significant differences in presyncope by intervention group for the primary (1-sided test,P= .24) or restrictive outcome (1-sided test,P= .17). Among intervention subjects vaccinated within 10 to 60 minutes after drinking all 500 mL of water (n= 519), no reduction in presyncope was observed for the primary or restrictive outcome (1-sided tests,P= .13,P= .17). In multivariable regression analysis, presyncope was associated with younger age, history of passing out or nearly passing out after a shot or blood draw, prevaccination anxiety, receiving>1 injected vaccine, and greater postvaccination pain.CONCLUSIONS: Drinking water before vaccination did not prevent postvaccination presyncope. Predictors of postvaccination presyncope suggest opportunities for presyncope and syncope prevention interventions. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Drinking#Drinking Water#Female#Humans#Male#Syncope#Vaccination'
b'INTRODUCTION: Epithelial-mesenchymal-transition (EMT) has been previously identified as a contributor to prostate cancer progression to metastasis and therapeutic resistance to antiandrogens and radiotherapy. In this study we conducted a retrospective analysis to investigate the significance of radiation-induced EMT and consequential changes to the tumor microenvironment in biochemical recurrence and response to radiotherapy in prostate cancer patients.METHODS: Expression profiling and localization for EMT effectors, E-Cadherin, N-Cadherin, \xce\xb2-catenin and Vimentin was assessed in human prostate tumor specimens pre- and post-radiotherapy and correlated with biochemical recurrence. In addition, immunoreactivity of the DNA repair enzyme, polymerase (PARP-1) and the cytoskeletal-remodeling regulator, cofilin was evaluated in prostate tumor specimens pre- and post-radiotherapy and correlated with pre-treatment prostate-specific antigen levels (PSA).RESULTS: Our findings identified that characteristic changes associated with the EMT phenotype and its reversal to mesenchymal-epithelial-transition (MET) within the tumor microenvironment correlate with biochemical recurrence and resistance to radiotherapy among prostate cancer patients. Moreover, elevated PARP-1 expression among the tumor cells undergoing EMT implicates that DNA repair mechanisms may potentially reverse the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy-induced DNA breaks.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that EMT programming effectors, integrated with the actin cytoskeleton regulator cofilin and mesenchymal PARP-1 expression profile provide a signature of potential predictive significance of therapeutic response to radiotherapy in a subset of prostate cancer patients. labels: #Aged#Cohort Studies#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Poly (ADP-Ribose) Polymerase-1#Predictive Value of Tests#Prostatic Neoplasms#Radiation Tolerance#Retrospective Studies'
b'PURPOSE: To determine whether there exists any significant difference in normal tissue toxicity between intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or proton therapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 134 study patients (n=49 treated with proton therapy, n=85 with IMRT) treated in a randomized trial had a previously validated esophageal toxicity imaging biomarker, esophageal expansion, quantified during radiation therapy, as well as esophagitis grade (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0), on a weekly basis during treatment. Differences between the 2 modalities were statically analyzed using the imaging biomarker metric value (Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance), as well as the incidence and severity of esophagitis grade (\xcf\x872and Fisher exact tests, respectively). The dose-response of the imaging biomarker was also compared between modalities using esophageal equivalent uniform dose, as well as delivered dose to an isotropic esophageal subvolume.RESULTS: No statistically significant difference in the distribution of esophagitis grade, the incidence of grade \xe2\x89\xa53 esophagitis (15 and 11 patients treated with IMRT and proton therapy, respectively), or the esophageal expansion imaging biomarker between cohorts (P>.05) was found. The distribution of imaging biomarker metric values had similar distributions between treatment arms, despite a slightly higher dose volume in the proton arm (P>.05). Imaging biomarker dose-response was similar between modalities for dose quantified as esophageal equivalent uniform dose and delivered esophageal subvolume dose. Regardless of treatment modality, there was high variability in imaging biomarker response, as well as esophagitis grade, for similar esophageal doses between patients.CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in esophageal toxicity from either proton- or photon-based radiation therapy as quantified by esophagitis grade or the esophageal expansion imaging biomarker. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Analysis of Variance#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Chi-Square Distribution#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Esophagitis#Esophagus#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Photons#Proton Therapy#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Statistics, Nonparametric'
b'PURPOSE: To develop a Monte Carlo model for patient-specific dosimetry of32P microparticle localized internal radionuclide therapy for advanced pancreatic cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Spherical tumor geometries and a pancreatic phantom were modeled, as well as different 3-dimensional non-uniform clinical pancreatic geometries based on patient-specific ultrasound images. The dosimetry simulations modeled the dose distribution due to the energy spectrum of emitted beta particles.RESULTS: The average dose for small (3-cm diameter) and large (6-cm diameter) spherical tumors was 111\xc2\xa0Gy (for 7.6 MBq administered activity) and 128\xc2\xa0Gy (for 58 MBq), respectively. For the clinical 3-dimensional geometries, on the basis of patient data, the mean doses delivered to the tumor were calculated to be in the range 102 to 113\xc2\xa0Gy, with negligible dose to the pancreas for the smallest tumor volumes. The calculated dose distributions are highly non-uniform. For the largest tumor studied, the pancreas received approximately 6% of the tumor dose (5.7\xc2\xa0Gy). Importantly, we found that because the smallest tumor studied exhibited the most dynamic changes in volume in response to the treatment, the dose to tumor and pancreas is significantly underestimated if a static tumor volume is assumed.CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate the dosimetry of32P microparticle localized internal radionuclide therapy for pancreatic cancer and the possibility of developing personalized treatment strategies. The results also highlight the importance of considering the effects of non-uniform dose distributions and dynamic change of tumor mass during treatment on the dosimetry of the tumor and critical organs. labels: #Beta Particles#Humans#Monte Carlo Method#Pancreas#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Phosphorus Radioisotopes#Precision Medicine#Radiotherapy Dosage#Spheroids, Cellular#Tumor Burden#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Ultrasonography'
b'PURPOSE: To identify prognostic factors and patterns of local failure in patients with cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), after surgical resection in the absence of adjuvant radiation, for optimal definition of target volumes encompassing the majority of local recurrences.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A chart review was performed in patients who underwent resection for primary CCA (intrahepatic, hilar, and distal) between 1999 and 2014. Local failure was defined as recurrence in a theoretical reasonable postoperative radiation volume. This includes the cut surface of liver, biliary anastomosis, hilum, portal nodes, celiac nodes, peri-pancreatic nodes, gastro-hepatic nodes, and retroperitoneal nodes. Patients who received adjuvant radiation were excluded.RESULTS: A total of 189 patients underwent surgical resection for CCA, of whom 145 patients had sufficient follow-up. Median follow-up was 41.6\xc2\xa0months (95% confidence interval 35.4-48.7\xc2\xa0months). Of the 145 cases, 102 were intrahepatic and 43 were hilar/distal CCA. Adjuvant chemotherapy was given in 38 cases (26%), of which 20 (54%) were gemcitabine-based. Eighty-six patients (59%) had a documented recurrence, of whom 44 (51%) had a locoregional component. Among patients who had a recurrence, 23 (27%) had a recurrence at the biliary anastomosis and/or cut liver surface. Twenty-eight patients (32.6%) had a recurrence in the regional lymph nodes, most prevalent in the portal (16.3%) and retroperitoneal (17.4%) lymph nodes. Univariable analysis identified tumor size, any vascular invasion, presence of satellites, stage/nodal status, and receipt of chemotherapy as significant prognostic factors of overall recurrence among intrahepatic patients. Presence of satellites, and stage 3/Nx status remained statistically significant in multivariable modeling.CONCLUSIONS: The\xc2\xa0areas at highest risk for locoregional recurrence after surgical resection for primary CCA are the biliary anastomosis/cut liver surface, portal lymph nodes, and retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Although these results need to be validated, adjuvant radiation should possibly cover these areas to maximize locoregional control. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Cholangiocarcinoma#Confidence Intervals#Deoxycytidine#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors'
b'PURPOSE: To update the Diagnosis-Specific Graded Prognostic Assessment (DS-GPA) for a markedly heterogeneous patient population, patients with melanoma and brain metastases, using a larger, more current cohort, including molecular markers.METHODS: The original Melanoma-GPA is based on data from 483 patients whose conditions were diagnosed between 1985 and 2005. This is a multi-institutional retrospective database analysis of 823 melanoma patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases from January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2015. Multivariable analyses identified significant prognostic factors, which were weighted and included in the updated index (Melanoma-molGPA). Multiple Cox regression was used to select and weight prognostic factors in proportion to their hazard ratios to design the updated Melanoma-molGPA in which scores of 4.0 and 0.0 are associated with the best and worst prognoses, as with all of the diagnosis-specific GPA indices. Log-rank tests were used to compare adjacent classes.RESULTS: There were 5 significant prognostic factors for survival (age, Karnofsky performance status [KPS], extracranial metastases [ECM], number of brain metastases, and BRAF status), whereas only KPS and the number of brain metastases were significant in the original Melanoma-GPA. Median survival improved from 6.7 to 9.8\xc2\xa0months between the 2 treatment eras, and the median survival times for patients with Melanoma-molGPA of 0 to 1.0, 1.5 to 2.0, 2.5 to 3.0, and 3.5 to 4.0 were 4.9, 8.3, 15.8, and 34.1\xc2\xa0months (P<.0001 between each adjacent group).CONCLUSIONS: Survival and our ability to estimate survival in melanoma patients with brain metastases has improved significantly. The updated Melanoma-molGPA, a user-friendly tool to estimate survival, will facilitate clinical decision making regarding whether and which treatment is appropriate and will also be useful for stratification of future clinical\xc2\xa0trials. To further simplify use, a free online/smart phone app is available at brainmetgpa.com. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Brain Neoplasms#Clinical Decision-Making#Genetic Markers#Humans#Karnofsky Performance Status#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Regression Analysis'
b'PURPOSE: To\xc2\xa0investigate the relationship between patient and tumor characteristics and pain response in patients with metastatic bone disease, and construct and internally validate a clinical prediction model for pain response to guide individualized treatment decision making.MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 965 patients with painful bone metastases undergoing palliative radiation therapy at a tertiary referral center between 1999 and 2007 were identified. Pain scores were measured at 1, 2, and 3\xc2\xa0months after radiation therapy. Pain response was defined as at least a 2-point decrease on a pain score scale of 0-10, without increase in analgesics, or an analgesic decrease of at least 25% without an increase in pain score. Thirteen candidate predictors were identified from the literature and expert experience. After multiple imputation, final predictors were selected using stepwise regression and collapsed into a prediction model. Model performance was evaluated by calibration and discrimination and corrected for optimism.RESULTS: Overall 462 patients (47.9%) showed a response. Primary tumor site, performance status, and baseline pain score were predictive for pain response, with a corrected c-statistic of 0.63. The predicted response rates after radiation therapy increased from 37.5% for patients with the highest risk score to 79.8% for patients with the lowest risk score and were in good agreement with the observed response rates.CONCLUSIONS: A prediction score for pain response after palliative radiation therapy was developed. The model performance was moderate, showing that prediction of pain response is difficult. New biomarkers and predictors may lead to improved identification of the large group of patients who are unlikely to respond and who may benefit from other or innovative treatment options. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Analgesics#Bone Neoplasms#Breast Neoplasms#Cancer Pain#Decision Making#Female#Humans#Karnofsky Performance Status#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Theoretical#Pain Measurement#Palliative Care#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk#Spinal Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b'PURPOSE: To evaluate the effective dose and patterns of recurrence after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) for hepatic metastases that arise from colorectal cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A cohort of 70 patients with 103 colorectal liver metastases were treated with SBRT at a single institution. The prescribed doses were 45 to 60\xc2\xa0Gy in 3 to 4 fractions, but these were modified according to the tolerance of the adjacent normal tissue. To allow for dose comparisons, a biological equivalent dose was calculated.RESULTS: The median follow-up period was 34.2\xc2\xa0months (range, 5.3-121.8\xc2\xa0months). The 2-year overall survival and progression-free survival rates were 75% and 35%, respectively. In subgroups, the 2-year local control rates for biological equivalent dose \xe2\x89\xa480\xc2\xa0Gy (group 1), 100 to 112\xc2\xa0Gy (group 2), and \xe2\x89\xa5132\xc2\xa0Gy (group 3) were 52%, 83%, and 89%, respectively. Cox proportional hazards model revealed a significant difference between groups (hazard ratio 0.44, P=.03 for group 2; hazard ratio 0.17, P=.17 for group 3; P=.01 for total). The major pattern of failure was a new liver metastasis out of the SBRT field. There was no grade \xe2\x89\xa53 toxicity.CONCLUSIONS: Stereotactic body radiation therapy of liver metastases derived from colorectal cancer offers a locally effective treatment without significant complications. Longer local control can be expected if higher doses are used. Further studies will be needed to compare the efficacies of SBRT with those of surgical resection or radiofrequency ablation. labels: #Aged#Chemoembolization, Therapeutic#Colorectal Neoplasms#Dose Fractionation#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Organs at Risk#Proportional Hazards Models#Radiosurgery#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Relative Biological Effectiveness#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b'PURPOSE: A recent randomized controlled trial demonstrated that the addition of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to brachytherapy did not improve progression-free survival in select patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. We evaluated whether the addition of EBRT to brachytherapy improves prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) for intermediate- and high-risk disease using a large national database.METHODS AND MATERIALS: We identified 5836 patients in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare linked database with a diagnosis of National Comprehensive Cancer Network intermediate-risk (Gleason score 7, prostate-specific antigen 10-20\xc2\xa0ng/mL, or stage cT2b-T2c) or high-risk (Gleason score 8-10 or prostate-specific antigen>20\xc2\xa0ng/mL and stage\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa4cT3a) prostate cancer who had undergone brachytherapy, with or without EBRT and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Patients were diagnosed from 2004 through 2009. Intermediate-risk patients with Gleason score \xe2\x89\xa43+4 and 1 intermediate-risk factor were considered favorable and all others unfavorable. We used multivariable Fine-Gray competing risks regression to study PCSM while adjusting for sociodemographic and clinical factors and ADT\xc2\xa0use.RESULTS: Overall, 50.3% of intermediate- and high-risk patients who received brachytherapy and EBRT did not have significantly improved PCSM compared with that of the patients who received brachytherapy alone (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR] 1.46, 95% confidence interval [CI]0.69-3.11; P=.322; 5-year PCSM 2.4% vs 1.0%). This lack of benefit was seen among favorable intermediate-risk (AHR 2.66, 95% CI 0.93-7.62, P=.069; 5-year PCSM 1.3% vs 0.6%), unfavorable intermediate-risk (AHR 0.68, 95% CI 0.16-2.96, P=.612; 5-year PCSM 1.0% vs 1.2%), and high-risk (AHR 1.82, 95% CI 0.67-4.98, P=.242; 5-year PCSM 5.3% vs 2.1%) subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that certain patients with intermediate- or high-risk prostate cancer treated with brachytherapy might not benefit from the addition of EBRT. A randomized controlled trial of brachytherapy plus ADT with or without EBRT for unfavorable intermediate- and favorable high-risk organ-confined prostate cancer should be undertaken. labels: #Aged#Brachytherapy#Combined Modality Therapy#Databases, Factual#Humans#Male#Neoplasm Grading#Propensity Score#Prostatic Neoplasms#SEER Program'
b'PURPOSE: To\xc2\xa0investigate the associations between interim tumor responses on18F-fluorodeoxyglucose\xc2\xa0(18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and18F-fluorothymidine (18F-FLT) PET and patient outcomes, especially progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with FDG-PET/computed tomography stage I-III NSCLC were prescribed concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy (60\xc2\xa0Gy in 30 fractions). Scans were acquired at baseline (FDG-PET/computed tomography [FDGBL] for radiation therapy planning and FLT-PET [FLTBL]), week 2 (FDGwk2and FLTwk2), and week 4 (FDGwk4and FLTwk4) of chemoradiation therapy. Tumor responses were categorized as complete or partial responses or stable or progressive disease (SD, PD) using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer criteria. Associations between response, OS, and PFS were analyzed with univariate Cox regressions and plotted using Kaplan-Meier curves.RESULTS: Between 2009 and 2013, 60 patients were recruited. Thirty-seven (62%) were male, and the median age was 66\xc2\xa0years (range, 31-86\xc2\xa0years). Two-year OS and PFS were 0.51 and 0.26, respectively. Unexpectedly, SD on FLTwk2compared with complete response/partial response was associated with longer OS (hazard ratio [95% confidence interval] 2.01 [0.87-4.65], P=.082) and PFS (2.01 [0.92-4.36], P=.061). Weeks 2 and 4 FDG PET/CT were not significantly associated with survival. Study scans provided additional information to FDGBLin 21 patients (35%). Distant metastases detected in 3 patients on FLTBLand in 2 patients on FDG/FLTwk2changed treatment intent from curative to palliative. Locoregional progression during radiation therapy was observed in 5 (8%) patients, prompting larger radiation therapy fields.CONCLUSIONS: Stable uptake of18F-FLT at week 2 was paradoxically associated with longer OS and PFS. This suggests that suppression of tumor cell proliferation may protect against radiation-induced tumor cell killing. Baseline FLT, FLTwk2, and FDGwk2detected rapid distant and locoregional progression in 10 patients (17%), prompting changes in management. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carboplatin#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Proliferation#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Etoposide#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Radiopharmaceuticals#Survival Analysis#Thymidine'
b'Triple-negative breast cancer is a kind of breast cancer with poor prognosis and special biological behavior, which lacked endocrine therapy and targeted therapy. We investigate the effect of human APE1 (apurinic/apyrimidyl endonuclease 1), a rate-limiting enzyme of base excision repair, on the prognosis in triple-negative breast cancer and drug sensitivity of olaparib. The expression of APE1 was detected by immunohistochemistry in the triple-negative breast cancer tissues and its effect on survival of triple-negative breast cancer patients was followed. To find whether APE1 effect the drug sensitivity in triple-negative breast cancer cells, the APE1-knockout HCC1937 cell line (triple-negative breast cancer cell line) was established by CRISPR/Cas9 system. Then, we use the wild-type and knockout one to test the drug sensitivity of olaparib. The expression of APE1 in triple-negative breast cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in the adjacent tissues (85.6% vs 14.4%) and its expression was related to tumor size (p<0.05). We also found that it is an independent prognostic factor in patients with triple-negative breast cancer (overall survival, p = 0.01). In vitro assay, the half maximal inhibitory concentration of olaparib in HCC1937-APE1-KO was significantly increased (17.22 vs 91.85 \xce\xbcM) compared to the wild type. The growth curve showed that olaparib had a stronger lethality on HCC1937 compared to HCC1937- APE1-KO (p<0.05 on day 3). HCC1937 resulted in more mitotic G2/M arrest and increased apoptosis rate after treatment with 40 \xce\xbcM of olaparib, while HCC1937-APE1-KO did not change significantly. When HCC1937 was treated with different concentrations of olaparib, it was found that APE1 expression decreased more significantly at 15 \xce\xbcM of olaparib was. In HCC1937-APE1-KO, the expression of endogenous poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 was also less than that of HCC1937. These results suggested that the expression of APE1 was an important basis for the maintenance of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1, and the deletion of APE1 may be related to the resistance of olaparib. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#DNA-(Apurinic or Apyrimidinic Site) Lyase#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Flow Cytometry#Gene Knockout Techniques#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Middle Aged#Phthalazines#Piperazines#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#Tissue Array Analysis#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms'
b"Before the 2010 devastating earthquake and cholera outbreak, Haiti's public health laboratory systems were weak and services were limited. There was no national laboratory strategic plan and only minimal coordination across the laboratory network. Laboratory capacity was further weakened by the destruction of over 25 laboratories and testing sites at the departmental and peripheral levels and the loss of life among the laboratory health-care workers. However, since 2010, tremendous progress has been made in building stronger laboratory infrastructure and training a qualified public health laboratory workforce across the country, allowing for decentralization of access to quality-assured services. Major achievements include development and implementation of a national laboratory strategic plan with a formalized and strengthened laboratory network; introduction of automation of testing to ensure better quality of results and diversify the menu of tests to effectively respond to outbreaks; expansion of molecular testing for tuberculosis, human immunodeficiency virus, malaria, diarrheal and respiratory diseases; establishment of laboratory-based surveillance of epidemic-prone diseases; and improvement of the overall quality of testing. Nonetheless, the progress and gains made remain fragile and require the full ownership and continuous investment from the Haitian government to sustain these successes and achievements. labels: #Cholera#Clinical Laboratory Services#Disasters#Dysentery#Earthquakes#Epidemics#HIV Infections#Haiti#Humans#Laboratories#Malaria#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Public Health#Tuberculosis"
b'Consumption of drinking water from private vendors has increased considerably in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in recent decades. A major type of vendor is private kiosks, advertising reverse osmosis-treated water for sale by volume. To describe the scale and geographical distribution of private kiosks in metropolitan Port-au-Prince, an inventory of private kiosks was conducted from July to August 2013. Coordinates of kiosks were recorded with global positioning system units and a brief questionnaire was administered with the operator to document key kiosk characteristics. To assess the quality of water originating from private kiosks, water quality analyses were also conducted on a sample of those inventoried as well as from the major provider company sites. The parameters tested wereEscherichia coli, free chlorine residual, pH, turbidity, and total dissolved solids. More than 1,300 kiosks were inventoried, the majority of which were franchises of four large provider companies. Approximately half of kiosks reported opening within 12 months of the date of the inventory. The kiosk treatment chain and sales price was consistent among a majority of the kiosks. Of the 757 kiosks sampled for water quality, 90.9% of samples met World Health Organization (WHO) microbiological guideline at the point of sale for nondetectableE. coliin a 100-mL sample. Of the eight provider company sites tested, all samples met the WHO microbiological guideline. Because of the increasing role of the private sector in drinking water provision in Port-au-Prince and elsewhere in Haiti, this assessment was an important first step for government regulation of this sector. labels: #Chlorine#Commerce#Disasters#Drinking Water#Earthquakes#Escherichia coli#Haiti#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Private Sector#Water Quality'
b'Following the 2010 earthquake, Haiti was at heightened risk for vaccine-preventable diseases (VPDs) outbreaks due to the exacerbation of long-standing gaps in the vaccination program and subsequent risk of VPD importation from other countries. Therefore, partners supported the Haitian Ministry of Health and Population to improve vaccination services and VPD surveillance. During 2010-2016, three polio, measles, and rubella vaccination campaigns were implemented, achieving a coverage>90% among children and maintaining Haiti free of those VPDs. Furthermore, Haiti is on course to eliminate maternal and neonatal tetanus, with 70% of communes achieving tetanus vaccine two-dose coverage>80% among women of childbearing age. In addition, the vaccine cold chain storage capacity increased by 91% at the central level and 285% at the department level, enabling the introduction of three new vaccines (pentavalent, rotavirus, and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines) that could prevent an estimated 5,227 deaths annually. Haiti moved from the fourth worst performing country in the Americas in 2012 to the sixth best performing country in 2015 for adequate investigation of suspected measles/rubella cases. Sentinel surveillance sites for rotavirus diarrhea and meningococcal meningitis were established to estimate baseline rates of those diseases prior to vaccine introduction and to evaluate the impact of vaccination in the future. In conclusion, Haiti significantly improved vaccination services and VPD surveillance. However, high dependence on external funding and competing vaccination program priorities are potential threats to sustaining the improvements achieved thus far. Political commitment and favorable economic and legal environments are needed to maintain these gains. labels: #Drug Storage#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Humans#Immunization Programs#Measles#Measles Vaccine#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Pneumococcal Infections#Pneumococcal Vaccines#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus Vaccines#Rotavirus Infections#Rotavirus Vaccines#Rubella#Rubella Vaccine#Sentinel Surveillance#Tetanus#Tetanus Toxoid'
b'Monitoring retention of people living with HIV (PLHIV) in the HIV care and treatment cascade is essential to guide program strategy and evaluate progress toward globally-endorsed 90-90-90 targets (i.e., 90% of PLHIV diagnosed, 81% on sustained antiretroviral therapy (ART), and 73% virally suppressed). We describe national retention from diagnosis throughout the cascade for patients receiving HIV services in Haiti during 1985-2015, with a focus on those receiving HIV services during 2008-2015. Among the 266,256 newly diagnosed PLHIV during 1985-2015, 49% were linked-to-care, 30% started ART, and 18% were retained on ART by the time of database closure. Similarly, among the 192,187 newly diagnosed HIV-positive patients during 2008-2015, 50% were linked to care, 31% started ART, and 19% were retained on ART by the time of database closure. Most patients (90-92%) at all cascade steps were adults (\xe2\x89\xa5 15 years old), among whom the majority (60-61%) were female. During 2008-2015, outcomes varied significantly across 42 administrative districts (arrondissements) of residence; cumulative linkage-to-care ranged from 23% to 69%, cumulative ART initiation among care enrollees ranged from 2% to 80%, and cumulative ART retention among ART enrollees ranged from 30% to 88%. Compared with adults, children had lower cumulative incidence of ART initiation among care enrollees (64% versus 47%) and lower cumulative retention among ART enrollees (64% versus 50%). Cumulative linkage-to-care was low and should be prioritized for improvement. Variations in outcomes by arrondissement and between adults and children require further investigation and programmatic response. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anti-HIV Agents#Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active#CD4 Lymphocyte Count#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Management#Female#HIV Infections#Haiti#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Patient Compliance#Young Adult'
b"Emergencies can often directly impact health systems of an affected region or country, especially in resource-constrained areas. Health system recovery following an emergency is a complex and dynamic process. Health system recovery efforts have often been structured around the World Health Organization's health systems building blocks as demonstrated by the Post-Disaster Needs Assessment. Although this structure is valuable and well known, it can overlook the intricacies of public health systems. We retrospectively examine public health systems recovery, a subset of the larger health system, following the 2010 Haiti earthquake and cholera outbreak, through the lens of the 10 essential public health services. This framework illustrates the comprehensive nature of and helps categorize the activities necessary for a well-functioning public health system and can complement other assessments. Outlining the features of a public health system for recovery in structured manner can also help lay the foundation for sustainable long-term development leading to a more robust and resilient health system. labels: #Cholera#Delivery of Health Care#Disaster Planning#Disasters#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Emergencies#Haiti#Humans#Public Health#Public Health Systems Research#Retrospective Studies#World Health Organization"
b'Haiti is committed to malaria elimination by 2020. Following a 2010 earthquake and cholera epidemic, Haiti capitalized on investments in its health system to refocus on malaria elimination. Efforts, including expanding diagnostics, ensuring efficacy of standard treatments, building institutional capacity, and strengthening surveillance were undertaken to complement the broad health system strengthening activities. These efforts led to the adoption and scale-up of malaria rapid diagnostic tests as a diagnostic modality. In addition, drug-resistant monitoring has been established in the country, along with the development of molecular testing capacity for thePlasmodium falciparumparasite at the National Public Health Laboratory. The development and piloting of surveillance activities to include an enhanced community-based approach for testing and treatment of patients has increased the ability of the Ministry of Health to map foci of transmission and respond promptly to outbreaks. The reinforcement of evidence-based approaches coupled with strong collaboration among the Ministry of Health and partners has demonstrated that malaria elimination by 2020 is a realistic prospect. labels: #Antimalarials#Chloroquine#Cholera#Disasters#Disease Eradication#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Health Priorities#Humans#Malaria, Falciparum#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Public Health Surveillance'
b"Haiti's health system has faced many challenges over the years, with competing health priorities in the context of chronic financial and human resource limitations. As a result, the existing notifiable disease surveillance system was unable to provide the most basic epidemiologic data for public health decision-making and action. In the wake of the January 2010 earthquake, the Haitian Ministry of Public Health and Population collaborated with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Pan American Health Organization, and other local and international partners to implement a functional national surveillance system. More than 7 years later, it is important to take the opportunity to reflect on progress made on surveillance and response in Haiti, including disease detection, reporting, outbreak investigation, and response. The national epidemiologic surveillance network that started with 51 sites in 2010 has been expanded to 357 sites as of December 2015. Disease outbreaks identified via the surveillance system, or other surveillance approaches, are investigated by epidemiologists trained by the Ministry of Health's Field Epidemiology Training Program. Other related surveillance modules have been developed on the same model and electronic platform, allowing the country to document the impact of interventions, track progress, and monitor health problems. Sustainability remains the greatest challenge since most of the funding for surveillance come from external sources. labels: #Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Disasters#Disease Notification#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Health Priorities#Humans#International Cooperation#Public Health#United States"
b"The devastating 2010 cholera epidemic in Haiti prompted the government to introduce oral cholera vaccine (OCV) in two high-risk areas of Haiti. We evaluated the direct costs associated with the government's first vaccine campaign implemented in August-September 2013. We analyzed data for major cost categories and assessed the efficiency of available campaign resources to vaccinate the target population. For a target population of 107,906 persons, campaign costs totaled $624,000 and 215,295 OCV doses were dispensed. The total vaccine and operational cost was $2.90 per dose; vaccine alone cost $1.85 per dose, vaccine delivery and administration $0.70 per dose, and vaccine storage and transport $0.35 per dose. Resources were greater than needed-our analyses suggested that approximately 2.5-6 times as many persons could have been vaccinated during this campaign without increasing the resources allocated for vaccine delivery and administration. These results can inform future OCV campaigns in Haiti. labels: #Administration, Oral#Cholera#Cholera Vaccines#Costs and Cost Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Government Programs#Haiti#Humans#Immunization Programs"
b"Haiti, a Caribbean country of 10.5 million people, is estimated to have the highest burden of canine-mediated human rabies deaths in the Western Hemisphere, and one of the highest rates of human rabies deaths in the world. Haiti is also the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and has numerous economic and health priorities that compete for rabies-control resources. As a result, primary rabies-control actions, including canine vaccination programs, surveillance systems for human and animal rabies, and appropriate postbite treatment, have not been fully implemented at a national scale. After the 2010 earthquake that further hindered the development of public health program infrastructure and services, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention worked with the Ministry of Public Health and Population and key health development partners (including the Pan-American Health Organization) to provide technical expertise and funding for general disease surveillance systems, laboratory capacity, and selected disease control programs; including rabies. In 2011, a cross-ministerial rabies consortium was convened with participation from multiple international rabies experts to develop a strategy for successful rabies control in Haiti. The consortium focused on seven pillars: 1) enhancement of laboratory diagnostic capacity, 2) development of comprehensive animal surveillance system, 3) development of comprehensive human rabies surveillance system, 4) educational outreach, 5) sustainable human rabies biologics supply, 6) achievement of sustained canine vaccination rates of \xe2\x89\xa5 70%, and 7) finalization of a national rabies control strategy. From 2010 until 2015, Haiti has seen improvements in the program infrastructure for canine rabies control. The greatest improvements were seen in the area of animal rabies surveillance, in support of which an internationally recognized rabies laboratory was developed thereby leading to an 18-fold increase in the detection of rabid animals. Canine rabies vaccination practices also improved, from a 2010 level of approximately 12% to a 2015 dog population coverage level estimated to be 45%. Rabies vaccine coverage is still below the goal of 70%, however, the positive trend is encouraging. Gaps exist in the capacity to conduct national surveillance for human rabies cases and access to human rabies vaccine is lacking in many parts of the country. However, control has improved over the past 5 years as a result of the efforts of Haiti's health and agriculture sectors with assistance from multiple international organizations. Haiti is well situated to eliminate canine-mediated human rabies deaths in the near future and should serve as a great example to many developing countries struggling with similar barriers and limitations. labels: #Animals#Developing Countries#Disease Eradication#Disease Vectors#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Haiti#Humans#International Cooperation#Public Health Surveillance#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines"
b'Research provides the essential foundation of disease elimination programs, including the global program to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (GPELF). The development and validation of new diagnostic tools and intervention strategies, critical steps in the evolution of GPELF, required a global effort. Lymphatic filariasis research in Haiti involved many partners and was directly linked to the development of the national elimination program and to the success achieved to date. Ongoing research efforts involving many partners will continue to be important in resolving the challenges faced by the program today in its final efforts to achieve elimination. labels: #Diethylcarbamazine#Disease Eradication#Elephantiasis, Filarial#Filaricides#Haiti#Humans#Lymphedema'
b'Since the 2010 earthquake, tuberculosis (TB) control has been a major priority for health sector response and recovery efforts in Haiti. The goal of this study was to analyze trends in TB case notification in Haiti from the aggregate data reported by the National TB Control Program to understand the effects of such efforts. A total of 95,745 TB patients were registered for treatment in Haiti between 2010 and 2015. Three regions, the West, Artibonite, and North departments accounted for 68% of the TB cases notified during the period. Patients in the 15-34 age groups represented 53% (50,560) of all cases. Case notification rates of all forms of TB increased from 142.7/100,000 in 2010 to 153.4 in 2015, peaking at 163.4 cases/100,000 in 2013. Case notification for smear-positive pulmonary TB increased from 85.5 cases/100,000 to 105.7 cases/100,000, whereas treatment success rates remained stable at 79-80% during the period. Active TB case finding efforts in high-risk communities and the introduction of new diagnostics have contributed to increasing TB case notification trends in Haiti from 2010 to 2015. Targeted interventions and novel strategies are being implemented to reach high-risk populations and underserved communities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antitubercular Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Community Health Workers#Directly Observed Therapy#Disease Notification#Female#Haiti#Health Facilities#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Middle Aged#Treatment Outcome#Tuberculosis#Young Adult'
b'The objective of the study was to address some important questions related to prostate cancer treatments and survivorship. One of possibility to improve the survival probability of prostate cancer patients is to improve predictive strategies. Therefore in this article was created short-term multistep ahead predictive model for survival probability prediction of prostate cancer patients. Neuro-fuzzy model was used to select the most important inputs for the predictive model. As the inputs, current and time lagged variables were used. The results could be useful for simplification of predictive models to avoid multiple inputs. labels: #Decision Support Techniques#Fuzzy Logic#Humans#Male#Models, Statistical#Predictive Value of Tests#Probability#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk Factors#Survival Analysis#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'The oncoplastic approach to breast conservation therapy has become a useful and popular option for women with breast cancer who wish to preserve their breast. The initial driving forces were aimed at minimizing the potential for a breast conservation therapy deformity; however, various other benefits have been identified that include broadening the indications for breast conservation therapy in some patients and improved margin control. The various techniques can be categorized into glandular rearrangement techniques such as breast reductions usually in patients with larger breasts or flap reconstruction such as the latissimus dorsi muscle usually in patients with smaller breasts. As the acceptance continues to increase, we are starting to see more outcomes evidence in terms of patient satisfaction, quality of life, complications, and recurrence, to further support the safety and efficacy of the oncoplastic approach. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mastectomy, Segmental#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Patient Satisfaction#Quality of Life'
b"BACKGROUND: The care of kidney transplant recipients involves a balance between maximizing graft survival and serious adverse outcomes. This study aimed to quantify patients' preferences and trade-offs for important outcomes after transplantation.METHODS: A best-worst scaling survey, analyzed by multinomial-logit models, was used to calculate normalized preference scores (0, best; 1, worst), for varying years of graft duration and risk of dying before graft failure, cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, infection, anxiety/depression, diarrhoea/nausea, and weight gain. Willingness to trade years of graft survival to minimize the risk of adverse outcomes was calculated.RESULTS: Ninety-three transplant recipients from 2 Australian transplant units and an on-line panel (aged 18-69 years (mean time since transplantation, 7 years) completed the survey. Graft loss at 1 year was the least desirable outcome (mean preference value, 0.0:95% confidence intervals, -0.05 to 0.05) and worse than a 100% risk of dying before graft loss (0.17: 0.12-0.23). Graft duration of 5 years had the same preference scores (ie, as bad) as the maximum risk of all adverse outcomes including a 100% risk of dying before graft failure. To achieve zero risk of cancer, dying, and cardiovascular disease participants were only willing to trade 3.1(2.1 to 4.7), 1.7(1.1 to 2.5), and 1.2(0.8 to 1.8) years of graft survival, respectively, and less than 1 year for all other outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: Transplant recipients regarded graft loss as worse than death and showed minimal willingness to trade a reduction in this outcome with an improvement in any other outcome. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cause of Death#Graft Rejection#Graft Survival#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Kidney Transplantation#Logistic Models#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasms#New South Wales#Odds Ratio#Patient Preference#Postoperative Complications#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Many strategies regarding timing of native nephrectomies exist for patients with symptomatic polycystic kidney disease (PCKD).METHODS: This is a single-center, retrospective study of 594 adults with PCKD who had renal transplants from 1994 to 2014. Three groups were analyzed: renal transplant-only recipients (tx alone), recipients of simultaneous bilateral nephrectomies and transplant (simultaneous), and recipients with pretransplant bilateral nephrectomies (pre). The primary outcome was graft survival. Secondary outcomes included postoperative complications.RESULTS: Five hundred sixty-five adults with PCKD received kidney transplants (303 tx alone, 161 simultaneous, 27 pre). Ten-year posttransplant graft survival was 68.5%, 63.6%, and 65.7% for tx alone, simultaneous, and precohorts (P = 0.86). No statistically significant differences were observed in rates of postoperative ileus, deep vein thrombosis, small bowel obstruction, urinary stricture, urine leak, hernia formation, and delayed graft function. More wound complications were seen in prepatients (25.9% vs 11.1% tx alone, 5.1% simultaneous; P = 0.03), whereas simultaneous patients had a lower incidence of lymphocele (1.3% vs 11.1% pre, 10.2% tx-alone; P = 0.002). Importantly, simultaneous patients had more renal vascular thromboses (4.4% vs 1.3% tx alone, 0% pre; P = 0.04). 16.3% of renal transplant alone patients required nephrectomy at 10 years follow-up. Twenty-nine patients were referred for transplant having had nephrectomies and were ultimately not transplanted. In 4 of these patients who had data available for analysis, the mean panel-reactive antibody significantly increased after nephrectomy was performed.CONCLUSIONS: Simultaneous bilateral nephrectomy can be safely performed at the time of renal transplantation, however, carries a significantly increased risk of renal vascular thrombosis. labels: #Female#Graft Survival#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrectomy#Polycystic Kidney Diseases#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Time-to-Treatment#Treatment Outcome#Wisconsin'
b"Trial of labor after cesarean delivery (TOLAC) refers to a planned attempt to deliver vaginally by a woman who has had a previous cesarean delivery, regardless of the outcome. This method provides women who desire a vaginal delivery the possibility of achieving that goal-a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC). In addition to fulfilling a patient's preference for vaginal delivery, at an individual level, VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies as well as a decrease in the overall cesarean delivery rate at the population level (1-3). However, although TOLAC is appropriate for many women, several factors increase the likelihood of a failed trial of labor, which in turn is associated with increased maternal and perinatal morbidity when compared with a successful trial of labor (ie, VBAC) and elective repeat cesarean delivery (4-6). Therefore, assessing the likelihood of VBAC as well as the individual risks is important when determining who is an appropriate candidate for TOLAC. Thus, the purpose of this document is to review the risks and benefits of TOLAC in various clinical situations and to provide practical guidelines for counseling and management of patients who will attempt to give birth vaginally after a previous cesarean delivery. labels: #Female#Humans#Pregnancy#Trial of Labor#Vaginal Birth after Cesarean"
b'Vaginal seeding refers to the practice of inoculating a cotton gauze or a cotton swab with vaginal fluids to transfer the vaginal flora to the mouth, nose, or skin of a newborn infant. The intended purpose of vaginal seeding is to transfer maternal vaginal bacteria to the newborn. As the increase in the frequency of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders mirrors the increase in the rate of cesarean delivery, the theory of vaginal seeding is to allow for proper colonization of the fetal gut and, therefore, reduce the subsequent risk of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders. At this time, vaginal seeding should not be performed outside the context of an institutional review board-approved research protocol until adequate data regarding the safety and benefit of the process become available. labels: #Biological Therapy#Dysbiosis#Humans#Infant, Newborn'
b'Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common, benign condition in women. For many women it can cause vaginal bulge and pressure, voiding dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, which may adversely affect qual-ity of life. Women in the United States have a 13% lifetime risk of undergoing surgery for POP (1). Although POP can occur in younger women, the peak incidence of POP symptoms is in women aged 70-79 years (2). Given the aging population in the United States, it is anticipated that by 2050 the number of women experiencing POP will increase by approximately 50% (3). The purpose of this joint document of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Urogynecologic Society is to review information on the current understanding of POP in women and to outline guidelines for diagnosis and management that are consistent with the best available scientific evidence. labels: #Female#Gynecologic Surgical Procedures#Humans#Pelvic Organ Prolapse#Pessaries'
b"Trial of labor after cesarean delivery (TOLAC) refers to a planned attempt to deliver vaginally by a woman who has had a previous cesarean delivery, regardless of the outcome. This method provides women who desire a vaginal delivery the possibility of achieving that goal-a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC). In addition to fulfilling a patient's preference for vaginal delivery, at an individual level, VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies as well as a decrease in the overall cesarean delivery rate at the population level (1-3). However, although TOLAC is appropriate for many women, several factors increase the likelihood of a failed trial of labor, which in turn is associated with increased maternal and perinatal morbidity when compared with a successful trial of labor (ie, VBAC) and elective repeat cesarean delivery (4-6). Therefore, assessing the likelihood of VBAC as well as the individual risks is important when determining who is an appropriate candidate for TOLAC. Thus, the purpose of this document is to review the risks and benefits of TOLAC in various clinical situations and to provide practical guidelines for counseling and management of patients who will attempt to give birth vaginally after a previous cesarean delivery. labels: #Contraindications#Female#Humans#Misoprostol#Oxytocics#Pregnancy#Trial of Labor#Vaginal Birth after Cesarean"
b'Intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants, also called long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARC), are the most effective reversible contraceptive methods. The major advantage of LARC compared with other reversible contraceptive methods is that they do not require ongoing effort on the part of the patient for long-term and effective use. In addition, after the device is removed, the return of fertility is rapid (1, 2). The purpose of this Practice Bulletin is to provide information for appropriate patient selection and evidence-based recommendations for LARC initiation and management. The management of clinical challenges associated with LARC use is beyond the scope of this document and is addressed in Committee Opinion No. 672, Clinical Challenges of Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptive Methods (3). labels: #Contraceptive Agents, Female#Drug Implants#Female#Humans#Intrauterine Devices'
b"With the increased emphasis on patient-driven health care and readily available access to patients through the internet and media, many genetic testing companies have begun to market directly to consumers. Direct-to-consumer genetic testing raises unique concerns and considerations, including limited knowledge among patients and health care providers of available genetic tests, difficulty in interpretation of genetic test results, lack of oversight of companies that offer genetic testing, and issues of privacy and confidentiality. When undergoing any direct-to-consumer genetic testing, the consumer should be apprised of risk from screening or susceptibility test results that can neither prove nor eliminate disease potential. Because ordering an appropriate genetic test and interpretation of genetic test results are complex, an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider with knowledge of genetics should be involved in ordering and interpreting the results of any genetic test with medical implications. When an individual presents test results to a health care provider from a direct-to-consumer genomic test that putatively assesses the risk of specific diseases, the patient should be referred to an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider who is skilled in risk assessment for the diseases of interest and interpretation of genetic testing results in the context of the individual's relevant medical and family history. Because of these considerations and in view of the fact that the interpretation of the results requires specific training and medical knowledge, direct-to-consumer genetic testing should be discouraged because of the potential harm of a misinterpreted or inaccurate result. labels: #Direct-To-Consumer Screening and Testing#Genetic Testing#Humans"
b"BACKGROUND: Men are a growing patient population in aesthetic medicine and are increasingly seeking minimally invasive cosmetic procedures.OBJECTIVE: To examine differences in the timing of facial aging and in the prevalence of preventive facial aging behaviors in men by race/ethnicity.METHODS: Men aged 18 to 75 years in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia rated their features using photonumeric rating scales for 10 facial aging characteristics. Impact of race/ethnicity (Caucasian, black, Asian, Hispanic) on severity of each feature was assessed. Subjects also reported the frequency of dermatologic facial product use.RESULTS: The study included 819 men. Glabellar lines, crow's feet lines, and nasolabial folds showed the greatest change with age. Caucasian men reported more severe signs of aging and earlier onset, by 10 to 20 years, compared with Asian, Hispanic, and, particularly, black men. In all racial/ethnic groups, most men did not regularly engage in basic, antiaging preventive behaviors, such as use of sunscreen.CONCLUSION: Findings from this study conducted in a globally diverse sample may guide clinical discussions with men about the prevention and treatment of signs of facial aging, to help men of all races/ethnicities achieve their desired aesthetic outcomes. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Continental Population Groups#Cross-Sectional Studies#Esthetics#Face#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Photography#Skin Aging#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: Males are increasingly seeking minimally invasive cosmetic procedures such as botulinum toxin injection. However, few studies have specifically examined the efficacy of such procedures among men.OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of incobotulinumtoxinA for treating glabellar frown lines (GFLs) in men.METHODS: Three incobotulinumtoxinA studies were included in post hoc analyses of responder rates: 2 pivotal Phase 3 US registration studies for GFLs (n = 55 males in a pooled analysis) and a European pivotal Phase 3 study for upper facial lines (UFLs; n = 21 males).RESULTS: In the pooled analysis of Phase 3 GFL studies, 55.9% of males and 81.4% of females were responders on the Facial Wrinkle Scale (FWS) at 30 days. Similarly, 54.5% and 88.0% of males and females, respectively, treated for GFLs in the upper facial line study were responders on the Merz Aesthetics Scales (MAS) at 30 days. Lower proportions of male responders on the Facial Wrinkle Scale /Merz Aesthetics Scales were consistent with results from onabotulinumtoxinA and abobotulinumtoxinA GFL studies.CONCLUSION: Compared with females, males demonstrate lower response rates on wrinkle severity scales in studies on all 3 available botulinum toxins. Variations in treatment response are potentially associated with key male anatomic differences (e.g., muscle mass). Results emphasize the need for customized treatment plans. labels: #Botulinum Toxins, Type A#Double-Blind Method#Female#Forehead#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neuromuscular Agents#Prospective Studies#Skin Aging#Treatment Outcome'
b'The Research in Medical Education (RIME) Program Planning Committee is committed to advancing scholarship in and promoting dialogue about the critical issues of racism and bias in health professions education (HPE). From the call for studies focused on underrepresented learners and faculty in medicine to the invited 2016 RIME plenary address by Dr. Camara Jones, the committee strongly believes that dismantling racism is critical to the future of HPE.The evidence is glaring: Dramatic racial and ethnic health disparities persist in the United States, people of color remain deeply underrepresented in medical school and academic health systems as faculty, learner experiences across the medical education continuum are fraught with bias, and current approaches to teaching perpetuate stereotypes and insufficiently challenge structural inequities. To achieve racial justice in HPE, academic medicine must commit to leveraging positions of influence and contributing from these positions. In this Commentary, the authors consider three roles (educator, faculty developer, and researcher) represented by the community of scholars and pose potential research questions as well as suggestions for advancing educational research relevant to eliminating racism and bias in HPE. labels: #Academic Medical Centers#Curriculum#Education, Medical#Faculty, Medical#Health Occupations#Humans#Racism#Research Personnel'
b'PURPOSE: To examine validity evidence of local graduation competency examination scores from seven medical schools using shared cases and to provide rater training protocols and guidelines for scoring patient notes (PNs).METHOD: Between May and August 2016, clinical cases were developed, shared, and administered across seven medical schools (990 students participated). Raters were calibrated using training protocols, and guidelines were developed collaboratively across sites to standardize scoring. Data included scores from standardized patient encounters for history taking, physical examination, and PNs. Descriptive statistics were used to examine scores from the different assessment components. Generalizability studies (G-studies) using variance components were conducted to estimate reliability for composite scores.RESULTS: Validity evidence was collected for response process (rater perception), internal structure (variance components, reliability), relations to other variables (interassessment correlations), and consequences (composite score). Student performance varied by case and task. In the PNs, justification of differential diagnosis was the most discriminating task. G-studies showed that schools accounted for less than 1% of total variance; however, for the PNs, there were differences in scores for varying cases and tasks across schools, indicating a school effect. Composite score reliability was maximized when the PN was weighted between 30% and 40%. Raters preferred using case-specific scoring guidelines with clear point-scoring systems.CONCLUSIONS: This multisite study presents validity evidence for PN scores based on scoring rubric and case-specific scoring guidelines that offer rigor and feedback for learners. Variability in PN scores across participating sites may signal different approaches to teaching clinical reasoning among medical schools. labels: #Clinical Competence#Documentation#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Humans#Medical History Taking#Patient Simulation#Physical Examination#Reproducibility of Results#Schools, Medical'
b"PURPOSE: The Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine (HNSOM) uses an essay-based assessment system. Recognizing the emphasis graduate medical education places on the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step exams, the authors developed a method to predict students at risk for lower performance on USMLE Step 1.METHOD: Beginning with the inaugural class (2015), HNSOM administered National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) Customized Assessment Service (CAS) examinations as formative assessment at the end of each integrated course in the first two years of medical school. Using preadmission data, the first two courses in the educational program, and NBME score deviation from the national test takers' mean, a statistical model was built to predict students who scored below the Step 1 national mean.RESULTS: A regression equation using the highest Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) score and NBME score deviation predicted student Step 1 scores. The MCAT alone accounted for 21% of the variance. Adding the NBME score deviation from the first and second courses increased the variance to 40% and 50%, respectively. Adding NBME exams from later courses increased the variance to 52% and 64% by the end of years one and two, respectively. Cross-validation demonstrated the model successfully predicted 63% of at-risk students by the end of the fifth month of medical school.CONCLUSIONS: The model identified students at risk for lower performance on Step 1 using the NBME CAS. This model is applicable to schools reforming their curriculum delivery and assessment programs toward an integrated model. labels: #Adult#Clinical Competence#College Admission Test#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#Humans#Licensure, Medical#Male#Regression Analysis#Risk Assessment#Schools, Medical#United States"
b"PURPOSE: Compare the effect of personalized feedback (PF) vs. task demonstration (TD), both delivered via video, on laparoscopic knot-tying skills and perceived workload; and evaluate the effect of repeated practice.METHOD: General surgery interns and research fellows completed four repetitions of a simulated laparoscopic knot-tying task at one-month intervals. Midway between repetitions, participants received via e-mail either a TD video (demonstration by an expert) or a PF video (video of their own performance with voiceover from a blinded senior surgeon). Each participant received at least one video per format, with sequence randomly assigned. Outcomes included performance scores and NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX) scores. To evaluate the effectiveness of repeated practice, scores from these trainees on a separate delayed retention test were compared against historical controls who did not have scheduled repetitions.RESULTS: Twenty-one trainees completed the randomized study. Mean change in performance scores was significantly greater for those receiving PF (difference = 23.1 of 150 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0, 46.2], P = .05). Perceived workload was also significantly reduced (difference = -3.0 of 20 [95% CI: -5.8, -0.3], P = .04). Compared with historical controls (N = 93), the 21 with scheduled repeated practice had higher scores on the laparoscopic knot-tying assessment two weeks after the final repetition (difference = 1.5 of 10 [95% CI: 0.2, 2.8], P = .02).CONCLUSIONS: Personalized video feedback improves trainees' procedural performance and perceived workload compared with a task demonstration video. Brief monthly practice sessions support skill acquisition and retention. labels: #Clinical Competence#Formative Feedback#General Surgery#Humans#Laparoscopy#Practice (Psychology)#Suture Techniques#Video Recording#Workload"
b"PURPOSE: Capturing either lapses or excellence in behaviors related to medical professionalism is difficult. The authors report a mixed-methods analysis of a novel mobile platform for assessing medical professionalism in a training environment.METHOD: A mobile Web-based platform to facilitate professionalism assessment in a situated clinical setting (Professional Mobile Monitoring of Behaviors [PROMOBES]) was developed. A professionalism framework consisting of six domains (reliability, adaptability, peer relationships, upholding principles, team relationships, and scholarship) encompassing 25 subelements underpins the reporting structure. This pilot study involved 26 faculty supervising 93 medical trainees at two sites from January 12 to August 8, 2016. Notable professionalism behaviors were linked to the framework domains and elements; narrative details about incidences were captured on mobile devices. Surveys gauged the technological functionality and impact of PROMOBES on faculty assessment of professionalism. Qualitative focus groups were employed to elucidate user experience.RESULTS: Although users anticipated PROMOBES's utility would be for reporting lapses in professionalism, 94.7% of reports were for commendation. Comfort assessing professionalism (P = .04) and recognition of the reporting procedures for professionalism-related concerns (P = .01) improved. PROMOBES attained high acceptance ratings. Focus group analysis revealed that the explicit connection to the professionalism framework was powerful; similarly, the near real-time reporting capability, multiple observer inputs, and positive feedback facilitation were strengths.CONCLUSIONS: Making the professionalism framework visible and accessible via a mobile platform significantly strengthens faculty knowledge and behaviors regarding assessment. The strong desire to capture positive behaviors was an unexpected finding. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Clerkship#Education, Medical, Graduate#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Faculty, Medical#Female#Focus Groups#Formative Feedback#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Male#Middle Aged#Mobile Applications#Pediatrics#Pilot Projects#Professional Competence#Professionalism#Qualitative Research#Reproducibility of Results#Students, Medical"
b'PURPOSE: Learning to make decisions under uncertain conditions is a critical component of diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning. This study sought to determine treatment decisions medical students make when presented with different thresholds of diagnostic uncertainty and whether they appropriately adjust diagnostic probabilities with test information.METHOD: Two classes (2015, 2016) of fourth-year students (N = 342) were presented a patient with viral pneumonia and given 10%, 20%, or 50% pretest probabilities of that patient having a superimposed bacterial infection. Students decided to not treat, order a diagnostic test to guide management, or treat without testing based on these probabilities. The 2015 class was provided a posttest probability of 10% or 50% and asked to adjust their initial treatment decision.RESULTS: When given a low (10%) pretest probability, students were less likely to decide to treat (6%) and more likely to decide not to treat (36%). The percentage of students deciding to treat increased as the pretest probability of a superimposed infection increased from 10% to 50%, while the percentage of students not wanting to treat decreased. Interestingly, at 10%, 20%, and 50% pretest probability levels, most students were unable to decide and chose to order another test (57%, 67%, and 64%, respectively). When provided low and high posttest probabilities, students appropriately adjusted their decision making, but 29% to 32% still wanted additional testing.CONCLUSIONS: Students adjusted treatment decisions to reflect different levels of diagnostic uncertainty, but varied considerably in their individual thresholds to make decisions, possibly contributing to unnecessary testing. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Clinical Competence#Clinical Decision-Making#Cohort Studies#Coinfection#Evidence-Based Medicine#Humans#Influenza, Human#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Pneumonia, Viral#Probability#Random Allocation#Students, Medical'
b"PURPOSE: Physicians routinely transition responsibility for patient care to other physicians. When transitions of responsibility occur before the clinical outcome is known, physicians may lose opportunities to learn from the consequences of their decision making. Sometimes curiosity about patients does not end with the transition and physicians continue to follow them. This study explores physicians' motivations to follow up after transitioning responsibilities.METHOD: Using a constructivist grounded theory approach, the authors conducted 18 semistructured interviews in 2016 with internal medicine hospitalist and resident physicians at a single tertiary care academic medical center. Constant comparative methods guided the qualitative analysis, using motivation theories as sensitizing constructs.RESULTS: The authors identified themes that characterized participants' motivations to follow up. Curiosity about patients' outcomes determined whether or not follow-up occurred. Insufficient curiosity about predictable clinical problems resulted in the choice to forgo follow-up. Sufficient curiosity due to clinical uncertainty, personal attachment to patients, and/or concern for patient vulnerability motivated follow-up to fulfill goals of knowledge building and professionalism. The authors interpret these findings through the lenses of expectancy-value (EVT) and self-determination (SDT) theories of motivation.CONCLUSIONS: Participants' curiosity about what happened to their patients motivated them to follow up. EVT may explain how participants made choices in time-pressured work settings. SDT may help interpret how follow-up fulfills needs of relatedness. These findings add to a growing body of literature endorsing learning environments that consider task-value trade-offs and support basic psychological needs of autonomy, competency, and relatedness to motivate learning. labels: #Aftercare#Female#Grounded Theory#Hospitalists#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Male#Medical Staff, Hospital#Motivation#Patient Transfer#Qualitative Research"
b'PURPOSE: Patient continuity, described as the student participating in the provision of comprehensive care of patients over time, may offer particular opportunities for student learning. The aim of this study was to describe how students experience patient continuity and what they learn from it.METHOD: An interpretive phenomenological study was conducted between 2015 and 2016. Seventeen fourth-year medical students were interviewed following a longitudinal clinical placement and asked to describe their experiences of patient continuity and what they learned from each experience. Transcripts were analyzed by iteratively refining and testing codes, using health system definitions of patient continuity as sensitizing concepts to develop descriptive themes.RESULTS: Students described three different forms of patient continuity. Continuity of care, or relational continuity, enabled students to build trusting and professional relationships with their patients. Geographical continuity allowed students to access information about patients from electronic records and their preceptors which allowed students to achieve diagnostic closure and learn to reevaluate their decisions. Students valued the learning that accrued from following challenging patients and addressing challenging decisions over time. Although difficult, these patient continuity experiences led students to critical reflection that was both iterative and deep, leading to intentions for future behavior.CONCLUSIONS: Patient continuity in medical education does not depend solely on face-to-face continuity. Within various patient continuity experiences, following challenging patients and experiencing unanticipated diagnostic and management outcomes trigger critical reflection in students, leading to deep learning. labels: #Access to Information#Clinical Clerkship#Continuity of Patient Care#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Learning#Male#Physician-Patient Relations#Qualitative Research#Students, Medical'
b'PURPOSE: Health professionals are expected to routinely assess their weaknesses, set learning goals, and monitor their achievement. Unfortunately, it is well known that these professionals often struggle with effectively integrating external data and self-perceptions. To know how best to intervene, it is critical that the health professionals community understand the cues students and practitioners use to assess their abilities. Here the authors aimed to gain insights into how and why medical students set learning goals, monitor their progress, and demonstrate their learning.METHOD: In 2012, the authors conducted semistructured interviews with Year 2 students (n = 20), applying an inductive approach to data analysis by iteratively developing, refining, and testing coding structures.RESULTS: Themes were constructed through discussion and consensus: (1) Students were diverse in how they set learning goals, (2) they used a range of approaches to monitor their progress, and (3) they struggled to balance studying for exams with preparation for clinical training. Tensions observed highlight assumptions embedded in medical curricula that can be problematic.CONCLUSIONS: Educators often treat medical students as a cohesive whole, thereby creating a mismatch between assessments that are intended to be formative and information students use to monitor their progress. Despite limited exposure to clinical contexts, goal generation and monitoring often stem from a desire to prepare for clinical practice. In grappling with these tensions, it is important to be mindful that students are individualistic in how they balance their commitment to prepare for clinical work and the need to concentrate on exams. labels: #Achievement#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Goals#Humans#Qualitative Research#Self Concept#Students, Medical'
b'PURPOSE: To determine medical students\' study behaviors when preparing for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1, and how these behaviors are associated with Step 1 scores when controlling for likely covariates.METHOD: The authors distributed a study-behaviors survey in 2014 and 2015 at their institution to two cohorts of medical students who had recently taken Step 1. Demographic and academic data were linked to responses. Descriptive statistics, bivariate correlations, and multiple linear regression analyses were performed.RESULTS: Of 332 medical students, 274 (82.5%) participated. Most students (n = 211; 77.0%) began studying for Step 1 during their preclinical curriculum, increasing their intensity during a protected study period during which they averaged 11.0 hours studying per day (standard deviation [SD] 2.1) over a period of 35.3 days (SD 6.2). Students used numerous third-party resources, including reading an exam-specific 700-page review book on average 2.1 times (SD 0.8) and completing an average of 3,597 practice multiple-choice questions (SD 1,611). Initiating study prior to the designated study period, increased review book usage, and attempting more practice questions were all associated with higher Step 1 scores, even when controlling for Medical College Admission Test scores, preclinical exam performance, and self-identified score goal (adjusted R = 0.56, P<.001).CONCLUSIONS: Medical students at one public institution engaged in a self-directed, "parallel" Step 1 curriculum using third-party study resources. Several study behaviors were associated with improved USMLE Step 1 performance, informing both institutional- and student-directed preparation for this high-stakes exam. labels: #Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Educational Measurement#Humans#Licensure, Medical#Students, Medical#Test Taking Skills'
b"PURPOSE: To explore when and in what form pediatric faculty and residents practice reflection.METHOD: From February to June 2015, the authors conducted focus groups of pediatric faculty and residents at the University of California, Davis; Stanford University; and the University of California, San Francisco, until thematic saturation occurred. Transcripts were analyzed based on Mezirow's and Schon's models of reflection, using the constant comparative method associated with grounded theory. Two investigators independently coded transcripts and reconciled codes to develop themes. All investigators reviewed the codes and developed a final list of themes through consensus. Through iterative discussions, investigators developed a conceptual model of reflection in the clinical setting.RESULTS: Seventeen faculty and 20 residents from three institutions participated in six focus groups. Five themes emerged: triggers of reflection, intrinsic factors, extrinsic factors, timing, and outcome of reflection. Various triggers led to reflection; whether a specific trigger led to reflection depended on intrinsic and extrinsic factors. When reflection occurred, it happened in action or on action. Under optimal conditions, this reflection was goal and action directed and became critical reflection. In other instances, this process resulted in unproductive rumination or acted as an emotional release or supportive therapy.CONCLUSIONS: Participants reflected in clinical settings, but did not always explicitly identify it as reflection or reflect in growth-promoting ways. Strategies to enhance critical reflection include developing knowledge and skills in reflection, providing performance data to inform reflection, creating time and space for safe reflection, and providing mentorship to guide the process. labels: #Faculty, Medical#Female#Focus Groups#Grounded Theory#Humans#Internship and Residency#Male#Pediatrics#Qualitative Research"
b"PURPOSE: Without a proper understanding of conflict between health care professionals, designing effective conflict management training programs for trainees that reflect the complexity of the clinical working environment is difficult. To better inform the development of conflict management training, this study sought to explore health care professionals' experiences of conflicts and their characteristics.METHOD: Between 2014 and early 2016, 82 semistructured interviews were conducted with health care professionals directly involved in first-line patient care in four departments of the University Hospitals of Geneva. These professionals included residents, fellows, certified nursing assistants, nurses, and nurse supervisors. All interviews were transcribed verbatim, and conventional content analysis was used to derive conflict characteristics.RESULTS: Six conflict sources were identified. Among these sources, disagreements on patient care tended to be the primary trigger of conflict, whereas sources related to communication contributed to conflict escalation without directly triggering conflict. A framework of workplace conflict that integrates its multidimensional and cyclical nature was subsequently developed. This framework suggests that conflict consequences and responses are interrelated, and might generate further tensions that could affect health care professionals, teams, and organizations, as well as patient care. Findings also indicated that supervisors' responses to contentious situations often failed to meet health care professionals' expectations.CONCLUSIONS: Understanding conflicts between health care professionals involves several interrelated dimensions, such as sources, consequences, and responses to conflict. There is a need to strengthen health care professionals' ability to identify and respond to conflict and to further develop conflict management programs for clinical supervisors. labels: #Adult#Communication#Dissent and Disputes#Female#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Male#Medical Staff, Hospital#Middle Aged#Multilevel Analysis#Negotiating#Nurse Administrators#Nurses#Patient Care Team#Qualitative Research"
b'PURPOSE: To analyze educators\' experiences of facilitating cultural discussions in two global health professions education programs and what these experiences had taught them about critical consciousness.METHOD: A multicultural research team conducted in-depth interviews with 16 faculty who had extensive experience facilitating cultural discussions. They analyzed transcripts of the interviews thematically, drawing sensitizing insights from Gramsci\'s theory of cultural hegemony. Collaboration and conversation helped the team self-consciously examine their positions toward the data set and be critically reflexive.RESULTS: Participant faculty used their prior experience facilitating cultural discussions to create a "safe space" in which learners could develop critical consciousness. During multicultural interactions they recognized and explicitly addressed issues related to power differentials, racism, implicit bias, and gender bias. They noted the need to be "facile in attending to pain" as learners brought up traumatic experiences and other sensitive issues including racism and the impact of power dynamics. They built relationships with learners by juxtaposing and exploring the sometimes-conflicting norms of different cultures. Participants were reflective about their own understanding and tendency to be biased. They aimed to break free of such biases while role modeling how to have the courage to speak up.CONCLUSIONS: Experience had given facilitators in multicultural programs an understanding of their responsibility to promote critical consciousness and social justice. How faculty without prior experience or expertise could develop those values and skills is a topic for future research. labels: #Adult#Consciousness#Cultural Competency#Cultural Diversity#Faculty, Medical#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Power (Psychology)#Qualitative Research#Racism#Sexism#Social Justice#Thinking'
b'PURPOSE: The importance of confidence for learning and performance makes learners\' perceptions of readiness for the next level of training valuable indicators of curricular success. The "Readiness for Clerkship" (RfC) and "Readiness for Residency" (RfR) surveys have been shown to provide reliable ratings of the relative effectiveness of various aspects of training. This study examines the generalizability of those results.METHOD: Surveys were administered at four medical schools approximately four months after the start of clerkship and eight months after the start of residency during 2013-2015. Collected data were anonymized. A total of 647 medical students and 483 residents participated.RESULTS: Reliabilities of G = 0.8 could be obtained with only 6 to 12 medical students and 8 to 15 residents. Within MD programs, no meaningful differences in item ratings were observed across cohorts. Residents in each school consistently rated themselves higher than clerks on the majority of Medical Expert and Communicator competencies common to both surveys. Similar strengths and weaknesses were identified across programs, but differences were observed on five clerkship items and one residency item.CONCLUSIONS: Across four MD programs, the RfC and RfR surveys provided reliable ratings of the relative effectiveness of aspects of training with small numbers of respondents. The capacity of these surveys to efficiently identify perceived strengths and weaknesses held by cohorts of learners may, thereby, facilitate program improvement. labels: #Adult#Clinical Clerkship#Clinical Competence#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#Humans#Internship and Residency#Male#Program Evaluation#Self Concept#Students, Medical#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"PURPOSE: Entrustable professional activities (EPAs) have become a cornerstone of assessment in competency-based medical education (CBME). Increasingly, EPAs are being adopted that do not conform to EPA standards. This study aimed to develop and validate a scoring rubric to evaluate EPAs for alignment with their purpose, and to identify substandard EPAs.METHOD: The EQual rubric was developed and revised by a team of education scholars with expertise in EPAs. It was then applied by four residency program directors/CBME leads (PDs) and four nonclinician support staff to 31 stage-specific EPAs developed for internal medicine in the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada's Competency by Design framework. Results were analyzed using a generalizability study to evaluate overall reliability, with the EPAs as the object of measurement. Item-level analysis was performed to determine reliability and discrimination value for each item. Scores from the PDs were also compared with decisions about revisions made independently by the education scholars group.RESULTS: The EQual rubric demonstrated high reliability in the G-study with a phi-coefficient of 0.84 when applied by the PDs, and moderate reliability when applied by the support staff at 0.67. Item-level analysis identified three items that performed poorly with low item discrimination and low interrater reliability indices. Scores from support staff only moderately correlated with PDs. Using the preestablished cut score, PDs identified 9 of 10 EPAs deemed to require major revision.CONCLUSIONS: EQual rubric scores reliably measured alignment of EPAs with literature-described standards. Further, its application accurately identified EPAs requiring major revisions. labels: #Canada#Clinical Competence#Competency-Based Education#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Graduate#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Reproducibility of Results"
b'BACKGROUND: Current American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations regarding transition from child safety/booster seat to adult safety belt use indicate that children should be at least 4 feet 9 inches, 8 years old, or 80 pounds. Proper fit in the vehicle seat, assessed with a five-point fit test, should also be met. Although most children reach 4 feet 9 inches around age 8 years, each child and vehicle presents a unique combination; thus a child may not fit appropriately in all vehicle types using only the 4 feet 9 inches requirement.METHODS: We enrolled children, aged 7 years to 12 years, into our study. Height, weight, and demographic data were obtained. A Child Passenger Safety Technician then performed the five-point fit test in each of a uniform lineup of five vehicles. Data were collected on fit in the standard vehicle seat and also in a booster seat. We set 90% as the threshold proportion of children who meet all criteria for proper fit to validate current recommendations of a height of 4 feet 9 inches.RESULTS: Data were collected on 388 children. The percentage of 90% proper fit was met in the compact car and small sport-utility vehicle (SUV). However, only 80 (77%) of 104 students (p<0.0001) that were 4 feet 9 inches or higher fit properly in the large SUV, only 87 (83%) of 105 students (p = 0.02) fit properly in the pickup truck, and only 91 (89%) of 102 students (p = 0.74) fit properly in the minivan.CONCLUSION: Substantial proportions of children meeting current height guidelines for an adult seat belt do not meet safety requirements for fit, especially in larger, commonly used vehicles (large SUVs and trucks). This emphasizes the need for evaluation of fit by a trained personnel and/or development of standard back seat dimensions in all vehicles for maximum safety.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiologic level 1. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Automobiles#Body Size#Child#Child Restraint Systems#Equipment Design#Guideline Adherence#Guidelines as Topic#Humans#Seat Belts#Societies, Medical#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among teen drivers. The main goal of this program was to reduce texting while driving among high school teens through a unique peer-generated anti-texting campaign.METHODS: The program consisted of two phases. In phase 1, student leaders participated in a half-day, hospital-based experiential program that emphasized safe teen driving. In phase 2, these students conceptualized and implemented an anti-texting while driving campaign during the school year. The program enrolled 32 schools with 137 student participants in phase 1. This study uses a prospective quasi-experimental pre-post design. A presurvey and a follow-up online survey were used. Response rate was 81%. In phase 2, two rounds of observations of drivers were made near the participating schools at the beginning and end of the phase 2 campaign. The results were analyzed using proportion tests.RESULTS: There was a strong belief (6.49 on a seven-point scale) that texting while driving could result in a crash. About 58% had texted while driving in the previous 7 days in the pre-survey. This proportion decreased significantly to 44% in the follow-up (p<0.05). Knowledge of Tennessee Graduated Driver Licensing laws and feeling of empowerment to take action with a teen driver who was texting improved significantly (p<0.05). In phase 2, 12,309 drivers (adults and teens) were observed in the first round, and 13,153 were observed in the second round of observations. Significant reduction in the proportion of drivers texting while driving (from 13% to 9%; p<0.0001) was observed.CONCLUSION: Results of driver observations support the effectiveness of this program in meeting the key objective of reducing texting while driving. The program also influenced teenagers' willingness to take positive steps when faced with a driver who was texting. Future efforts should aim to influence social and peer norms.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic study, level IV. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adolescent Behavior#Automobile Driving#Cause of Death#Female#Health Promotion#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Schools#Tennessee#Text Messaging"
b'BACKGROUND: Violent-related (assault) injuries are a leading cause of death and disability in the United States. Many violent injury victims seek treatment in the emergency department (ED). Our objectives were to (1) estimate rates of violent-related injuries evaluated in United States EDs, (2) estimate linear trends in ED visits for violent-related injuries from 2000 to 2010, and (3) to determine the associated health care and work-loss costs.METHODS: We examined adults 18 years and older from a nationally representative survey (the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey) of ED visits, from 2000 to 2010. Violent injury was defined using International Classification of Diseases-9th Rev.-Clinical Modification, diagnosis and mechanism of injury codes. We calculated rates of ED visits for violent injuries. Medical and work-loss costs accrued by these injuries were calculated for 2005, inflation-adjusted to 2011 dollars using the WISQARS Cost of Injury Reports.RESULTS: An annual average of 1.4 million adults were treated for violent injuries in EDs from 2000 to 2010, comprising 1.6% (95% confidence interval, 1.5%-1.6%) of all US adult ED visits. Young adults (18-25 years), men, nonwhites, uninsured or publically insured patients, and those residing in high poverty urban areas were at increased risk for ED visits for violent injury. The 1-year, inflation-adjusted medical and work-loss cost of violent-inflicted injuries in adults in the United States was US $49.5 billion.CONCLUSION: Violent injuries account for over one million ED visits annually among adults, with no change in rates over the past decade. Young black men are at especially increased risk for ED visits for violent injuries. Overall, violent-related injuries resulted in substantial financial and societal costs.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiological study, level III. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#United States#Violence#Wounds and Injuries'
b"The American Nurses Credentialing Center's Magnet Recognition Program\xc2\xae released the 2019 Magnet\xc2\xae Application Manual () in October. The 2019 manual is the 12th application manual in the 27-year history of the program. The manual builds upon the foundation of seminal research conducted in the early 1980s that led to the creation of the program yet incorporates contemporary standards that address challenges faced globally by healthcare organizations today. labels: #Awards and Prizes#Benchmarking#Credentialing#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Leadership#Nursing Research#Nursing Service, Hospital#United States"
b'After reviewing the literature, nurses at the bedside seeking answers to clinical questions may find their inquiries remain unanswered. This article describes the yearlong Research Fellows Program in which candidates, funded for 12 hours per month of research release time, answered formal research questions in a curriculum designed to provide the skills to complete their study. Five have completed their studies; 1 has received a grant to continue. Two are in process of submitting manuscripts to journals. labels: #Clinical Nursing Research#Evidence-Based Nursing#Fellowships and Scholarships#Humans#Models, Nursing#Practice Guidelines as Topic'
b"With the industry in flux as federal healthcare reform legislation debates continue, leaders are preparing for what the post-Affordable Care Act world might look like. Predictions include patients assuming more responsibility for healthcare costs and therefore behaving like consumers, including choosing providers based on perceived value. What actions should chief nurse executives take to ensure the nursing enterprise responds to rising consumerism in healthcare? labels: #Choice Behavior#Community Participation#Consumer Health Information#Cost Sharing#Health Care Costs#Health Expenditures#Humans#Nurse Administrators#Nurse's Role#Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act#United States"
b'The CGEAN Board established a goal to support MSN administration programs to thrive and meet the need for well-prepared nurses to assume leadership roles. This column addresses how we embarked on this work through creation of a Circle of Advisors composed of national nursing leaders who came together to address specific curricular issues and more importantly to voice support for continuation of MSN administration programs. labels: #Education, Nursing, Graduate#Humans#Leadership#Nurse Administrators#Personnel Selection#Personnel Turnover#Retirement'
b"Healthcare systems seek effective ways to support and treat the growing number of individuals living with serious illness. The nature of these care episodes challenges delivery systems to attain proficiency in dealing with the multiplicity of chronic conditions in individuals and populations through understanding and attending to patients' medical and nonmedical aspects of health. This article describes LifeCourse, a healthcare approach that provides palliative care practices to patients with serious illness years prior to death. labels: #Caregivers#Holistic Health#Humans#Multiple Chronic Conditions#Palliative Care#Patient Preference#Patient-Centered Care#Professional-Family Relations#Professional-Patient Relations#Quality of Life#Social Support"
b'This article describes 1 organization\'s successful approach to mitigating the potential negative effects of a new electronic medical record on patient experience. The Carolina Care model, developed at the University of North Carolina Hospitals to actualize caring theory in practice, helped to structure and greatly facilitate this work. Seven focus areas were integrated to create the "Communication in an Electronic Environment" program with a strong emphasis on nurse-patient communication. labels: #Documentation#Electronic Health Records#Health Plan Implementation#Humans#Models, Organizational#North Carolina#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Patient Satisfaction'
b'OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to assess benefits of the acuity-adaptable (AA) care model in rural hospitals.BACKGROUND: The AA model aims to provide care in the same space from admission to discharge regardless of acuity. Evidence is lacking to support claims that AA care will improve patient safety, increase nurse productivity, and improve patient/staff satisfaction in rural hospitals.METHODS: Patients admitted to a rural intensive care unit (ICU) were allocated to an AA group or an ICU group. Patients in the AA group remained in the ICU room through discharge. Patients in the ICU group transferred out of ICU when acuity permitted. Patient anxiety, depression, and perception of emotional care were measured. Staff responses were assessed qualitatively.RESULTS: Acuity-adaptable patients reported significantly more anxiety and less perceived emotional care than ICU patients. Intensive care unit nurses resisted caring for less acute patients.CONCLUSION: Disadvantages may outweigh benefits of AA care delivery in the rural ICU. labels: #Adult#Attitude of Health Personnel#Efficiency, Organizational#Female#Focus Groups#Hospitals, Rural#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Organizational#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Handoff#Patient Safety#Patient Satisfaction#Patient Transfer#Pilot Projects#Program Evaluation'
b"OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to explore the relationship of night-shift napping on fatigue.BACKGROUND: Nurses' fatigue, especially at night, interferes with quality of life and job performance and impacts safety and health.METHODS: Night-shift nurses completed the Brief Fatigue Inventory and a demographic information sheet to determine differences in fatigue between nurses who napped during their night shift as compared with nurses who did not nap.RESULTS: No statistically significant differences in global fatigue were found; differences in rotating shift, age, and, gender were identified. Rotating shifts, a 2nd job, and caring for family predicted fatigue.CONCLUSIONS: Based on this pilot study, further investigations of fatigue among night-shift nurses are needed as well as evidence-based support to promote sleep. labels: #Adult#Circadian Rhythm#Fatigue#Female#Humans#Male#Medical Errors#Middle Aged#Night Care#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Safety#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Pilot Projects#Sleep Deprivation#Work Schedule Tolerance#Young Adult"
b'Perforated fluid distribution pipes have been widely used in agriculture, water supply and drainage, ventilation, the chemical industry, and other sectors. The momentum equation for variable mass flow with a variable exchange coefficient and variable friction coefficient was developed by using the momentum conservation method under the condition of a certain slope. The change laws of the variable momentum exchange coefficient and the variable resistance coefficient along the flow were analyzed, and the function of the momentum exchange coefficient was given. According to the velocity distribution of the power function, the momentum equation of variable mass flow was solved for different Reynolds numbers. The analytical solution contains components of pressure, gravity, friction and momentum and reflects the influence of various factors on the pressure distribution along the perforated pipe. The calculated results of the analytical solution were compared with the experimental values of the study by Jin et al. 1984 and Wang et al. 2001 with the mean errors 8.2%, 3.8% and 2.7%, and showed that the analytical solution of the variable mass momentum equation was qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with the experimental results. labels: #Friction#Gravitation#Pressure#Water#Water Supply'
b"Antibodies are thought to play an essential role in naturally acquired immunity to malaria. Prospective cohort studies have frequently shown how continuous exposure to the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum cause an accumulation of specific responses against various antigens that correlate with a decreased risk of clinical malaria episodes. However, small effect sizes and the often polymorphic nature of immunogenic parasite proteins make the robust identification of the true targets of protective immunity ambiguous. Furthermore, the degree of individual-level protection conferred by elevated responses to these antigens has not yet been explored. Here we applied a machine learning approach to identify immune signatures predictive of individual-level protection against clinical disease. We find that commonly assumed immune correlates are poor predictors of clinical protection in children. On the other hand, antibody profiles predictive of an individual's malaria protective status can be found in data comprising responses to a large set of diverse parasite proteins. We show that this pattern emerges only after years of continuous exposure to the malaria parasite, whereas susceptibility to clinical episodes in young hosts (<10 years) cannot be ascertained by measured antibody responses alone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aging#Antigens, Protozoan#Autoantibodies#Biomarkers#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Susceptibility#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Infant#Machine Learning#Malaria#Plasmodium falciparum#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Adult seroprevalence of HAV is decreasing in developed countries including South Korea, due to general sanitation improvement. Although hepatitis A vaccination was introduced in South Korea more than 20 years ago, recent infection rates have not decreased. In this study, we investigate the seroprevalence of anti-HAV IgG, and estimate the national disease burden of acute hepatitis A in adult population.METHODS: Seroprevalence data were collected from health promotion center of Korea University Guro Hospital, in Seoul, Korea from 2010 to 2014. Data from adults (\xe2\x89\xa520-years) being tested for anti-HAV IgG were included. In addition, epidemiological and clinical data of patients diagnosed with acute hepatitis A from 2009 to 2013, were collected from Korean Statistical Information Service (KOSIS) and the National Health Insurance Service (NHIS) database. Data were stratified and compared by age groups.RESULTS: A total of 11,177 subjects were tested for anti-HAV IgG from 2010 to 2014. Age-related seroprevalence showed relatively low seropositivity in young adults. Incidence of acute hepatitis A was highest in 2009 and lowest in 2013. When categorized by age group, adults in their 20s and 30s had more HAV infections and related-admissions than older adults. However, ICU admission rate and average insurance-covered cost was high in older adults.CONCLUSION: The anti-HAV IgG seropositivity in Korean younger adult population was low while the incidence of acute hepatitis A was high, especially in the 20-39 aged. However, a substantial number of older adults were infected, and required more intensive procedures and incurred higher insurance-covered medical costs. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Female#Hepatitis A#History, 21st Century#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Republic of Korea#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVE: Cognitive deficits are common in Parkinson's disease (PD) since the early stages and many patients eventually develop dementia. Yet, occurrence of dementia in PD is unpredictable. Evidence supports the hypothesis that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is involved in cognitive deficits. Our aim was to evaluate the relationship between serum IGF-1 levels and neuropsychological scores in a large cohort of drug-na\xc3\xafve PD patients during the earliest stages of the disease.METHODS: Serum IGF-1 levels were determined in 405 early, drug-na\xc3\xafve PD patients and 191 healthy controls (HC) enrolled in the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI). The association between serum IGF-1 levels and neuropsychological scores was evaluated with linear regression analysis.RESULTS: IGF-1 levels were similar in PD and HC. In PD patients the lowest IGF-1 quartile was a predictor of lower performances at the Semantic Fluency task (\xce\xb2 = -3.46, 95%CI: -5.87 to -1.01, p = 0.005), the Symbol Digit Modalities Score (\xce\xb2 = -2.09, 95%CI: -4.02 to -0.15, p = 0.034), and Hopkins Verbal Learning Test Retention (\xce\xb2 = -0.05, 95%CI: -0.09 to -0.009, p = 0.019).CONCLUSIONS: Lower serum IGF-1 levels are associated to poor performances in cognitive tasks assessing executive function, attention and verbal memory in a large cohort of early PD patients. Follow-up studies are warranted to assess if IGF-1 is related to the development of dementia in PD. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cognition Disorders#Female#Humans#Insulin-Like Growth Factor I#Male#Middle Aged#Parkinson Disease"
b'Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) was conducted on 333 Cercospora isolates collected from Beta vulgaris (sugar beet, table beet and swiss chard) in the USA and Europe. Cercospora beticola was confirmed as the species predominantly isolated from leaves with Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) symptoms. However, C. cf. flagellaris also was detected at a frequency of 3% in two table beet fields in New York. Resolution of the spatial structure and identification of clonal lineages in C. beticola populations using genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) obtained from GBS was compared to genotyping using microsatellites. Varying distance thresholds (bitwise distance = 0, 1.854599 \xc3\x97 10-4, and 1.298 \xc3\x97 10-3) were used for delineation of clonal lineages in C. beticola populations. Results supported previous reports of long distance dispersal of C. beticola through genotype flow. The GBS-SNP data set provided higher resolution in discriminating clonal lineages; however, genotype identification was impacted by filtering parameters and the distance threshold at which the multi-locus genotypes (MLGs) were contracted to multi-locus lineages. The type of marker or different filtering strategies did not impact estimates of population differentiation and structure. Results emphasize the importance of robust filtering strategies and designation of distance thresholds for delineating clonal lineages in population genomics analyses that depend on individual assignment and identification of clonal lineages. Detection of recurrent clonal lineages shared between the USA and Europe, even in the relaxed-filtered SNP data set and with a conservative distance threshold for contraction of MLGs, provided strong evidence for global genotype flow in C. beticola populations. The implications of intercontinental migration in C. beticola populations for CLS management are discussed. labels: #Ascomycota#Beta vulgaris#Genotype#Microsatellite Repeats#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the current incidence, clinical features, risk factors, aetiology, antimicrobial resistance and outcomes of polymicrobial bloodstream infection (PBSI) in patients with cancer.METHODS: All prospectively collected episodes of PBSI in hospitalised patients were compared with episodes of monomicrobial bloodstream infection (MBSI) between 2006 and 2015.RESULTS: We identified 194 (10.2%) episodes of PBSI and 1702 MBSI (89.8%). The presence of cholangitis, biliary stenting, neutropenia, corticosteroids, neutropenic enterocolitis and other abdominal infections were identified as risk factors for PBSI. Overall, Gram-negative organisms were the most frequent aetiology, but Enterococcus spp. were especially frequent causes of Gram-positive PBSI (30.8%). Multidrug-resistant (MDR) organisms were more commonly found in PBSI than in MBSI (20.6% vs 12.9%; p = 0.003). Compared to patients with MBSI, those with PBSI presented with higher early (15% vs 1.4%; p = 0.04) and overall (32% vs 20.9%; p<0.001) case-fatality rates. Risk factors for overall case-fatality were a high-risk MASCC (Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer) index score, corticosteroid use, persistent bacteraemia and septic shock.CONCLUSIONS: PBSI is a frequent complication in patients with cancer and is responsible for high mortality rates. Physicians should identify patients at risk for PBSI and provide empiric antibiotic therapy that covers the most frequent pathogens involved in these infections, including MDR strains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Infective Agents#Bacteremia#Coinfection#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis is a leading global cause of health-related quality of life loss. The aim of this project was to quantify health losses arising from knee osteoarthritis in New Zealand (NZ) in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost.METHODS: The Osteoarthritis Policy Model (OAPol), a validated Monte Carlo computer simulation model, was used to estimate QALYs lost due to knee osteoarthritis in the NZ adult population aged 40-84 over their lifetimes from the base year of 2006 until death. Data were from the NZ Health Survey, NZ Burden of Diseases, NZ Census, and relevant literature. QALYs were derived from NZ EQ-5D value set 2. Sensitivity to health state valuation, disease and pain prevalence were assessed in secondary analyses.RESULTS: Based on NZ EQ-5D health state valuations, mean health losses due to knee osteoarthritis over people's lifetimes in NZ are 3.44 QALYs per person, corresponding to 467,240 QALYs across the adult population. Average estimated per person QALY losses are higher for non-M\xc4\x81ori females (3.55) than M\xc4\x81ori females (3.38), and higher for non-M\xc4\x81ori males (3.34) than M\xc4\x81ori males (2.60). The proportion of QALYs lost out of the total quality-adjusted life expectancy for those without knee osteoarthritis is similar across all subgroups, ranging from 20 to 23 percent.CONCLUSIONS: At both the individual and population levels, knee osteoarthritis is responsible for large lifetime QALY losses. QALY losses are higher for females than males due to greater prevalence of knee osteoarthritis and higher life expectancy, and lower for M\xc4\x81ori than non-M\xc4\x81ori due to lower life expectancy. Large health gains are potentially realisable from public health and policy measures aimed at decreasing incidence, progression, pain, and disability of osteoarthritis. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#New Zealand#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Quality of Life"
b'BACKGROUND: Wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation (WAGR) syndrome is a rare genetic disorder caused by heterozygous deletions of WT1 and PAX6 at chromosome 11p13. Deletion of BDNF is known eto be associated with hyperphagia and obesity in both humans and animal models; however, neuroendocrine and epigenetic profiles of individuals with WAGR syndrome remain to be determined.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 5-year-old girl with the typical phenotype of WAGR syndrome. She showed profound delays in physical growth, motor and cognitive development without signs of obesity. Array comparative genome hybridization (CGH) revealed that she carried a 14.4\xc2\xa0Mb deletion at 11p14.3p12, encompassing the WT1, PAX6 and BDNF genes. She experienced recurrent hypoglycemic episodes at 5\xc2\xa0years of age. Insulin tolerance and hormonal loading tests showed normal hypothalamic responses to the hypoglycemic condition and other stimulations. Methylation analysis for freshly prepared DNA from peripheral lymphocytes using the pyro-sequencing-based system showed normal patterns of methylation at known imprinting control regions.CONCLUSIONS: Children with WAGR syndrome may manifest profound delay in postnatal growth through unknown mechanisms. Epigenetic factors and growth-associated genes in WAGR syndrome remain to be characterized. labels: #Child, Preschool#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#Comparative Genomic Hybridization#DNA Methylation#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Hormones#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Sequence Deletion#WAGR Syndrome'
b'BACKGROUND: Studying human genome using chromosomal microarrays has significantly improved the accuracy and yield of diagnosing genomic disorders. Chromosome 7q36 deletions and duplications are rare genomic disorders that have been reported in a limited number of children with developmental delay, growth retardation, and congenital malformation. Altered dosage of SHH and HLXB9, both located in 7q36.3, is believed to play roles in the phenotypes associated with these rearrangements. In this report we describe a child with 7q36.1q36.2 triplication that is proximal to the 7q36.3 region. In addition to the clinical description, we discuss the genes located in the triplicated region.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 22\xc2\xa0month old male child with a de novo 1.35\xc2\xa0Mb triplication at 7q36.1q36.2. His prenatal course was complicated by oligohydramnios, intrauterine growth restriction, and decreased fetal movement. Hypotonia, respiratory distress, and feeding difficulty were observed in the neonatal period. He also had developmental delay, cardiovascular malformation, growth failure with microcephaly, short stature, and underweight, sensorineural hearing loss, myopia, astigmatism, cryptorchidism, hypospadias, microphallus, lower extremity length discrepancy, bifid uvula, single palmer creases, and distinctive facial features including straight eyebrows, ptosis, up-slanted palpebral fissures, broad nasal bridge, low-set and posteriorly rotated ears, small mouth with thick lower lip, microretrognathia, and high-arched palate.CONCLUSIONS: The child presented here had developmental delay, distinctive facial features, multiple congenital anomalies, and 7q36.1q36.2 triplication. This triplication, which was found to be de novo, has not been previously described and is believed to result in the observed phenotype. The triplicated region harbors the GALNTL5, GALNT11, KMT2C, XRCC2, and ACTR3B genes. GALNT11 encodes a membrane-bound polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase that can O-glycosylate NOTCH1 leading to the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. Therefore, increased GALNT11 dosage can potentially alter the Notch signaling pathway explaining the pathogenicity of 7q36 triplication. Studying further cases with similar genomic rearrangements is needed to make final conclusions about the pathogenicity of this triplication. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Chromosome Duplication#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 7#Gene Amplification#Humans#Infant#Male#N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferases'
b'OBJECTIVE: Ruptured endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (REVAR) is being increasingly used to treat ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (rAAAs). However, the comparison between totally percutaneous (pREVAR) vs femoral cutdown (cREVAR) access for REVAR has not been studied. We used a national surgical database to evaluate the 30-day outcomes in patients undergoing pREVAR vs cREVAR.METHODS: Patients who underwent EVAR for rAAA between 2011 and 2014, inclusively, were studied in the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) targeted vascular database. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to compare preoperative demographics, operation-specific variables, and postoperative outcomes between those who had pREVAR and cREVAR.RESULTS: We identified 502 patients who underwent REVAR, of which 129 had pREVAR (25.7%) and 373 cREVAR (74.3%). Between 2011 and 2014, the use of totally percutaneous access for repair increased from 14% to 32%. Of all patients undergoing REVAR, 24% had bilateral percutaneous access, 2% had attempted percutaneous access converted to cutdown, 64% had bilateral femoral cutdowns, and 10% had single femoral cutdown. Univariate analysis showed there were no significant differences in age, gender, body mass index, AAA size, or other high-risk physiologic comorbidities between the two groups. There was also no difference in rates of preoperative hemodynamic instability (48.1% vs 45.0%; P\xc2\xa0= .55) or need for perioperative transfusion (67.4% vs 67.8%; P\xc2\xa0= .94). There was a higher incidence of use of regional anesthesia for pREVAR compared with cREVAR (20.9% vs 7.8%; P\xc2\xa0<.01). The incidence of postoperative wound complications was similar between both groups (4.8% vs 5.4%; P\xc2\xa0= .79), whereas hospital length of stay was shorter in the pREVAR group (mean difference, 1.3\xc2\xa0days). Overall 30-day mortality was higher in the pREVAR group (28.7% vs 20.1%; P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0.04), and operative time was longer (mean difference, 6.3\xc2\xa0minutes). However, when pREVARs done in 2011 to 2012 were compared with those done in 2013 to 2014, 30-day mortality decreased from 38.2% to 25.3% and operative time decreased by 25\xc2\xa0minutes (188 to 163\xc2\xa0minutes). Multivariate analysis showed there were no significant differences in mortality, wound complications, hospital length of stay, or operative time between pREVAR and cREVAR.CONCLUSIONS: The ACS NSQIP targeted vascular database shows that there has been increased adoption of pREVAR in recent years, with improved mortality and\xc2\xa0operative time over the 4-year study period. At this point, pREVAR has not yet been shown to be superior to cREVAR for\xc2\xa0rAAA, but these outcome improvements are encouraging and likely attributable to increased operator experience. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Aortic Rupture#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Chi-Square Distribution#Databases, Factual#Endovascular Procedures#Female#Femoral Artery#Humans#Length of Stay#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'OBJECTIVE: Randomized trials have shown an initial survival benefit of endovascular over conventional open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair but no long-term difference up to 6\xc2\xa0years after repair. Longer follow-up may be required to demonstrate the cumulative negative impact on survival of higher reintervention rates associated with endovascular repair.METHODS: We updated the results of the Dutch Randomized Endovascular Aneurysm Management (DREAM) trial, a multicenter, randomized controlled trial comparing open with endovascular aneurysm repair, up to 15\xc2\xa0years of follow-up. Survival and reinterventions were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. Causes of death and secondary interventions were compared by use of an events per person-year analysis.RESULTS: There were 178 patients randomized to open and 173 to endovascular repair. Twelve years after randomization, the cumulative overall survival rates were 42.2% for open and 38.5% for endovascular repair, for a difference of 3.7 percentage points (95% confidence interval,\xc2\xa0-6.7 to 14.1; P\xc2\xa0= .48). The cumulative rates of freedom from reintervention were 78.9% for open repair and 62.2% for endovascular repair, for a difference of 16.7 percentage points (95% confidence interval, 5.8-27.6; P\xc2\xa0= .01). No differences were observed in causes of death. Cardiovascular and malignant disease account for the majority of deaths after prolonged follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: During 12\xc2\xa0years of follow-up, there was no survival difference between patients who underwent open or endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, despite a continuously increasing number of reinterventions in the endovascular repair group. Endograft durability and the need for continued endograft surveillance remain key issues. labels: #Aged#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Belgium#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Cause of Death#Disease-Free Survival#Endovascular Procedures#Female#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Netherlands#Postoperative Complications#Retreatment#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'Approximately 80% of ovarian cancer (OC) is diagnosed at late stages, and most patients die within 5 years of diagnosis due to recurrence or drug resistance. Novel treatments are required to improve patient survival. Immune therapy against cancer is promising; however, therapeutic vaccination has been limited by the inability of tumor antigens to induce effective immune responses. Chloride intracellular channel 1 (CLIC1) was previously identified as a possible tumor marker for OC. In this study, we constructed a recombinant protein by conjugating the extracellular domain of CLIC1 to the carboxyl terminus of Mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock protein 70 (MtHsp70). Human dendritic cells (DCs) derived from cortical blood were pulsed with the fusion protein, and the antitumor effect of human cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) stimulated by autologous DCs was assessed in NOG mice. MtHsp70-CLIC1 promoted the phenotypic maturation of human DCs and the secretion of Th1-associated cytokines in\xc2\xa0vitro. MtHsp70-CLIC1-stimulated CTLs generated a CLIC1-specific immune response both in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo. These results indicate that DCs pulsed with MtHsp70-CLIC1 can enhance antitumor immunity against OC, providing a novel immune therapeutic strategy. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cancer Vaccines#Cell Line, Tumor#Chloride Channels#Dendritic Cells#Female#HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred NOD#Mice, SCID#Ovarian Neoplasms#Recombinant Fusion Proteins#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Imbalance of M1/M2 macrophages phenotype activation is a key point in diabetic nephropathy (DN). Macrophages mainly exhibit M1 phenotype, which contributes to the inflammation and fibrosis in DN. Studies indicate that autophage plays an important role in M1/M2 activation. However, the effect of mitophage on M1/M2 macrophage phenotype transformation in DN is unknown. This study investigates the role of mitophage on macrophage polarization in DN. In\xc2\xa0vivo experiments show that macrophages are exhibited to M1 phenotype and display a lower level of mitophagy in the kidney of streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Additionally, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression is positive correlated with the P62 expression, while negative correlated with LC3. Electronic microscope analysis shows mitochondria swelling, crista decrease and lysosome reduction in DN rats compared with NC rats. In\xc2\xa0vitro, RAW264.7 macrophages switch to M1 phenotype under high glucose conditions. Mitophagy is downregulated in such high glucose induced M1 macrophages. Furthermore, macrophages tend to switch to the M1 phenotype, expressing higher iNOS and TNF-\xce\xb1 when impair mitophagy by 3-MA. Rapamycin, an activator of mitophagy, signifcantly blocks high-glucose induced M1 makers (iNOS and TNF-\xce\xb1) expression, meanwhile enhances M2 makers (MR and Arg-1) expression. These results demonstrate that mitophage participates in the regulation of M1/M2 macrophage phenotype in diabetic nephropathy. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Diabetic Nephropathies#Glucose#Kidney#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Degradation#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II#Phenotype#RAW 264.7 Cells#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'Nitric oxide (NO) is considered as a signalling molecule involved in a variety of important physiological and pathological processes in plant and animal systems. The major pathway of NO reactions in\xc2\xa0vivo represents S-nitrosation of thiols to form S-nitrosothiols. S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR) is the key enzyme in the degradation pathway of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), a low-molecular weight adduct of NO and glutathione. GSNOR indirectly regulates the level of protein S-nitrosothiol in the cells. This study was focused on the dynamic regulation of the activity of plant GSNORs through reversible S-nitrosation and/or oxidative modifications of target cysteine residues. Pre-incubation with NO/NO-donors or hydrogen peroxide resulted in a decreased reductase and dehydrogenase activity of all studied plant GSNORs. Incubation with thiol reducing agent completely reversed inhibitory effects of nitrosative modifications and partially also oxidative inhibition. In biotin-labelled samples, S-nitrosation of plant GSNORs was confirmed after immunodetection and using mass spectrometry S-nitrosation of conserved Cys271 was identified in tomato GSNOR. Negative regulation of constitutive GSNOR activity in\xc2\xa0vivo by nitrosative or oxidative modifications might present an important mechanism to control GSNO levels, a critical mediator of the downstream signalling effects of NO, as well as for formaldehyde detoxification in dehydrogenase reaction mode. labels: #Aldehyde Oxidoreductases#Animals#Cysteine#Hydrogen Peroxide#Lycopersicon esculentum#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Donors#Nitrosation#Oxidation-Reduction#Plant Proteins#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Recombinant Proteins#S-Nitrosoglutathione#S-Nitrosothiols#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Coumarins are a member of the benzopyrone family of compounds with diverse and interesting pharmacological properties. In the present study, we report the in vitro cytotoxicity evaluation of 7,8-Diacetoxy-3-arylcoumarin derivatives (5a-h) in human prostate (PC-3) and breast (MDA-MB-231) cancer cell lines.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cytotoxic activity was evaluated using crystal violet dye-binding assay. Furthermore, the most active compound in vitro cytotoxic activity in human non-cancerous cell line and its effect on the cell-cycle phases, apoptosis proteins expression, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and Glutathione (GSH) level were performed.RESULTS: Among the eight compounds that were evaluated, 7,8-Diacetoxy-3-(4-methylsulfonyl phenyl)coumarin (5f) was the most active derivative with highest cytotoxic activity and selectivity against the PC-3 cell line vs. the non-cancerous WPE1-N22 cell line. The cytotoxic action of compound 5f in PC-3 cells is associated with the cell-cycle arrest at -G0/G1 phase, apoptosis, loss in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and depletion of Glutathione (GSH) level.CONCLUSION: The result indicates that the presence of p-methylsulfonylphenyl group on compound 5f is critical in modulating selective cytotoxic activity and induction of apoptosis via the mitochondrial apoptotic signaling pathway that is independent of cytochrome c release. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Coumarins#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Prostatic Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been shown to inhibit the induction and progression of many tumor types. The aim of this study was to determine the anticancer effect of docosahexaenoic acid monoglyceride (MAG-DHA) alone and in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent carboplatin (CBT) on lung cancer models.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adenocarcinoma cell lines A549 and H1299 were used to evaluate the effect of combined MAG-DHA and CBT treatments both in vitro and in vivo in xenograft models.RESULTS: MAG-DHA+CBT treatment decreased cell proliferation and invasion abilities of A549 and H1299 cells. Furthermore, MAG-DHA+CBT treatment resulted in a decreased activation of epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in cell lysates. In A549 and H1299 xenograft mouse models, MAG-DHA+CBT treatment reduced tumor growth.CONCLUSION: Combined MAG-DHA and CBT treatment inhibited tumor growth by suppressing EGFR and ERK signaling pathways in lung carcinoma cells. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Carboplatin#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Mice#Mice, Nude#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Monoglycerides#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND: Temozolomide is the primary chemotherapeutic agent used to treat glioblastoma. However, many tumors are initially resistant to or develop resistance to temozolomide, mainly due to high levels of O6-methylguanine DNA transferase (MGMT) which repairs DNA damage traditionally caused by temozolomide. Dihydrotanshinone (DHT) is extracted from Salvia miltiorrhiza, a Chinese medicinal plant, and has also been shown to have antiproliferative effects on various cancer cell lines. DHT has been to shown to induce apoptosis via induction endoplasmic reticulum stress, that can reportedly sensitize cells to temozolomide.MATERIALS AND METHODS: MTS cellular proliferation assays or trypan blue viability assays were used to determine the effects of DHT/temozolomide combinatorial treatment. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine effects on MGMT and P-glycoprotein levels after singular and combinatorial treatment.RESULTS: DHT had a synergistic oncolytic effect in a MGMT-deficient cell line and a sensitizing effect in a MGMT-expressing cell line. Cytotoxicity due to DHT was shown to be reactive oxygen species-dependent, while the combinatorial effect of DHT and temozolomide synergistically reduced MGMT and P-glycoprotein levels.CONCLUSION: DHT was shown to augment temozolomide efficacy, indicating that, since DHT can penetrate the blood-brain barrier, temozolomide in combination with DHT may represent a promising therapeutic option for glioblastoma. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Dacarbazine#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Drug Synergism#Glioblastoma#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Phenanthrenes#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic Ductal adeno-carcinoma (PDAC) is a devastating disease. Gemcitabine is the standard chemotherapeutic agent against PDAC but has only limited effectiveness. The aim of the study was to develop and study the targeting affinity and in vitro antiproliferative effect of a MUC4-targeted gemcitabine-loaded immuno-liposome for treatment of PDAC.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Gemcitabine-loaded immunoliposomes were developed by grafting anti-MUC4 antibodies to the liposomal surface. Targeting affinity was compared in vitro between immunoliposomes and non-targeted liposomes and anti-proliferative effect was compared in vitro between free drug, non-targeted liposomal gemcitabine and MUC4-targeted immunoliposomal gemcitabine on a MUC4-positive pancreatic cancer cell line, Capan-1.RESULTS: Development of a MUC4-targeted immunoliposome was confirmed and characterized by immunoblots and size characterization. The MUC4-targeted immunoliposome showed a significantly higher targeting affinity compared to the non-targeted liposomes and also showed an improved antiproliferative effect compared to free and non-targeted liposomal drug.CONCLUSION: Successful development and characterization of a MUC4-targeted immunoliposome shows promising results for a targeted treatment and improved retention of gemcitabine for treatment of PDAC. labels: #Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Cell Proliferation#Deoxycytidine#Drug Synergism#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Liposomes#Mucin-4#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Fucoidans are gaining popularity as natural immunomodulators. The aim of this study was to compare the immunological activities or both purified samples and commercially available mixtures containing fucoidan.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated the effects of various samples on phagocytosis, mitogenic response, natural killer (NK) activity, antibody formation and inhibition of breast cancer growth.RESULTS: We found significant immunostimulating activity, but the strength of these effects was different among individual samples.CONCLUSION: Fucoidans have strong immunostimulating potential, including inhibition of cancer, with isolated samples offering better activity than commercial mixtures. labels: #Adjuvants, Immunologic#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Female#Immunologic Factors#Inflammation#Killer Cells, Natural#Macrophages#Mammary Neoplasms, Animal#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Phagocytosis#Polysaccharides#T-Lymphocytes'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: B cell-specific Moloney murine leukemia virus integration site 1 (BMI1) is up-regulated in several cancers; therefore, we investigated the effects of BMI1 inhibitors on leukemia cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four acute myeloid leukemia and two T-lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines were treated with BMI1 inhibitors artemisinin, PRT4165, and PTC-209 and analyzed for cell proliferation and gene expression by microarray and immunoblotting.RESULTS: PTC-209 and PRT4165 suppressed the growth of all cell lines through apoptosis.Artemisinin acted only on Jurkat cells. BMI1 inhibitors and BMI1-specific siRNA down-regulated the expression of NOTCH signaling proteins NOTCH1, HES1, and MYC. All but one cell lines did not have the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A) gene targeted by BMI1, thus the inhibitors acted through CDKN2A-independent pathways.CONCLUSION: BMI1 inhibition suppressed proliferation of leukemia cells through NOTCH signaling which functions downstream of BMI1, suggesting that BMI1 inhibitors can be candidate targeted drugs against leukemia. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Heterocyclic Compounds, 2-Ring#Humans#Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute#Leukemia, T-Cell#Polycomb Repressive Complex 1#RNA, Small Interfering#Receptors, Notch#Signal Transduction#Thiazoles#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the characteristics of two cisplatin (CDDP)-loaded, sialyl Lewis X-modified liposomes (CDDP-SLX-LIP) with different particle size. Each had the same lipid composition and CDDP concentration, but a different drug-to-lipid ratio.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The amount of platinum in the filtrates was determined by the ICP method. The antitumor effect was assessed using rats bearing MRMT-1 tumor.RESULTS: CDDP release was faster from the larger liposome formulation (L-LIP) than from the smaller one (S-LIP). Treatment with the two CDDP-SLX-LIPs resulted in comparable antitumor effects without obvious side-effects, but treatment with CDDP solution resulted in significant weight loss and an elevated BUN. Tumor accumulation of CDDP-SLX-LIP was clearly greater than that of CDDP solution and accumulation of S-LIP was greater than that of L-LIP.CONCLUSION: CDDP-SLX-LIP exhibited antitumor effects depending on their release behavior and tumor accumulation. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Cisplatin#Drug Liberation#Female#Liposomes#Mammary Neoplasms, Experimental#Oligosaccharides#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Tissue Distribution'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pirarubicin (THP) has shown equal or superior cytotoxicity compared to doxorubicin. One of the main anticancer actions of doxorubicin is believed to be involved in ROS (reactive oxygen species) generation. Therefore, the anticancer mechanisms of THP may involve ROS generation. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanisms of THP-induced apoptosis through ROS generation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed the apoptotic events induced by THP in HL-60 cells and HP100 cells, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-resistant cells derived from HL-60.RESULTS: The apparent cytotoxicity could be detected at above 0.1 \xce\xbcM in HL-60 cells after 24-h incubation, whereas it was suppressed under these conditions in HP100 cells. In HP100 cells, THP-induced apoptosis, evaluated by DNA ladder formation, H2O2generation, mitochondrial membrane potential decrease and caspase-3/7 activity, was suppressed or delayed compared to those of HL-60 cells.CONCLUSION: These findings can be explained by the involvement of H2O2generation in the THP apoptotic pathway. This is the first report on THP-induced apoptosis through the H2O2generation. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: (-)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) has been indicated to regulate the function of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is a drug transporter encoded by the MDR1 (ABCB1) gene. P-gp expression is induced by doxorubicin (DOX). We aimed to clarify the mechanisms and inhibitory effects of EGCG on DOX-induced P-gp expression in HepG2 cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rhodamine 123 (Rho123) was used for P-gp substrate. Western blotting and polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) were conducted using specific antibodies and primer sets.RESULTS: The DOX-pretreated cells accumulated a significantly decreased amount of Rho123), than control cells; however, the cells pretreated with EGCG and DOX, in combination, accumulated Rho123 more than DOX-pretreated cells. DOX induced the overexpression of MDR1 mRNA and increased the phosphorylation of Akt, ERK1/2, p38 MAPK and JNK. EGCG significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of Akt and ERK. The DOX-induced P-gp overexpression was partially suppressed by an inhibitor of MEK1/2 (U0126), but not by a PI3K inhibitor (LY294002). Interestingly, the expression of P-gp was synergistically inhibited by combined treatment of U0126 with LY294002 and also inhibited by an mTORC1 inhibitor, rapamycin.CONCLUSION: EGCG inhibited DOX-induced overexpression of P-gp through the coordinate inhibitory action on MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. labels: #ATP Binding Cassette Transporter, Sub-Family B#Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Catechin#Doxorubicin#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Neuroprotective Agents#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Phosphorylation#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Rhodamine 123#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b"BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma is an embryonal malignancy arising from the aberrant growth of neural crest progenitor cells of the sympathetic nervous system. The tachykinin receptor 1 (TACR1) - substance P complex is associated with tumoral angiogenesis and cell proliferation in a variety of cancer types. Inhibition of TACR1 was recently described to impede growth of NB cell lines. However, the relevance of TACR1 in clinical settings is unknown.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We investigated gene expression levels of full-length and truncated TACR1 in 59 neuroblastomas and correlated these data with the patients' clinical parameters such as outcome, metastasis, International Neuroblastoma Staging System (INSS) status, MYCN proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor (MYCN) status, gender and age.RESULTS: Our results indicated that TACR1 is ubiquitously expressed in neuroblastoma but expression levels are independent of clinical parameters.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that TACR1 might serve as a potent anticancer target in a large variety of patients with neuroblastoma, independent of tumor biology and clinical stage. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Biomarkers, Tumor#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#N-Myc Proto-Oncogene Protein#Neoplasm Staging#Neuroblastoma#Prognosis#Receptors, Neurokinin-1#Survival Rate#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: An example of plant-derived compounds that may be of great importance in oncological therapy is emodin. The aim of this study was to evaluate the range of changes in the lysosomal compartment of HeLa cervical cancer cells treated with emodin.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Changes in the lysosomal compartment were evaluated using microscopic techniques. In order to evaluate the activity of lysosomal enzymes and the permeability of the lysosomal membrane, a spectrophotometric technique was employed.RESULTS: Emodin induced significant changes in the lysosomal compartment, manifesting as an increase in the number of lysosomes, autophagic vacuoles and the activity of lysosomal hydrolases. Emodin exhibited cytotoxic activity against lysosomes through lysosomal membrane damage with possible leaks of lysosomal hydrolases into the cytoplasm.CONCLUSION: Emodin induces degradation processes and promotes the death of tumor cells through a mechanism that occurs with clear involvement of the lysosomal compartment. labels: #Apoptosis#Autophagy#Cell Proliferation#Emodin#Female#Humans#Hydrolases#Lysosomes#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms#Vacuoles'
b'Tetrandrine is an alkaloid extracted from a traditional China medicine plant, and is considered part of food therapy as well. In addition, it has been widely reported to induce apoptotic cell death in many human cancer cells. However, the mechanism of Tetrandrine on human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells (NPC) is still questioned. In our study, we examined whether Tetrandrine can induce apoptosis of NPC-TW 039 cells. We found that cell morphology was changed after treatment with different concentrations of Tetrandrine. Further, we indicated that the NPC-TW 039 cells viability decreased in a Tetrandrine dose-dependent manner. We also found that tetrandrine induced cell cycle arrest in G0/G1phase. Tetrandrine induced DNA condensation by DAPI staining as well. In addition, we found that Tetrandrine induced Ca2+release in the cytosol. At the same time, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress occurred. Then we used western blotting to examine the protein expression which is associated with mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways and caspase-dependent pathways. To further examine whether Ca2+was released or not with Tetrandrine induced-apoptosis, we used the chelator of Ca2+and showed that cell viability increased. At the same time, caspase-3 expression was decreased. Furthermore, confocal microscopy examination revealed that Tetrandrine induced expression of ER stress-related proteins GADD153 and GRP78. Our results indicate that Tetrandrine induces apoptosis through calcium-mediated ER stress and caspase pathway in NPC-TW 039 cells. In conclusion, Tetrandrine may could be used for treatment of human nasopharyngeal carcinoma in future. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Benzylisoquinolines#Calcium#Calpain#Carcinoma#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Middle Aged#Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase (Smac) is a proapoptogenic mitochondrial protein that antagonizes inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs), resulting in induction of apoptosis. In the present study we investigated the effects of a Smac mimetic in combination with doxorubicin against osteosarcoma.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vitro effects of the combination of a Smac mimetic AT-406 and doxorubicin on cell proliferation and apoptosis in osteosarcoma cell lines were examined using cell proliferation assays, flow cytometry, and immunoblot analyses. For in vivo experiments, human osteosarcoma xenografts were treated with combination of the two substances, and tumor volume and apoptotic activity in treated tumors were assessed.RESULTS: In vitro studies revealed that combination of the two substances significantly inhibited osteosarcoma proliferation with decreased cIAP1 expression and induced apoptosis in osteosarcoma cells. Combination of the two substances significantly suppressed osteosarcoma growth in vivo. Moreover, decreased cIAP1 expression and increased apoptotic activity were observed in tumors treated by their combination of the substances.CONCLUSION: The Smac mimetic AT-406 showed an apoptotic effect and a synergistic antitumor effect with doxorubicin on osteosarcoma. The combination of AT-406 and doxorubicin may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for osteosarcoma treatment. labels: #Animals#Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Azocines#Benzhydryl Compounds#Bone Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Oligopeptides#Osteosarcoma#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The neurokinin 3 receptor (NK-3R) is differentially expressed in the central nervous system including cases of human oral squamous cell carcinoma. However, the role of NK-3R signaling in oral squamous cell carcinoma is not well known.MATERIALS AND METHODS: NK-3R expression in surgically resected oral squamous cell carcinoma was examined immunohistochemically and the strength of the expression was quantified. We evaluated the function of NK-3R signaling using NK-3R antagonist in human oral squamous cell carcinoma bone invasion mouse model.RESULTS: NK-3R was significantly expressed in tumor cells that had invaded the bone matrix compared to the oral side tumor cells. SB222200, a selective antagonist of NK-3R, significantly suppressed the radiographic osteolytic lesion and tumorigenesis.CONCLUSION: NK-3R signaling is a potential target for the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma in cases of bone destruction. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Bone Resorption#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Mouth Neoplasms#Prognosis#Quinolines#Receptors, Neurokinin-3#Retrospective Studies#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Previous evidence demonstrates that trehalose liposomes (DMTreC14) composed of L-\xce\xb1-dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) and \xce\xb1-D-glycopyranosyl-\xce\xb1-D-glucopyranoside monomyristate (TreC14) inhibit proliferation and invasion on lung carcinoma (A549 cells) in vitro. Here, we aimed to investigate suppressive effects of DMTreC14 on the growth of tumor on human lung carcinoma bearing mice.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DMTreC14 composed of 30 mol% DMPC and 70 mol% TreC14 were prepared by the sonication method. Anti-tumor activities of DMTreC14 using the subcutaneous and orthotopic graft-bearing mice of A549 cells were investigated in vivo.RESULTS: The remarkable reduction of volume and weight in subcutaneous tumors on subcutaneous lung carcinoma-bearing mice topically administrated with DMTreC14 were obtained. Apoptotic-positive cells in the subcutaneous tumor slice of subcutaneous lung carcinoma-bearing mice topically administrated with DMTreC14 were observed using TUNEL staining. Lung weights on the orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma intravenously administrated with DMTreC14 were markedly decreased compared to those of the control group. Remarkable decrease in dimensions of tumor area of lung on the orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma intravenously administrated with DMTreC14 was obtained in histological analysis using the hematoxylin and eosin staining.CONCLUSION: Remarkably high anti-tumor activities of DMTreC14 for the subcutaneous and orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma accompanied with apoptosis were revealed for the first time in vivo. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Liposomes#Lung Neoplasms#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Trehalose#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND: Several reports have shown that the overexpression of the MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (MET), was more frequently observed in clear cell carcinoma (CCC) than in non-CCC. We evaluated the antitumor activity of cabozantinib, that targets MET.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A gene expression analysis of tumors from human ovarian cancers was carried out by transcriptome sequencing. An in vitro 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay (MTT assay) and in vivo experiments were performed to determine the activity of cabozantinib.RESULTS: The MET levels were higher in tumors with CCC than high-grade serous carcinoma (2.2-fold). Cabozantinib inhibited cell viability and phosphorylation of AKT and MAPK under the treatment of hepatocyte growth factor in RMG-I CCC cells. The tumors removed from mice given cabozantinib of 10 mg/kg weighed 70% less than control on day 15, and the immunohistochemical reactivity of phosphorylated MET was reduced compared with control mice.CONCLUSION: Cabozantinib contributes to tumor reduction, and phosphorylated MET represents an attractive target of CCC. labels: #Adenocarcinoma, Clear Cell#Anilides#Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Female#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Ovarian Neoplasms#Phosphorylation#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Pyridines#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Although pterostilbene, a natural analog of resveratrol, has potent antitumor activity against several human cancer types, the possible inhibitory mechanisms against subtypes of human breast cancer with different hormone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status remain unknown. We investigated the anticancer activity of pterostilbene using three subtypes of breast cancer cell lines. Pterostilbene treatment exhibited a dose-dependent antiproliferative activity, with the greatest growth inhibition observed in triple-negative MDA-MB-468 cells. Although pterostilbene arrested cell-cycle progression at the G0/G1phase regardless of breast cancer subtype, its apoptosis-inducing activity was highly apparent in MDA-MB-468 cells. Pterostilbene induced strong and sustained activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, with concomitant cyclin D1 suppression and p21 up-regulation, and inhibited the phosphorylation of AKT and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), followed by subsequent up-regulation of BAX without affecting B-cell lymphoma-extra large (BCL-xL). Oral administration of pterostilbene significantly suppressed tumor growth in nude mice xenotransplanted with MDA-MB-468 cells. These data suggest a potential role of pterostilbene for prevention and treatment of human breast cancer, especially of triple-negative breast cancer. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Cyclin D1#Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases#Female#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Phosphorylation#Receptor, ErbB-2#Stilbenes#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Eleven piperic acid esters were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis based on their cytotoxicity and tumor-specificity, in order to find their new biological activities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity against four human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and three oral normal mesenchymal cells was determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) method. Tumor specificity (TS) was evaluated by the ratio of the mean 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) against normal cells to that against tumor cell lines. Potency-selectivity expression (PSE) value was calculated by dividing the TS value by CC50against tumor cells. Apoptosis markers were detected by western blot analysis. Physicochemical, structural and quantum-chemical parameters were calculated based on the conformations optimized by force-field minimization.RESULTS: One phenylmethyl ester and five phenylethyl esters showed relatively higher cytotoxicity and tumor specificity, that were significantly modified by introduction of hydroxyl and methoxy groups. On the other hand, phenylpropyl ester, phenylbutyl ester and decyl ester were essentially inactive. (2E,4E)-5-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2,4-pentadienoic acid 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)ethyl ester [4] had the highest TS and PSE values. This compound also stimulated the cleavage of caspase-3, suggesting the induction of apoptosis. TS values were correlated with molecular size, ionization potential, molecular shape, ionization potential and electronegativity. None of the compounds had any anti-HIV activity.CONCLUSION: Chemical modification of the lead compound may be a potential choice for designing a new type of anticancer drugs. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Child#Esters#Fatty Acids, Unsaturated#Female#HIV#Humans#Molecular Structure#Mouth Neoplasms#Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The synergistic combinations of natural products have long been the basis of Traditional Chinese herbal Medicine formulas. In this study, we investigated the synergistic effects of a combination of berberine and evodiamine against human breast cancer MCF-7 cells in vitro and in vivo, and explored its mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cell survival was measured using the MTT assay. Apoptosis-related proteins were observed using western blot analysis. Apoptosis was detected with flow cytometric analysis and by Hoechst 33258 staining. Tumor xenografts were used in vivo.RESULTS: Compared to berberine or evodiamine treatments alone, the combination treatment of berberine (25 \xce\xbcM) and evodiamine (15 \xce\xbcM) synergistically inhibited the proliferation of MCF-7 cells in a time-dependent manner and resulted in the G0/G1phase accumulation of cells that exhibited increased expression levels of the CDK inhibitors p21 and p27 with a concomitant reduction in the expression levels of cell-cycle checkpoint proteins cyclin D1, cyclin E, CDK4, and CDK6. Furthermore, the combination treatment induced apoptosis that was accompanied by increased expression levels of p53 and Bax, reduced expression levels of Bcl-2, activation of caspase-7, and caspase-9, and the cleavage of PARP. The combination of berberine and evodiamine synergistically inhibited tumor growth in vivo in MCF-7 human breast cancer xenografts.CONCLUSION: Combination of berberine and evodiamine acts synergistically to suppress the proliferation of MCF-7 cells by inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, illustrating the potential synergistic and combinatorial application of bioactive natural products. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Berberine#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Quinazolines#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Seventeen aurones were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis based on their cytotoxicity and tumor-specificity, in order to find their new biological activities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity against three human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and three oral mesenchymal cells was determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) method. Tumor specificity (TS) was evaluated by the ratio of the mean 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) against normal cells to that against tumor cell lines. Potency-selectivity expression (PSE) value was calculated by dividing TS by CC50against tumor cells. Physicochemical, structural and quantum-chemical parameters were calculated based on the conformations optimized by force-field minimization.RESULTS: Sixteen out of seventeen aurones showed relatively higher cytotoxicity and tumor specificity. Among them, (2Z)-2-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)methylene]-3(2H)-benzofuranone [7] showed the highest TS value and PSE values, comparable with those of doxorubicin and higher than 5-FU, respectively. TS values were correlated with molecular shape, size and polarizability rather than the types of substituted groups.CONCLUSION: Chemical modification of the lead compound may be a potential choice for designing a new type of anticancer drugs. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzofurans#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Proliferation#Child#Female#Humans#Molecular Structure#Mouth Neoplasms#Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic, is now increasingly used as an off-label indication for the management of cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). However, how olanzapine affects cancer cells per se remains poorly understood.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of olanzapine treatment and survivin knockdown, alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic agents, on survivin expression and cell viability were investigated in human cancer cell lines.RESULTS: Olanzapine reduced survivin expression in lung and pancreatic cancer stem cell (CSC) lines and sensitized them to chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, and cisplatin in a survivin expression-dependent manner. Olanzapine also reduced survivin expression and chemosensitized serum-cultured, non-CSC ovarian cancer cells that expressed survivin.CONCLUSION: Olanzapine may benefit cancer patients not only as an antiemetic for CINV, but also by enhancing the effects of chemotherapeutic agents through down-regulation of survivin, which has been implicated in multidrug chemoresistance. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzodiazepines#Cell Proliferation#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Humans#Inhibitor of Apoptosis Proteins#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Cancer cells consume high amounts of glucose to produce ATP and molecules entering biosynthesis. Numerous experimental studies have demonstrated that glucose deprivation and/or glycolysis inhibition arrest cancer cell growth and may increase the efficiency of cytotoxic drugs. In contrast, increasing glycolysis in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) activates these cells that destroy cancer cells. We propose to increase the efficiency of chemotherapy by modulating glucose intake during the course of chemotherapy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Glucose and caloric intake should be drastically reduced the day before and during chemotherapy administration to deprive cancer cells of ATP and molecules required to repair cytotoxic lesions. Few hours after chemotherapy, glucose and caloric intake should be drastically increased for few days to promote the activation of TILs that reinforce the destruction of cancer cells.RESULTS: This strategy could improve the results of chemotherapy by first enhancing cytotoxic stress against tumor cells and then promoting activation of the anti-cancer immune response.CONCLUSION: The modulation of glucose intake during chemotherapy should be tested clinically. The proposed scheme is simple, surely easier to follow than a strict chronic diet, and should avoid weight loss. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Glucose#Glycolysis#Humans#Lymphocytes, Tumor-Infiltrating#Neoplasms#Oxidation-Reduction'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Silica nanoparticles (nano-SiO2) are widely used in many industrial areas and there is much controversy surrounding cytotoxic effects of such nanoparticles. In order to determine the toxicity and possible molecular mechanisms involved, we conducted several tests with two breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T.MATERIALS AND METHODS: After exposure to nano-SiO2, growth, apoptosis, motility of breast cancer cells were monitored. In addition, modulation of signal transduction induced by nano-SiO2was detected through western blot analysis.RESULTS: Treatment of nano-SiO2repressed the growth of breast cancer cell lines. It also increased apoptosis and reduced cell motility. Moreover, exposure to nano-SiO2significantly disturbed the dimerization of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), followed by down-regulation of its downstream cellular sarcoma kinase (c-SRC) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling cascades.CONCLUSION: Nano-SiO2has a cytotoxic effect on MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T breast cancer cells via modulation of EGFR signaling cascades. labels: #Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Nanoparticles#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction#Silicon Dioxide#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MYD88), which activates the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB) pathway, is important for the growth of lymphoma and leukaemia cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of ST2825, a synthetic peptidomimetic compound which inhibits MYD88 homodimerization, on their growth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seven lymphoma and leukaemia cell lines including TMD8, a B-cell lymphoma line with MYD88-activating mutation, were treated with ST2825 and analysed for cell proliferation and expression of NF-\xce\xbaB signalling-related molecules.RESULTS: ST2825 suppressed the growth of all cell lines by inducing apoptosis and down-regulating phosphorylation of NF-\xce\xbaB pathway components inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase (I\xce\xbaB) and reticuloendotheliosis oncogene A (RelA), as well as of MYD88 activator Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK), suggesting that MYD88 may affect BTK activity. ST2825 effects were specific as MYD88-targeting siRNA also suppressed phosphorylation of NF-\xce\xbaB signalling proteins and BTK in TMD8 cells.CONCLUSION: ST2825 may be a novel drug targeting not only B-lymphoid malignancies with MYD88 mutations, but also lymphoma and leukaemia with wild-type MYD88. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Heterocyclic Compounds, 2-Ring#Humans#Leukemia#Lymphoma#Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88#Spiro Compounds#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest human cancers. In the current study, we investigated the possibility of a new treatment strategy using a combination of the new fluoroquinolone, enoxacin, and mild ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation. Enoxacin with UVA irradiation increased the number of annexin V-positive (apoptotic) pancreatic cancer cells in time- and concentration-dependent manners, whereas alone neither had these effects. In addition, enoxacin with UVA irradiation induced cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in AsPC1 human pancreatic cancer cells. Moreover, the singlet oxygen scavengers, histidine and sodium azide, and the hydroxyl radical scavenger, mannitol, significantly suppressed apoptosis induced by enoxacin and UVA irradiation, respectively. These results suggest that UVA irradiation activates enoxacin, after which activated enoxacin induces apoptosis of AsPC1 cells through generation of reactive oxygen species. Therefore, the combination of enoxacin with mild UVA irradiation may be a useful method for treating pancreatic cancer. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Enoxacin#Humans#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases#Reactive Oxygen Species#Topoisomerase II Inhibitors#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Ultraviolet Rays'
b'AIMS: Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs) are usually diagnosed in an advanced stage. Most patients with PanNETs die of metastasis. Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) is a strong stimulator of angiogenesis and tumor metastasis. We aimed to investigate the effect of MART-10 [19-nor-2\xce\xb1-(3-hydroxypropyl)-1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3], a 1\xce\xb1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3 (1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3) analog, on PanNET cell metastasis after VEGF-A stimulation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Migration and invasion assays, western blot, and immunofluorescent staining were applied in this study.RESULTS: VEGF-A increased PanNET cell migration and invasion, which was attenuated by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10. VEGF-A treatment stimulated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of PanNET cells. During this process, expression of snail family transcriptional repressor 1 and 2, and fibronectin was up-regulated. 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10 counteracted VEGF-A-induced EMT. In addition, expression of neuropilin 1, a key protein in VEGF-A signaling, was down-regulated by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10. Furthermore, synthesis of F-actin was increased by VEGF-A and reduced by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10.CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that MART-10 could be deemed a promising drug for PanNET treatment. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cholecalciferol#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Insulinoma#Rats#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Numerous evidence has shown that PEITC and BITC inhibit cancer cell migration and invasion. In this study, we investigated the anti-metastatic mechanisms of PEITC and BITC in human melanoma cancer A375.S2 cells in vitro.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used a cell viability assay, an in-vitro scratch wound healing assay, a transwell assay for cell migration and invasion, a gelatin zymography assay, western blotting and EMSA to examine the anti-metastatic mechanisms of PEITC and BITC in A375.S2 cells.RESULTS: Sublethal concentrations of PEITC (0, 1, 2 and 2.5 \xce\xbcM) and BITC (0, 0.5, 1 and 2 \xce\xbcM) inhibited mobility, migration and invasion of A375.S2 cells that were assayed by wound healing and Transwell filter. PEITC and BITC inhibited MMP-2 activity in A375.S2 cells, as assessed by gelatin zymography assay. Results from western blotting indicated that PEITC (2.5 \xce\xbcM) and BITC (2 \xce\xbcM) decreased the levels of p-p38 following 24 and 48 h treatment. PEITC (1-2.5 \xce\xbcM) reduced the levels of p-JNK1/2 proteins following 48-h treatment but BITC increased p-JNK1/2 levels following 24-h treatment. PEITC (2.5 \xce\xbcM) reduced the levels of p-ERK1/2 proteins following 48-h treatment but BITC (0.5-2 \xce\xbcM) increased p-ERK1/2 levels following 24- and 48-h treatment. PEITC and BITC affect cell migration and invasion of A375.S2 cells via MAPK pathway. PEITC and BITC inhibited MMP-2 activity. PEITC increased NF-\xce\xbaB expression but BITC decreased NF-\xce\xbaB expression in the nucleus. Furthermore, NF-\xce\xbaB p65 binding to DNA was decreased following 2.5 \xce\xbcM PEITC treatment, but increased following treatment with 1-2 \xce\xbcM. However, 0.5-2 \xce\xbcM BITC treatment decreased the binding of NF-\xce\xbaB to DNA in A375.S2 cells, as assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) assay.CONCLUSION: Based on these observations, we suggest that PEITC and BITC can be used as anti-metastastic agents of human melanoma cells in the future. labels: #Anticarcinogenic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Isothiocyanates#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Melanoma#NF-kappa B#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND: Mifepristone has gained great interest in its potential as a novel agent against human cancers, including prostate cancer (PCa). However, recent clinical trials using mifepristone in PCa and other cancers have been disappointing. We evaluated the in vitro and in vivo activities of mifepristone, in combination with docetaxel and enzalutamide, against bone metastatic castration-resistant PCa.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of mifepristone, alone or in combination with docetaxel or enzalutamide, on PCa cell viability, in vitro, were determined by the colorimetric assay. Intratibial model of C4-2-Luc tumors in athymic nude mice was used to evaluate the in vivo efficacy of mifepristone alone or in combination with docetaxel or enzalutamide. Tumor growth in mouse bone was assessed by serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and radiography.RESULTS: Although mifepristone exhibits a certain degree of synergism with docetaxel or enzalutamide in cell culture, statistical analyses showed that combination regimens fail to demonstrate effectiveness in suppressing the skeletal growth of PCa and enhancing the in vivo efficacy of docetaxel or enzalutamide in athymic nude mice (p>0.05).CONCLUSION: These results provide the first pre-clinical evidence suggesting that mifepristone may not effectively inhibit bone metastatic PCa, either as a single agent or combined with standard chemotherapy and androgen-deprivation therapy. This report may raise concerns over the clinical use of mifepristone in the management of advanced PCa. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Bone Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Hormone Antagonists#Humans#Male#Mice#Mifepristone#Phenylthiohydantoin#Prostatic Neoplasms, Castration-Resistant#Taxoids#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Lactoperoxidase (LPO) is an antimicrobial protein present in milk, saliva, gastric secretions, tears and upper respiratory tract secretions. LPO constitutes an important enzyme of the human immune defense system. However, LPO has also been suggested to be involved in breast cancer etiology through production of reactive free radicals and activation of carcinogenic aromatic compounds. Aromatic compounds are generally highly lipophilic and thus accumulate in highly fatty breast tissues. The aromatic compounds 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) and 4,4'-diaminobiphenyl (BZ) are known to have carcinogenic properties. LPO catalyzes their oxidation and converts them into reactive products which bind to DNA and form adducts. These DNA adducts subsequently lead to breast cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The crystal structure of LPO was obtained from Protein Data Bank. Structures of ABP and BZ were retrieved from PubChem database. Induced Fit Docking was performed using glide module from Schrodinger.RESULTS: The present study reports the structural binding of ABP and BZ with LPO using in silico approaches. The amino acid residues of LPO involved in the binding with the two aromatic ligands were characterized and binding energy values were calculated.CONCLUSION: Both ABP and BZ were placed in the substrate binding site present in the distal heme cavity of LPO with good affinity. The binding mode mimicked that of the natural substrate since these compounds did not disturb the water molecule that plays an important role in the oxidation reaction. Thus, the water molecule is potentially available for facilitating the subsequent activation of the aromatic amines to reactive species which may form DNA adducts leading to breast cancer. labels: #Aminobiphenyl Compounds#Binding Sites#Breast Neoplasms#Carcinogens#DNA Adducts#Female#Free Radicals#Humans#Lactoperoxidase#Models, Molecular#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Oxidation-Reduction#Protein Conformation"
b'AIM: We investigated the effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT) using radachlorin on invasion, vascular formation and apoptosis by targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in the HEC-1-A endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: To investigate the apoptotic pathway, we performed the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and western blot analysis. We also evaluated the effects of PDT on tubular capillary formation in and invasion by HEC-1-A cells with a tube formation assay, invasion assay, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) assay, and western blot analysis.RESULTS: PDT had anticancer effects on HEC-1-A through activation of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis via caspase-9 and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). PDT also inhibited tubular capillary formation in and invasion by HEC-1-A under VEGF pretreatment, that resulted from down-regulation of VEGFR2, EGFR, Ras homolog gene family/ member A (RhoA) and PGE2. These results are indicative of the specificity of radachlorin-mediated PDT to VEGF.CONCLUSION: The major advantage of radachlorin-mediated PDT is its selectivity for cancer tissue while maintaining adjacent normal endometrial tissue. Therefore, radachlorin-mediated PDT might offer high anticancer efficacy for endometrial adenocarcinoma and an especially useful modality for preserving fertility. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Drug Combinations#Endometrial Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Light#Photochemotherapy#Photosensitizing Agents#Porphyrins#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#rhoA GTP-Binding Protein'
b'BACKGROUND: A newly-synthesized derivative of renieramycin M (RM), an anticancer lead compound isolated from the blue sponge Xestospongia sp., hydroquinone 5-O-cinnamoyl ester (CIN-RM), was investigated here for its activity against non-small cell lung cancer cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity effects of CIN-RM and RM on H292 lung cancer cells were determined by the MTT assay. We also investigated the mechanism of CIN-RM-mediated apoptosis and mechanism of action of this compound by western blotting.RESULTS: CIN-RM showed more potent cytotoxicity than its parental compound (RM) against H292 lung cancer cells. At concentrations of 15-60 \xce\xbcM, CIN-RM significantly induced apoptosis by increasing expression of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and activation of caspase-3 and -9. For up-stream mechanism, CIN-RM mediated apoptosis through a p53-dependent mechanism, that consequently down-regulated anti-apoptotic B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2), while increasing the level of pro-apoptotic BCL2-associated X (BAX). In addition, phosphorylation of pro-survival protein AKT was found to be dramatically reduced.CONCLUSION: This study revealed the potential of CIN-RM for apoptosis induction and in the development of a novel anticancer agent. labels: #Apoptosis#Apoptosis Inducing Factor#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Caspase 3#Caspase 9#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Hydroquinones#Lung Neoplasms#Signal Transduction#Tetrahydroisoquinolines'
b'Colchicine is an alkaloid widely used for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, such as gout. It suppresses cell division by inhibiting mitosis. We investigated the anticancer effects of colchicine on human hypopharyngeal cancer cells and the mechanisms underlying its anticancer effects. XTT cell proliferation assay showed that colchicine inhibited the growth and proliferation of human hypopharyngeal cancer cells (FaDu and SNU1041) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Colchicine also inhibited the migration, invasion, and adhesion of hypopharyngeal cancer cells in a dose-dependent manner. The levels of mRNA expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) decreased after treatment with colchicine. Further investigation revealed that colchicine inhibited the phosphorylation of the FAK/SRC complex and paxillin. Tumor volume ratios in colchicine-treated mice (0.1 mg/kg, every 2 days for 14 days) increased less than in control mice. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing that colchicine can suppress cell invasion, migration, and adhesion through reduced expression of MMP9, the uPA system, and the FAK/SRC complex. Colchicine has the potential to prevent disease progression in hypopharyngeal cancer and may have application as an adjunctive treatment. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Colchicine#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms#Matrix Metalloproteinase 9#Mice#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Urokinase-Type Plasminogen Activator#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Compound Batatasin III isolated from Dendrobium draconis Rchb.f. was tested for the possible anti-cancer activities including anti-proliferative, anti-migration and invasion in human non-small lung cancer H460 cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of Batatasin III on viability and proliferation of H460 cells was investigated by the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MTT) assay. Migration and invasion assays were performed. Filopodia formation was determined by phalloidin-rhodamine staining. The hallmark signaling proteins in regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), proliferation, and migration were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Batatasin III at concentrations lower than 100 \xce\xbcM has no cytotoxic effects. The compound at 25-100 \xce\xbcM exhibited anti-proliferative activity at 48 h after treatment. Regarding cell motility, Batatasin III decreased migration and invasion of cells. Filopodia were found to be significantly reduced in Batatasin III treated cells. These effects correlated with the results from western blot analysis showing that the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase on Try397 (p-FAK (Try397)), the active protein kinase B (AKT), and cell division cycle 42 (CDC42) were significantly reduced. Besides, Batatasin III significantly suppressed EMT indicated by the decrease of N-cadherin and Vimentin, and up-regulation of E-cadherin.CONCLUSION: Batatasin III has anti-cancer activities; inhibits cancer migration and invasion by suppressing EMT. Our findings establish Batatasin III as a potential compound for further studies aimed at finding a better, more effective treatment approach for lung cancer. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Down-Regulation#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Focal Adhesion Kinase 1#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction#Stilbenes'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) inhibitors have recently been tested as anticancer drugs in a variety of carcinomas. Yet, there exist only few reports about HSP90 inhibitor and its thepeutic effect on liposarcoma. The therapeutic effects of HSP90 inhibitors have been mainly observed in oncogenic and tumor angiogenic signaling cascades by observing tumor growth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the the LPS 246 liposarcoma cell line and GS-076 PDC (patient-derived cell lines). On these, we performed cell viability assays and migration assays under treatment with the HSP90 inhibitor, 17AAG. For analyzing angiogenesis factor, we used quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) after treating cells with the 17AAG inhibitor. Regarding in vivo assay, we made the tumor model in immune-deficient mouse and compared the tumor size of drug-treated group at each time point with controls. For sequestering analysis of angiogenesis factor in vivo, we performed immuno-fluorescence (IF) staining on tumor tissue.RESULTS: Through cell viability, migration assay and qPCR about angiogenesis factor, we demonstrated the anti-oncogenic and anti-angiogenic effects of an HSP90 inhibitor on a liposarcoma cell line and a patient-derived primary cell model (PDC). Also, the HSP90 inhibitor 17AAG effectively inhibited the activity of protein kinase B (AKT) and blocked extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity. Hence, 17AAG effectively disrupted the oncogenic signaling cascade and substantially inhibited tumor growth in vitro. In an LPS 863 cell xenograft mouse model treated with 17AAG, we observed that tumor size was decreasing, as well as down-regulation of the expression levels of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), CD31 and signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3).CONCLUSION: 17AAG reduced the activity of AKT, ERK, VEGF and STAT3 in oncogenic and angiogenic pathways in liposarcoma PDC models derived from patients' tissues and cancer cell lines. labels: #Angiogenesis Inhibitors#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Benzoquinones#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Lactams, Macrocyclic#Liposarcoma#Mice#STAT3 Transcription Factor#Signal Transduction#Tumor Burden#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism by which agmatine sulfate induces an anti-metastatic effect in human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells, by affecting matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs).MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the experiments, we used a non-toxic concentration of agmatine, below 512 \xce\xbcM, that was determined using an MTT assay. The effect of agmatine sulfate on metastasis was gelatin zymography, western blot, immunofluorescence staining and cell invasion assay.RESULTS: Agmatine sulfate inhibited MMP-2 activity stimulated by phenazine methosulfate (PMS). Furthermore, the expression level of MMP-2 stimulated by PMS, was decreased, but the expression level of TIMP-1 was increased in the presence of agmatine sulfate. Moreover, it was observed that the expression levels of ERK and p38 were increased, but those of PI3K and Akt-1 associated with the modulation of MMP-2 were decreased in this study. Furthermore, agmatine sulfate decreased the invasion level of human fibrosarcoma cells stimulated by VEGF.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that agmatine sulfate could inhibit metastasis through inhibition of MMP-2 via the PI3K/Akt-1 signaling pathway. labels: #Agmatine#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Fibrosarcoma#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction'
b"This study was designed to evaluate the effect of ovariectomy on nutrikinetics of genistein metabolites. To characterize the time-dependent changes in genistein metabolite concentrations, we identified 13 genistein metabolites using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The nutrikinetics of the individual metabolites at different time points were analyzed. Nutrikinetic analysis showed that genistein, genistein 4'-glucuronide, genistein 7-glucuronide, 3-hydroxygenistein, and hippuric acid showed relatively high bioavailability in the sham group compared to that in the ovariectomy group, suggesting that ovariectomy likely results in lower genistein bioavailability. These results may be related to alteration of gut microbiota by ovariectomy. The relative abundance of species of the Parabacteroides, Dorea, and Butyricimonas genera, and Desulfovibrionaceae_unclassified, Lachnospiraceae_unclassified, and Rikenellaceae_unclassified families increased in the ovariectomy group while the relative abundance of 523_7_unclassified and Y52_unclassified_unclassified increased in the sham group. These results suggest that gut microbiota alteration by ovariectomy may affect genistein bioavailability. labels: #Animals#Biological Availability#Chromatography, Liquid#Female#Genistein#Mass Spectrometry#Mice#Ovariectomy"
b'Circadian clocks drive biological rhythms with a period of approximately 24 hours and keep in time with the outside world through daily resetting by environmental cues. While this external entrainment has been extensively investigated in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the role of internal systemic rhythms, including daily fluctuations in core temperature or circulating hormones remains debated. Here, we show that lactating mice, which exhibit dampened systemic rhythms, possess normal molecular clockwork but impaired rhythms in both heat shock response gene expression and electrophysiological output in their SCN. This suggests that body rhythms regulate SCN activity downstream of the clock. Mathematical modeling predicts that systemic feedback upon the SCN functions as an internal oscillator that accounts for in vivo and ex vivo observations. Thus we are able to propose a new bottom-up hierarchical organization of circadian timekeeping in mammals, based on the interaction in the SCN between clock-dependent and system-driven oscillators. labels: #Animals#Circadian Rhythm#Female#Lactation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Suprachiasmatic Nucleus'
b'INTRODUCTION: Intrathecal immunoglobulin G (IgG) and oligoclonal bands (OCBs) are the most consistent and characteristic features of Multiple Sclerosis (MS). OCBs in MS are considered products of clonally expanded B cells in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), representing the sum of contributions from B cells in the brain. However, large amounts of IgG can be eluted from MS plaques in which lymphocytes are absent, and there is no correlation between levels of plaque-associated IgG and the presence of lymphocytes. It is calculated that it would take 3.2 billion lymphocytes to generate such large amounts of intrathecal IgG (30 mg in 500 ml CSF) in MS patients. Therefore, circulating lymphocytes in CSF could only account for<0.1% of the extra IgG in MS.METHODS: We analyzed clinical laboratory parameters from sera and CSF of 115 patients including 91 patients with MS and 24 patients with other inflammatory central nervous system (CNS) disorders (IC). We investigated the relationship between oligoclonal bands, IgG antibodies, CSF cells, IgG Index, albumin, and total protein.RESULTS: MS patients have significantly elevated serum concentrations of IgG antibodies, albumin, and total protein, lower levels of lymphocytes, albumin, and total protein in the cerebrospinal fluid, but no difference in CSF IgG concentration compared to those with other inflammatory neurological disorders. Furthermore, in MS there was no linear relationship between the numbers of OCBs, CSF lymphocytes, CSF IgG, and IgG Index, and between serum IgG and serum albumin, but significant correlation between IgG in CSF and serum, and between CSF IgG and CSF albumin.CONCLUSION: There are unique differences between MS and patients with other inflammatory neurological disorders. Our data suggest that in MS patient (a) B cells and their products in the CSF may not be the sole source of intrathecal IgG; (b) oligoclonal bands may not be the products of single B cell clones in the CSF; and (c) there is a strong connection between serum components in the peripheral circulation and the central nervous system. labels: #Adult#Blood Proteins#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Lymphocytes#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Oligoclonal Bands'
b'Global analyses of bird communities along elevation gradients suggest that bird diversity on arid mountains is primarily limited by water availability, not temperature or altitude. However, the mechanism by which water availability, and subsequently primary productivity, increases bird diversity is still unclear. Here we evaluate two possible mechanisms from species-energy theory. The more individuals hypothesis proposes that a higher availability of resources increases the total number of individuals that can be supported, and therefore the greater number of species that will be sampled. By contrast, the more specialization hypothesis proposes that increasing resource availability will permit specialists to exploit otherwise rare resources, thus increasing total diversity. We used 5 years of surveys of grassland songbird communities along an elevational gradient in British Columbia, Canada, to distinguish between these hypotheses. Vegetation changed markedly in composition along the gradient and contrary to the expectations of the more specialization hypothesis, bird community composition was remarkably constant. However, both total abundance and species richness of birds increased with increasing water availability to plants. When we used rarefaction to correct species richness for differences in total abundance, much of the increase in bird diversity was lost, consistent with the expectations of the more individuals hypothesis. Furthermore, high species richness was associated with reductions in territory size of common bird species, rather than the fine-scale spatial partitioning of the landscape. This suggests that bird diversity increases when greater resource availability allows higher densities rather than greater habitat specialization. These results help explain a pervasive global pattern in bird diversity on arid mountains, and suggest that in such landscapes conservation of grassland birds is strongly linked to climate and hydrology. labels: #Animals#Biodiversity#British Columbia#Grassland#Songbirds'
b'There are differences in sleep duration between Blacks/African-Americans and Whites/European-Americans. Recently, we found differences between these ancestry groups in the circadian system, such as circadian period and the magnitude of phase shifts. Here we document the role of ancestry on sleep and cognitive performance before and after a 9-h advance in the sleep/wake schedule similar to flying east or having a large advance in sleep times due to shiftwork, both of which produce extreme circadian misalignment. Non-Hispanic African and European-Americans (N = 20 and 17 respectively, aged 21-43 years) were scheduled to four baseline days each with 8 h time in bed based on their habitual sleep schedule. This sleep/wake schedule was then advanced 9 h earlier for three days. Sleep was monitored using actigraphy. During the last two baseline/aligned days and the first two advanced/misaligned days, beginning 2 h after waking, cognitive performance was measured every 3 h using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) test battery. Mixed model ANOVAs assessed the effects of ancestry (African-American or European-American) and condition (baseline/aligned or advanced/misaligned) on sleep and cognitive performance. There was decreased sleep and impaired performance in both ancestry groups during the advanced/misaligned days compared to the baseline/aligned days. In addition, African-Americans obtained less sleep than European-Americans, especially on the first two days of circadian misalignment. Cognitive performance did not differ between African-Americans and European-Americans during baseline days. During the two advanced/misaligned days, however, African-Americans tended to perform slightly worse compared to European-Americans, particularly at times corresponding to the end of the baseline sleep episodes. Advancing the sleep/wake schedule, creating extreme circadian misalignment, had a greater impact on the sleep of African-Americans than European-Americans. Ancestry differences in sleep appear to be exacerbated when the sleep/wake schedule is advanced, which may have implications for individuals undertaking shiftwork and transmeridian travel. labels: #Adult#African Americans#European Continental Ancestry Group#Humans#Sleep#Sleep Disorders, Circadian Rhythm#Wakefulness#Young Adult'
b'Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) lung disease is increasing globally. Although the etiological epidemiology of NTM is different across regions, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) is the leading cause of NTM lung disease in most countries, including mainland Japan. Okinawa is located in the southernmost region of Japan and is the only prefecture categorized as a subtropical region in Japan, it is therefore likely the etiological epidemiology of NTM lung disease is different from mainland Japan. From 2009 to 2015, the medical records of patients, with respiratory specimens positive for NTMs, visiting or admitted to two Okinawan hospitals, were retrospectively analyzed. NTM lung disease cases were defined according to the American Thoracic Society criteria and patient epidemiology and clinical information were evaluated. Results indicate four hundred sixteen patients had bacterial cultures positive for NTM. The most common NTM was M. abscessus complex (MABC) (n = 127; 30.5%), followed by M. intracellulare (n = 85; 20.4%). NTM lung disease was diagnosed in 114 patients. Of these cases, MABC was most common (n = 41; 36.0%), followed by M. intracellulare (n = 31; 27.2%). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and tracheostomy patients were more likely to develop MABC than MAC lung disease. Multivariate analysis showed a probable association between COPD and MABC lung disease. Chest computed tomography (CT) evaluation revealed bronchiectasis, nodules, and consolidation were less frequently observed in MABC patients compared with MAC patients. Our data suggests Okinawa may be one of the few places where MABC is the predominant pathogen causing NTM lung disease and our results add new insight to MABC lung disease, which is not yet well understood. labels: #Hospitals#Humans#Japan#Mycobacterium Infections, Nontuberculous#Radiography, Thoracic#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Tropical Climate'
b'Depressive pathology, which includes both heightened negative affect (e.g., anxiety) and reduced positive affect (e.g., anhedonia), is known to be associated with sub-optimal decision-making, particularly in uncertain environments. Here, we use a computational approach to quantify and disambiguate how individual differences in these affective measures specifically relate to different aspects of learning and decision-making in reward-based choice behavior. Fifty-three individuals with a range of depressed mood completed a two-armed bandit task, in which they choose between two arms with fixed but unknown reward rates. The decision-making component, which chooses among options based on current expectations about reward rates, is modeled by two different decision policies: a learning-independent Win-stay/Lose-shift (WSLS) policy that ignores all previous experiences except the last trial, and Softmax, which prefers the arm with the higher expected reward. To model the learning component for the Softmax choice policy, we use a Bayesian inference model, which updates estimated reward rates based on the observed history of trial outcomes. Softmax with Bayesian learning better fits the behavior of 55% of the participants, while the others are better fit by a learning-independent WSLS strategy. Among Softmax "users", those with higher anhedonia are less likely to choose the option estimated to be most rewarding. Moreover, the Softmax parameter mediates the inverse relationship between anhedonia and overall monetary gains. On the other hand, among WSLS "users", higher state anxiety correlates with increasingly better ability of WSLS, relative to Softmax, to explain subjects\' trial-by-trial choices. In summary, there is significant variability among individuals in their reward-based, exploratory decision-making, and this variability is at least partly mediated in a very specific manner by affective attributes, such as hedonic tone and state anxiety. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anhedonia#Anxiety#Decision Making#Depression#Female#Humans#Male#Reward#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: The management of childhood infections remains inadequate in resource-limited countries, resulting in high mortality and irrational use of antimicrobials. Current disease management tools, such as the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) algorithm, rely solely on clinical signs and have not made use of available point-of-care tests (POCTs) that can help to identify children with severe infections and children in need of antibiotic treatment. e-POCT is a novel electronic algorithm based on current evidence; it guides clinicians through the entire consultation and recommends treatment based on a few clinical signs and POCT results, some performed in all patients (malaria rapid diagnostic test, hemoglobin, oximeter) and others in selected subgroups only (C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, glucometer). The objective of this trial was to determine whether the clinical outcome of febrile children managed by the e-POCT tool was non-inferior to that of febrile children managed by a validated electronic algorithm derived from IMCI (ALMANACH), while reducing the proportion with antibiotic prescription.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We performed a randomized (at patient level, blocks of 4), controlled non-inferiority study among children aged 2-59 months presenting with acute febrile illness to 9 outpatient clinics in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. In parallel, routine care was documented in 2 health centers. The primary outcome was the proportion of clinical failures (development of severe symptoms, clinical pneumonia on/after day 3, or persistent symptoms at day 7) by day 7 of follow-up. Non-inferiority would be declared if the proportion of clinical failures with e-POCT was no worse than the proportion of clinical failures with ALMANACH, within statistical variability, by a margin of 3%. The secondary outcomes included the proportion with antibiotics prescribed on day 0, primary referrals, and severe adverse events by day 30 (secondary hospitalizations and deaths). We enrolled 3,192 patients between December 2014 and February 2016 into the randomized study; 3,169 patients (e-POCT: 1,586; control [ALMANACH]: 1,583) completed the intervention and day 7 follow-up. Using e-POCT, in the per-protocol population, the absolute proportion of clinical failures was 2.3% (37/1,586), as compared with 4.1% (65/1,583) in the ALMANACH arm (risk difference of clinical failure -1.7, 95% CI -3.0, -0.5), meeting the prespecified criterion for non-inferiority. In a non-prespecified superiority analysis, we observed a 43% reduction in the relative risk of clinical failure when using e-POCT compared to ALMANACH (risk ratio [RR]0.57, 95% CI 0.38, 0.85, p = 0.005). The proportion of severe adverse events was 0.6% in the e-POCT arm compared with 1.5% in the ALMANACH arm (RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.20, 0.87, p = 0.02). The proportion of antibiotic prescriptions was substantially lower, 11.5% compared to 29.7% (RR 0.39, 95% CI 0.33, 0.45, p<0.001). Using e-POCT, the most common indication for antibiotic prescription was severe disease (57%, 103/182 prescriptions), while it was non-severe respiratory infections using the control algorithm (ALMANACH) (70%, 330/470 prescriptions). The proportion of clinical failures among the 544 children in the routine care cohort was 4.6% (25/544); 94.9% (516/544) of patients received antibiotics on day 0, and 1.1% (6/544) experienced severe adverse events. e-POCT achieved a 49% reduction in the relative risk of clinical failure compared to routine care (RR 0.51, 95% CI 0.31, 0.84, p = 0.007) and lowered antibiotic prescriptions to 11.5% from 94.9% (p<0.001). Though this safety study was an important first step to evaluate e-POCT, its true utility should be evaluated through future implementation studies since adherence to the algorithm will be an important factor in making use of e-POCT's advantages in terms of clinical outcome and antibiotic prescription.CONCLUSIONS: e-POCT, an innovative electronic algorithm using host biomarker POCTs, including C-reactive protein and procalcitonin, has the potential to improve the clinical outcome of children with febrile illnesses while reducing antibiotic use through improved identification of children with severe infections, and better targeting of children in need of antibiotic prescription.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02225769. labels: #Age of Onset#Algorithms#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Biomarkers#Child, Preschool#Clinical Decision-Making#Communicable Diseases#Decision Support Techniques#Diagnosis, Computer-Assisted#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Fever#Heart Rate#Humans#Infant#Male#Mobile Applications#Nutritional Status#Patient Readmission#Patient Selection#Point-of-Care Systems#Point-of-Care Testing#Predictive Value of Tests#Reproducibility of Results#Respiration#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Smartphone#Tanzania"
b'There are limited real-world data on prevalence and predictors of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) prolongation beyond one year after acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We have explored such issue in the START ANTIPLATELET Registry, which is a prospective, observational, multicenter, Italian registry performed in seven Italian cardiology institutions including patients admitted for ACS and followed up to one year. Out of a total population of 840 ACS patients, 596 patients had completed 12-month follow-up being on DAPT. Decision to prolong DAPT beyond one year was taken in 79 patients (13%), whereas in 517 patients DAPT was stopped. The strongest predictors of DAPT continuation were a new cardiovascular events after the index admission event (OR 3.3, 95% CI 1.4-7.7), no bleeding complications (OR 3.2, 95% CI 1.2-8.3) and no anemia during one-year follow-up (OR 2.6, 95% CI 1.1-5.9); other independent predictors were renal failure (OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.3-5.0) and peripheral artery disease (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.1-3.0). The choice of DAPT prolongation was not correlated with younger ager, presence of diabetes mellitus, coronary angioplasty as initial treatment strategy or type of implanted stent (drug-eluting vs bare metal). In conclusion, this study provides a real-world snapshot on the factors influencing the option to continue DAPT beyond one year after ACS; a low bleeding risk seems to influence the choice to prolong DAPT more than a high ischemic risk. labels: #Acute Coronary Syndrome#Aged#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Italy#Male#Middle Aged#Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors#Registries'
b'To identify suitable cell lines for a mimetic system of in vivo blood-brain barrier (BBB) for drug permeability assessment, we characterized two immortalized cell lines, ECV304 and bEnd3 in the respect of the tightness, tight junction proteins, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) function and discriminative brain penetration. The ECV304 monoculture achieved higher transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) and lower permeability to Lucifer yellow than bEnd3. However, co-culture with rat glioma C6 cells impaired the integrity of ECV304 and bEnd3 cell layers perhaps due to the heterogeneity among C6 cells in inducing BBB characteristics. The immunostaining of ZO-1 delivered distinct bands along cell borders on both cell lines while those of occludin and claudin-5 were diffused and weak. P-gp functionality was only proved in bEnd3 by Rhodamine 123 (R123) uptake assay. A permeability test of reference compounds displayed a similar rank order (digoxin<R123<quinidine, verapamil<propranolol) in ECV304 and bEnd3 cells. In comparison with bEnd3, ECV304 developed tighter barrier for the passage of reference compounds and higher discrimination between transcellular and paracellular transport. However, the monoculture models of ECV304 and bEnd3 fail to achieve the sufficient tightness of in vitro BBB permeability models with high TEER and evident immunostaining of tight junction proteins. Further strategies to enhance the paracellular tightness of both cell lines to mimic in vivo BBB tight barrier deserve to be conducted. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B, Member 1#Animals#Blood-Brain Barrier#Cell Line, Transformed#Coculture Techniques#In Vitro Techniques#Permeability#Rats'
b'A fully-automated method based on graph shortest path, graph cut and neutrosophic (NS) sets is presented for fluid segmentation in OCT volumes for exudative age related macular degeneration (EAMD) subjects. The proposed method includes three main steps: 1) The inner limiting membrane (ILM) and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) layers are segmented using proposed methods based on graph shortest path in NS domain. A flattened RPE boundary is calculated such that all three types of fluid regions, intra-retinal, sub-retinal and sub-RPE, are located above it. 2) Seed points for fluid (object) and tissue (background) are initialized for graph cut by the proposed automated method. 3) A new cost function is proposed in kernel space, and is minimized with max-flow/min-cut algorithms, leading to a binary segmentation. Important properties of the proposed steps are proven and quantitative performance of each step is analyzed separately. The proposed method is evaluated using a publicly available dataset referred as Optima and a local dataset from the UMN clinic. For fluid segmentation in 2D individual slices, the proposed method outperforms the previously proposed methods by 18%, 21% with respect to the dice coefficient and sensitivity, respectively, on the Optima dataset, and by 16%, 11% and 12% with respect to the dice coefficient, sensitivity and precision, respectively, on the local UMN dataset. Finally, for 3D fluid volume segmentation, the proposed method achieves true positive rate (TPR) and false positive rate (FPR) of 90% and 0.74%, respectively, with a correlation of 95% between automated and expert manual segmentations using linear regression analysis. labels: #Automation#Humans#Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Wet Macular Degeneration'
b'BACKGROUND: Depression screening and examination in Indonesia are highly challenging due to the disproportionately low number of mental health professionals in comparison to the Indonesian population. Self-report questionnaires on depression are cost-effective and time-efficient. The current study investigates the psychometric properties of the Indonesian Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology Self Report (IDS-SR).METHODS: The participants were 904 Indonesians (aged 16-61; 50.2% female), recruited via an online survey using Qualtrics. Confirmatory factor analysis of the one-factor, three-factor, and four-factor model were explored. Convergent and divergent validity of the total score of the Indonesian IDS-SR and each factor were examined, as well as the Cronbach\'s Alpha reliability. In addition, an optimal cut-off score for the Indonesian IDS-SR was established using ROC curve analysis.RESULTS: The three-factor model of "cognitive/mood", "anxiety/arousal", and "sleep disturbance" was the best fit with the Indonesian IDS-SR data. Convergent and divergent validity were good. Cronbach\'s Alpha reliability was excellent for the total score, good for the factors "cognitive/mood" and "anxiety/arousal", but insufficient for the factor "sleep disturbance". The optimal cut-off score of the Indonesian IDS-SR was 14, with 87% sensitivity and 86% specificity.CONCLUSIONS: As a multifactorial instrument to measure depression that has good validity and reliability, the Indonesian IDS-SR can be used to assess depressive symptoms for the purpose of research and clinical practice. The optimal cut-off score of the Indonesian IDS-SR is in accordance with the internationally used cut-off score. labels: #Depression#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Humans#Indonesia#Psychometrics#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'Purpose: We quantified retinal and choriocapillaris microvascular changes in healthy control eyes and different stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR) using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA).Methods: This retrospective cross-sectional study included 137 eyes of 86 patients with different stages of DR and 44 eyes of 26 healthy age-matched controls. Participants were imaged with a commercial OCTA device (RTVue-XR Avanti). We analyzed the superficial (SCP) and deep (DCP) retinal capillary plexus, the full retina, and choriocapillaris for the following OCTA parameters: foveal avascular zone, vessel density, percent area of nonperfusion (PAN), and adjusted flow index (AFI). We adjusted for age, sex, and the correlation between eyes of the same study participant in our statistical models.Results: All OCTA parameters showed a significant linear correlation with DR severity (P<0.05) in the univariate models except for AFI measured in the SCP and these correlations remained significant after correcting for covariates. Compared to the other capillary layers, the AFI at the DCP decreased significantly with DR severity. When comparing individual disease severity groups as categories, eyes of subjects with diabetes without DR had significantly increased PAN and AFI in the SCP compared to healthy subjects (P<0.05).Conclusions: Retinal and choriocapillaris vascular nonperfusion in OCTA is correlated significantly with disease severity in eyes with DR. Higher flow in the SCP may be an early marker of diabetic microvascular changes before clinical signs of DR. The steep decline of blood flow in the DCP with increasing DR severity suggests that alterations at the DCP warrant further investigation. labels: #Blood Flow Velocity#Capillaries#Choroid#Ciliary Arteries#Computed Tomography Angiography#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retinal Neovascularization#Retinal Vessels#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Objectives: We implemented a policy of reflex serotonin-release assay (SRA) testing for all patients with a positive heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) immunoassay.Methods: We identified all patients who had SRA testing sent as a consequence of a positive HIT immunoassay test. We reviewed charts of patients to calculate the 4Ts clinical score, determined the effect of testing on clinical management, and documented the change in utilization of direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs).Results: The likelihood of a positive SRA varied with the optical density (OD) of the immunoassay. The performance of the immunoglobulin G (IgG)-specific and polytypic enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was not statistically different. Both OD and 4Ts score correlated with the likelihood of a positive SRA but demonstrated poor specificity. Discontinuation of DTIs in patients with negative SRAs resulted in decreased drug utilization.Conclusions: The IgG-specific HIT immunoassay OD correlates with the likelihood of a positive SRA but does not achieve high specificity. The reflex testing algorithm allows for definitive classification of patients, and the cost of such a reflex testing program may be offset by decreased utilization of DTIs. labels: #Algorithms#Anticoagulants#Hematologic Tests#Heparin#Humans#Immunoassay#Platelet Activation#Serotonin#Thrombocytopenia'
b"Purpose: Recent evidence has suggested a potential association between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and glaucoma and found significant deposition of amyloid-\xce\xb2 (A\xce\xb2) and Tau protein in the retinas of glaucoma patients. However, no coherent finding has emerged regarding the AD-like changes in the central visual system (CVS). Studies confirming the presence of A\xce\xb2 and Tau neuropathology are warranted to identify the underlying mechanism that contributes to the visual impairment observed in glaucoma.Methods: A chronic glaucoma model was established in rhesus monkeys. The retina, optic nerve, CVS including the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1), and cognitive areas including the hippocampus (Hpp) were evaluated. A\xce\xb2 1-42 and phosphorylated-Tau (p-Tau) were tested in the aforementioned structure using immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and ELISA, and the neuritic plaques and argyrophilic structures/neurofilaments were observed using silver staining and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).Results: Immunohistochemistry revealed positive A\xce\xb2 and p-Tau labeling in the LGN. According to Western blotting assay and ELISA, A\xce\xb2 and p-Tau were present in the LGN. A\xce\xb2 also was expressed weakly in the primary visual cortex. In contrast, the hippocampus, which is the most severely affected region in AD, showed no positive labeling. Structurally, silver staining and TEM revealed neuritic plaques and argyrophilic structures/neurofibrillary tangles, in the LGN.Conclusions: For the first time to our knowledge, these data collectively establish the existence of hallmark AD-like pathologies in the glaucomatous LGN. Our results may provide new targets for developing research therapies that will enhance neuroprotection in glaucoma patients. labels: #Amyloid beta-Peptides#Animals#Blotting, Western#Disease Models, Animal#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Geniculate Bodies#Glaucoma#Hippocampus#Intraocular Pressure#Macaca mulatta#Male#Neurofibrillary Tangles#Optic Disk#Optic Nerve Diseases#Phosphorylation#Visual Cortex#tau Proteins"
b'Purpose: Adenocarcinomas or adenomas derived from pigmented ciliary epithelium (APCE) are exceptionally rare ocular tumors. These tumors have pigmented and epithelioid features, and some APCEs are negative for keratin markers and positive for melanocytic markers. It is especially difficult to distinguish APCEs from uveal melanoma (UM). Accordingly, we examined protein expression and genetic mutations associated with APCE to facilitate diagnosis.Methods: Five APCE and 11 UM samples were obtained from patients during surgical resection at our institute. APCE and UM ocular structures were compared comprehensively. Protein expression and genetic alterations involved in malignant melanoma were evaluated.Results: SOX10 was expressed diffusely in all 11 UMs and in surrounding uveal or choroidal melanocytes, but not in the APCEs or nontumorous pigmented epithelia. Additionally, the expression patterns of cytokeratins and melanocytic markers differed between UMs and APCEs. We identified BRAF V600E mutations in four of five APCE samples, but not in the 11 UM samples. Moreover, GNAQ or GNA11 mutations were found in 10 of the 11 UM samples, but not in APCE samples. NRAS mutations were not observed in either tumor group examined.Conclusions: APCE is a separate entity distinguished from UM by the absence of SOX10 expression and presence of the BRAF V600E mutation. These results have implications for diagnosis, providing a means to distinguish between UM and APCE. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenoma#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Biomarkers, Tumor#Ciliary Body#DNA Mutational Analysis#Female#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits, Gq-G11#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Male#Melanocytes#Melanoma#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Middle Aged#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Pigment Epithelium of Eye#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#SOXE Transcription Factors#Uveal Neoplasms'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the prognosis in Chinese patients with conjunctival melanoma and determine its predictors. Further, to explore the racial differences in clinical characteristics and outcomes between Chinese and Caucasian patients.Methods: This cohort study included 57 eyes of 57 consecutive patients with pathologically verified conjunctival melanoma between 1996 and 2016. Medical records were reviewed for factors associated with the local recurrence, metastasis, and tumor-related mortality. All eligible patients were followed up for these three outcome measures. The demographic data, clinical characteristics, and outcomes were compared between Chinese and Caucasian patients.Results: The mean follow-up period was 52.2 \xc2\xb1 49.4 months. Among the total 57 patients, 29 (51%) patients experienced local recurrence. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year recurrence rate was 31.0%, 59.7%, and 66.4%, respectively. Treatment complications detected in the follow-up included dry eye (32, 56.1%), irregular eyelid margin (25, 43.9%), eyelid retraction (18, 31.6%), blepharoptosis (9, 15.8%), mixed pigmentation of the tarsus reconstructed by mucosal membrane graft, corneal opacities (6, 10.5%), and symblepharon (2, 3.5%). Twenty (35%) patients developed metastasis. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year metastasis rate was 16.7%, 38.7%, and 50.9%, respectively. Fourteen (25%) patients died of conjunctival melanoma, with a median survival time of 24 months. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year tumor-related mortality was 3.8%, 30.5%, and 37.4%, respectively. Tumor hemorrhage is an independent risk factor for tumor-related death (hazard ratio [HR]: 18.81, P = 0.01) and metastasis (HR: 4.57, P = 0.02). Significant differences were noted between Chinese and Caucasians patients from America, Germany, and England in demographics, clinical characteristics, and outcomes. Compared to Caucasians, Chinese patients tended to have more male cases (P<0.01) and to be younger (P = 0.03). At initial presentation, more Chinese patients had de novo tumor origin (P<0.01), epithelioid cell type (P<0.01), nonbulbar tumor location (P<0.01), greater basal diameter (P = 0.04), multifocal tumor (P<0.01), feeder vessels (P<0.01), eyelid (P<0.01) and orbit involvement (P<0.01), and advanced T stages (P<0.01). Over a similar follow-up period with Caucasians patients (52.2 vs. 52 months, P = 0.97), a significantly larger proportion of Chinese patients exhibited eyelid invasion (P = 0.04) and orbital invasion (P<0.01) at follow-up, local recurrence (P<0.01), metastasis (P<0.01), and tumor-related death (P<0.01).Conclusions: Conjunctival melanoma is a rare malignancy with great potential for mortality in Chinese. Special attention should be paid to patients with tumor hemorrhage. Compared to Caucasians, Chinese patients exhibit more aggressive clinical signs with compromised prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#China#Cohort Studies#Conjunctival Neoplasms#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To investigate the impact of different gas mixtures (hyperoxia, hypoxia, and hypercapnia) on the optic nerve head (ONH) and choroidal (Ch) hemodynamics.Methods: Twenty-three healthy subjects (28 \xc2\xb1 6 years) took part in the study. Variations in inspired oxygen and carbon dioxide fraction were produced by a gas mixing device. Arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) was measured continuously using a transcutaneous sensor and end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure by capnography. The experiment comprised three successive periods: 3-minute baseline (room air breathing), 15-minute gas mixture inhalation (normocapnic hypoxia, hypercapnia, or hyperoxia), and 15-minute recovery (room air breathing). Laser Doppler flowmeter parameters-velocity (VEL), volume (VOL), and flow (BF) of red blood cells-were measured. Two-way ANOVAs were performed for statistical analysis.Results: In response to hyperoxia, ONHBF significantly decreased by -18% \xc2\xb1 6% (P = 0.04) from baseline, due to significant changes in VEL (-12% \xc2\xb1 3% P = 0.0002). During hypoxia at 85% SpO2, ONH VEL increased by +12% \xc2\xb1 3% (P = 0.0009), whereas VOL and BF did not change significantly. ChBF significantly increased by +7% \xc2\xb1 2% (P = 0.004) in response to hypoxia, due to significant changes in VEL +5% \xc2\xb1 2% (P = 0.03). Both Ch and ONHBFs did not vary significantly in response to hypercapnia.Conclusions: The magnitude of the blood flow response is the most significant during hyperoxia for ONH and hypoxia for ChBF. For ONHBF, a 37% difference between hyperoxia and hypoxia can be useful when vasoreactivity to O2 will be tested in patients. labels: #Adult#Blood Flow Velocity#Blood Pressure#Carbon Dioxide#Choroid#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Hemodynamics#Humans#Hypercapnia#Hyperoxia#Hypoxia#Intraocular Pressure#Laser-Doppler Flowmetry#Male#Optic Disk#Oxygen#Regional Blood Flow'
b'Purpose: Migraine, particularly with aura, has been associated with ocular and systemic ischemic complications, but there are limited data on the ocular vasculature in migraine. We used optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) to assess perfusion of the macula and optic nerve in migraine patients, with (MA) and without (MO) aura, compared to healthy controls (HC).Methods: We recruited 15 MA (mean age 42 years), 12 MO (mean age 46 years), and 22 HC (mean age 39 years) participants from neurology and neuro-ophthalmology clinics. Participants underwent optical coherence tomography and 3 \xc3\x97 3 mm OCTA of the macula and optic nerve. Foveal avascular zone area was automatically measured using AngioVue software, and vessel density was calculated as blood vessel length divided by scan area (mm-1) after skeletonization of OCTA images.Results: On macular OCTA, MA participants had an enlarged foveal avascular zone area when compared with HC (0.300 \xc2\xb1 0.019 vs. 0.220 \xc2\xb1 0.066 mm2, P = 0.006). In addition, superficial foveal vessel density was decreased in MA participants when compared with MO participants (7.8 \xc2\xb1 0.31 vs. 9.3 \xc2\xb1 0.44, P = 0.04) and HC (7.8 \xc2\xb1 0.31 vs. 9.4 \xc2\xb1 0.21 mm-1, P = 0.002). On optic nerve OCTA, the MA participants had reduced superior peripapillary vessel density when compared with the MO participants (12.0 \xc2\xb1 0.45 vs. 14.0 \xc2\xb1 0.38 mm-1, P = 0.031) and HC (12.0 \xc2\xb1 0.45 vs. 14.1 \xc2\xb1 0.53 mm-1, P = 0.035). There were no significant differences between the MO and HC groups.Conclusions: Migraine with, but not without, aura was associated with foveal and peripapillary vascular decrements, which may possibly mediate increased risk of ocular and systemic vascular complications in these patients. OCTA could potentially be useful as a biomarker for migraine with aura. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Fovea Centralis#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Migraine with Aura#Migraine without Aura#Optic Disk#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult'
b"Background and Aims: Despite the importance of growth [CO 2 ] and water availability for tree growth and survival, little information is available on how the interplay of these two factors can shape intraspecific patterns of functional variation in tree species, particularly for conifers. The main objective of the study was to test whether the range of realized drought tolerance within the species can be affected by elevated [CO 2 ].Methods: Intraspecific variability in leaf gas exchange, growth rate and other leaf functional traits were studied in clones of maritime pine. A factorial experiment including water availability, growth [CO 2 ] and four different genotypes was conducted in growth rooms. A 'water deficit' treatment was imposed by applying a cycle of progressive soil water depletion and recovery at two levels of growth [CO 2 ]: 'ambient [CO 2 ]' (aCO 2 400\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol mol -1 ) and 'elevated [CO 2 ]' (eCO 2 800\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol mol -1 ).Key Results: eCO2 had a neutral effect on the impact of drought on growth and leaf gas exchange of the most drought-sensitive genotypes while it aggravated the impact of drought on the most drought-tolerant genotypes at aCO2. Thus, eCO2 attenuated genotypic differences in drought tolerance as compared with those observed at aCO2. Genotypic variation at both levels of growth [CO2] was found in specific leaf area and leaf nitrogen content but not in other physiological leaf traits such as intrinsic water use efficiency and leaf osmotic potential. eCO2 increased \xce\x94 13 C but had no significant effect on \xce\xb4 18 O. This effect did not interact with the impact of drought, which increased \xce\xb4 18 O and decreased \xce\x94 13 C. Nevertheless, correlations between \xce\x94 13 C and \xce\xb4 18 O indicated the non-stomatal component of water use efficiency in this species can be particularly sensitive to drought.Conclusions: Evidence from this study suggests elevated [CO 2 ] can modify current ranges of drought tolerance within tree species. labels: #Carbon Dioxide#Chlorophyll#Dehydration#Genotype#Nitrogen#Osmotic Pressure#Photosynthesis#Pinus#Plant Leaves"
b"Background and Aims: Floating sweet-grass ( Glyceria fluitans ) can form aerial as well as floating leaves, and these both possess superhydrophobic cuticles, so that gas films are retained when submerged. However, only the adaxial side of the floating leaves is superhydrophobic, so the abaxial side is directly in contact with the water. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of these different gas films on underwater net photosynthesis ( P N ) and dark respiration ( R D ).Methods: Evolution of O 2 was used to measure underwater P N in relation to dissolved CO 2 on leaf segments with or without gas films, and O 2 microelectrodes were used to assess cuticle resistance of floating leaves to O 2 uptake in the dark.Key Results: The adaxial side of aerial leaves was more hydrophobic than the abaxial side and also initially retained a thicker gas film when submerged. Underwater P N vs. dissolved CO 2 of aerial leaf segments with gas films had a K m of 172\xe2\x80\x89mmol CO 2 m -3 and a P max of 7\xc2\xb71\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol O 2 m -2 s -1 , and the leaf gas films reduced the apparent resistance to CO 2 uptake 12-fold. Underwater P N of floating leaves measured at 700\xe2\x80\x89mmol CO 2 m -3 was 1\xc2\xb75-fold higher than P N of aerial leaves. The floating leaves had significantly lower cuticle resistance to dark O 2 uptake on the wettable abaxial side compared with the superhydrophobic adaxial side.Conclusions: Glyceria fluitans showed high rates of underwater P N and these were obtained at environmentally relevant CO 2 concentrations. It appears that the floating leaves possess both aquatic and terrestrial properties and thus have 'the best of both worlds' so that floating leaves are particularly adapted to situations where the plant is partially submerged and occasionally experiences complete submergence. labels: #Aquatic Organisms#Carbon Dioxide#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Oxygen#Photosynthesis#Plant Leaves#Poaceae"
b'Background: Combining bevacizumab with frontline chemotherapy statistically significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) but not overall survival (OS) in the phase III GOG-0218 trial. Evaluation of candidate biomarkers was an exploratory objective.Methods: Patients with stage III (incompletely resected) or IV ovarian cancer were randomly assigned to receive six chemotherapy cycles with placebo or bevacizumab followed by single-agent placebo or bevacizumab. Five candidate tumor biomarkers were assessed by immunohistochemistry. The biomarker-evaluable population was categorized into high or low biomarker-expressing subgroups using median and quartile cutoffs. Associations between biomarker expression and efficacy were analyzed. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: The biomarker-evaluable population (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89980) comprising 78.5% of the intent-to-treat population had representative baseline characteristics and efficacy outcomes. Neither prognostic nor predictive associations were seen for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2, neuropilin-1, or MET. Higher microvessel density (MVD; measured by CD31) showed predictive value for PFS (hazard ratio [HR] for bevacizumab vs placebo = 0.40, 95% confidence interval [CI]= 0.29 to 0.54, vs 0.80, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.59 to 1.07, for high vs low MVD, respectively, P interaction = .003) and OS (HR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.67, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.51 to 0.88, vs 1.10, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.84 to 1.44, P interaction = .02). Tumor VEGF-A was not predictive for PFS but showed potential predictive value for OS using a third-quartile cutoff for high VEGF-A expression.Conclusions: These retrospective tumor biomarker analyses suggest a positive association between density of vascular endothelial cells (the predominant cell type expressing VEGF receptors) and tumor VEGF-A levels and magnitude of bevacizumab effect in ovarian cancer. The potential predictive value of MVD (CD31) and tumor VEGF-A is consistent with a mechanism of action driven by VEGF-A signaling blockade. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Angiogenesis Inhibitors#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bevacizumab#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carboplatin#Confidence Intervals#Disease-Free Survival#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Microvessels#Middle Aged#Neuropilin-1#Ovarian Neoplasms#Paclitaxel#Platelet Endothelial Cell Adhesion Molecule-1#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Retrospective Studies#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2'
b'Background: Early-stage breast cancer is among the most prevalent and costly malignancies treated in the American health care system. Adjuvant radiotherapy after lumpectomy represents a substantial portion of breast cancer expenditures. The relative value of novel radiotherapeutic approaches such as intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) and hypofractionated whole breast irradiation (HF-WBI) compared with conventionally fractionated whole breast irradiation (CF-WBI) is unknown. Therefore, we used prospectively collected outcomes from randomized clinical trials (RCTs) to compare the cost-effectiveness of these approaches.Methods: We constructed a decision-analytic model that followed women who were treated with lumpectomy for early-stage breast cancer. Recurrence, mortality, complication rates, and utilities (five-year radiation-associated quality of life scores), were extracted from RCTs. Costs were based on Medicare reimbursement rates. Cost-effectiveness from societal and health care sector perspectives was estimated considering two scenarios-the first assumes that radiation-associated disutility persists five years after treatment, and the second assumes that disutility discontinues. Lifetime outcomes were summarized using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses evaluated the robustness of the results.Results: HF-WBI dominated CF-WBI (ie, resulted in higher quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] and lower cost) in all scenarios. HF-WBI also had a greater likelihood of cost-effectiveness compared with IORT; under a societal perspective that assumes that radiation-associated disutility persists, HF-WBI results in an ICER of $17\xe2\x80\x89024 per QALY compared with IORT with a probability of cost-effectiveness of 80% at the $100\xe2\x80\x89000 per QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. If radiation-associated disutility is assumed to discontinue, the ICER is lower ($11\xe2\x80\x89461/QALY), resulting in an even higher (83%) probability of relative cost-effectiveness. The ICER was most sensitive to the probability of metastasis and treatment cost.Conclusions: For women with early-stage breast cancer requiring adjuvant radiotherapy, HF-WBI is cost-effective compared with CF-WBI and IORT. labels: #Aged#Breast Neoplasms#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Dose Hypofractionation#Female#Humans#Intraoperative Care#Markov Chains#Mastectomy, Segmental#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Quality of Life#Quality-Adjusted Life Years#Radiotherapy#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Background: Childhood cancer survivors treated with chest-directed radiotherapy have substantially elevated risk for developing breast cancer. Although genetic susceptibility to breast cancer in the general population is well studied, large-scale evaluation of breast cancer susceptibility after chest-directed radiotherapy for childhood cancer is lacking.Methods: We conducted a genome-wide association study of breast cancer in female survivors of childhood cancer, pooling two cohorts with detailed treatment data and systematic, long-term follow-up: the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study and St. Jude Lifetime Cohort. The study population comprised 207 survivors who developed breast cancer and 2774 who had not developed any subsequent neoplasm as of last follow-up. Genotyping and subsequent imputation yielded 16\xe2\x80\x89958\xe2\x80\x89466 high-quality variants for analysis. We tested associations in the overall population and in subgroups stratified by receipt of lower than 10 and 10 or higher gray breast radiation exposure. We report P values and pooled per-allele risk estimates from Cox proportional hazards regression models. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Among survivors who received 10 or higher gray breast radiation exposure, a locus on 1q41 was associated with subsequent breast cancer risk (rs4342822, nearest gene PROX1 , risk allele frequency in control subjects [RAF controls ] = 0.46, hazard ratio = 1.92, 95% confidence interval = 1.49 to 2.44, P = 7.09\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -9 ). Two rare variants also showed potentially promising associations (breast radiation \xe2\x89\xa510 gray: rs74949440, 11q23, TAGLN , RAF controls = 0.02, P = 5.84\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -8 ;<10 gray: rs17020562, 1q32.3, RPS6KC1 , RAF controls = 0.0005, P = 6.68\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -8 ). Associations were restricted to these dose subgroups, with consistent findings in the two survivor cohorts.Conclusions: Our study provides strong evidence that germline genetics outside high-risk syndromes could modify the effect of radiation exposure on breast cancer risk after childhood cancer. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Breast#Breast Neoplasms#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genome-Wide Association Study#Hodgkin Disease#Homeodomain Proteins#Humans#Infant#Leukemia#Microfilament Proteins#Middle Aged#Muscle Proteins#Neoplasms, Radiation-Induced#Neoplasms, Second Primary#Proportional Hazards Models#Radiotherapy Dosage#Retrospective Studies#Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases#Survivors#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Young Adult#raf Kinases'
b'Background: In October 2016, pembrolizumab became the new standard of care for firstline treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (mNSCLC) whose tumors express programmed death ligand 1 in at least 50% of cells. The US Food and Drug Administration-recommended dose is 200\xe2\x80\x89mg every three weeks. Multiple studies have demonstrated equivalent efficacy with weight-based doses between 2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg and 10\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg. The objective of this study was to compare the economic impact of using personalized dosing (2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg) vs fixed dosing (200\xe2\x80\x89mg) in the firstline setting of mNSCLC.Methods: We performed a budget impact analysis from the US societal perspective to compare fixed dosing with personalized dosing. We calculated the target population and weight of patients who would be treated with pembrolizumab annually in the firstline setting. Using survival curves from the KEYNOTE 024 trial with Weibull extrapolation, we estimated the mean number of cycles that patients would receive. Using the Medicare average sales price, we calculated the difference in cost between personalized and fixed dosing.Results: Our base case model demonstrates that the total annual cost of pembrolizumab with fixed dosing is US $3\xe2\x80\x89440\xe2\x80\x89127\xe2\x80\x89429, and with personalized dosing it is US $2\xe2\x80\x89614\xe2\x80\x89496\xe2\x80\x89846. The use of personalized dosing would lead to a 24.0% annual savings of US $825\xe2\x80\x89630\xe2\x80\x89583 in the United States.Conclusions: Personalized dosing of pembrolizumab may have the potential to save approximately $0.825 billion annually in the United States, likely without impacting outcomes. This option should be considered for the firstline management of PD-L1-positive advanced lung cancer. labels: #Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Antineoplastic Agents#B7-H1 Antigen#Body Weight#Budgets#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Costs#Drug Dosage Calculations#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Monte Carlo Method#Precision Medicine#United States'
b'Background: Plasticity of the ERBB receptor network has been suggested to cause acquired resistance to anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) therapies. Thus, we studied whether a novel approach using an ERBB1-3-neutralizing antibody mixture can block these compensatory mechanisms of resistance.Methods: HER2+ cell lines and xenografts (n \xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x896 mice per group) were treated with the ERBB1-3 antibody mixture Pan-HER, trastuzumab/lapatinib (TL), trastuzumab/pertuzumab (TP), or T-DM1. Downregulation of ERBB receptors was assessed by immunoblot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Paired pre- and post-T-DM1 tumor biopsies from patients (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8911) with HER2-amplified breast cancer were evaluated for HER2 and P-HER3 expression by immunohistochemistry and/or fluorescence in situ hybridization. ERBB ligands were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Drug-resistant cells were generated by chronic treatment with T-DM1. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Treatment with Pan-HER inhibited growth and promoted degradation of ERBB1-3 receptors in a panel of HER2+ breast cancer cells. Compared with TL, TP, and T-DM1, Pan-HER induced a similar antitumor effect against established BT474 and HCC1954 tumors, but was superior to TL against MDA-361 xenografts (TL mean = 2026\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89924\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , vs Pan-HER mean = 565\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89499\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , P = .04). Pan-HER-treated BT474 xenografts did not recur after treatment discontinuation, whereas tumors treated with TL, TP, and T-DM1 did. Post-TP and post-T-DM1 recurrent tumors expressed higher levels of neuregulin-1 (NRG1), HER3 and P-HER3 (all P<.05). Higher levels of P-HER3 protein and NRG1 mRNA were also observed in HER2+ breast cancers progressing after T-DM1 and trastuzumab (NRG1 transcript fold change \xc2\xb1 SD; pretreatment = 2, SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.9, vs post-treatment = 11.4, SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910.3, P = .04). The HER3-neutralizing antibody LJM716 resensitized the drug-resistant cells to T-DM1, suggesting a causal association between the NRG1-HER3 axis and drug resistance. Finally, Pan-HER treatment inhibited growth of HR6 trastuzumab- and T-DM1-resistant xenografts.Conclusions: These data suggest that upregulation of a NRG1-HER3 axis can mediate escape from anti-HER2 therapies. Further, multitargeted antibody mixtures, such as Pan-HER, can simultaneously remove and/or block targeted ERBB receptor and ligands, thus representing an effective approach against drug-sensitive and -resistant HER2+ cancers. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Line, Tumor#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Humans#Ligands#Maytansine#Mice#Mice, Nude#Quinazolines#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptor, ErbB-2#Receptor, ErbB-3#Trastuzumab#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Conventional cancer clinical trials can be slow and costly, often produce results with limited external validity, and are difficult for patients to participate in. Recent technological advances and a dynamic policy landscape in the United States have created a fertile ground for the use of real-world data (RWD) to improve current methods of clinical evidence generation. Sources of RWD include electronic health records, insurance claims, patient registries, and digital health solutions outside of conventional clinical trials. A definition focused on the original intent of data collected at the point of care can distinguish RWD from conventional clinical trial data. When the intent of data collection at the point of care is research, RWD can be generated using experimental designs similar to those employed in conventional clinical trials, but with several advantages that include gains in efficient execution of studies with an appropriate balance between internal and external validity. RWD can support active pharmacovigilance, insights into the natural history of disease, and the development of external control arms. Prospective collection of RWD can enable evidence generation based on pragmatic clinical trials (PCTs) that support randomized study designs and expand clinical research to the point of care. PCTs may help address the growing demands for access to experimental therapies while increasing patient participation in cancer clinical trials. Conducting valid real-world studies requires data quality assurance through auditable data abstraction methods and new incentives to drive electronic capture of clinically relevant data at the point of care. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Clinical Trials as Topic#Data Collection#Electronic Health Records#Evidence-Based Medicine#Humans#Insurance Claim Review#Medical Oncology#Observational Studies as Topic#Patient Selection#Point-of-Care Systems#Pragmatic Clinical Trials as Topic#Registries#Reproducibility of Results#United States'
b'Background: Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common solid tumor found in children, and deletions within the 11q region are observed in 11% to 48% of these tumors. Notably, such tumors are associated with poor prognosis; however, little is known regarding the molecular targets located in 11q.Methods: Genomic alterations of ATM , DNA damage response (DDR)-associated genes located in 11q ( MRE11A, H2AFX , and CHEK1 ), and BRCA1, BARD1, CHEK2, MDM2 , and TP53 were investigated in 45 NB-derived cell lines and 237 fresh tumor samples. PARP (poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase) inhibitor sensitivity of NB was investigated in in vitro and invivo xenograft models. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Among 237 fresh tumor samples, ATM, MRE11A, H2AFX , and/or CHEK1 loss or imbalance in 11q was detected in 20.7% of NBs, 89.8% of which were stage III or IV. An additional 7.2% contained ATM rare single nucleotide variants (SNVs). Rare SNVs in DDR-associated genes other than ATM were detected in 26.4% and were mutually exclusive. Overall, samples with SNVs and/or copy number alterations in these genes accounted for 48.4%. ATM-defective cells are known to exhibit dysfunctions in homologous recombination repair, suggesting a potential for synthetic lethality by PARP inhibition. Indeed, 83.3% NB-derived cell lines exhibited sensitivity to PARP inhibition. In addition, NB growth was markedly attenuated in the xenograft group receiving PARP inhibitors (sham-treated vs olaprib-treated group; mean [SD] tumor volume of sham-treated vs olaprib-treated groups\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x897377 [1451]m 3 vs 298 [312] m 3 , P = .001, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894).Conclusions: Genomic alterations of DDR-associated genes including ATM, which regulates homologous recombination repair, were observed in almost half of NBs, suggesting that synthetic lethality could be induced by treatment with a PARP inhibitor. Indeed, DDR-defective NB cell lines were sensitive to PARP inhibitors. Thus, PARP inhibitors represent candidate NB therapeutics. labels: #Animals#Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Checkpoint Kinase 1#Checkpoint Kinase 2#Child#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#DNA Damage#DNA Repair#DNA-Binding Proteins#Gene Deletion#Heterografts#Histones#Humans#MRE11 Homologue Protein#Mice#Neuroblastoma#Phthalazines#Piperazines#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'Non-visual opsins were discovered in the early 1990s. These genes play roles in circadian rhythm in mammals, seasonal reproduction in birds, light avoidance in amphibian larvae, and neural development in fish. However, the interpretation of such studies and the success of future work are compromised by the fact that non-visual opsin repertoires have not been properly characterized in any of these lineages. Here, we show that non-visual opsins from tetrapods and ray-finned fish are distributed among 18 monophyletic subfamilies. An amphibian sequence occurs in every subfamily, whereas mammalian orthologs occur in only seven. Species in the major ray-finned fish lineages, Holostei, Osteoglossomorpha, Otomorpha, Protacanthopterygii, and Neoteleostei, have large numbers of non-visual opsins (22-32 genes) as a result of gene duplication events including, but not limited to, the teleost genome duplication (TGD). In contrast to visual opsins, where lineage-specific duplication is common, the ray-finned fish non-visual opsin repertoire appears to have stabilized shortly after the TGD event and consequently even distantly related species have repertoires of similar size and composition. Most non-visual opsins have been named without the benefit of a phylogenetic perspective and, accordingly, major revisions are proposed. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Fishes#Gene Expression Regulation#Opsins'
b"Description: In April 2017, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) approved a joint clinical practice guideline for the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus.Methods: The VA/DoD Evidence-Based Practice Work Group convened a joint VA/DoD guideline development effort that included a multidisciplinary panel of practicing clinician stakeholders and conformed to the Institute of Medicine's tenets for trustworthy clinical practice guidelines. The guideline panel developed key questions in collaboration with the ECRI Institute, which systematically searched and evaluated the literature through June 2016, developed an algorithm, and rated recommendations by using the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system.Recommendations: This synopsis summarizes key features of the guideline in 7 areas: patient-centered care and shared decision making, glycemic biomarkers, hemoglobin A1c target ranges, individualized treatment plans, outpatient pharmacologic treatment, glucose targets for critically ill patients, and treatment of hospitalized patients. labels: #Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Clinical Decision-Making#Decision Making#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Angiopathies#Fructosamine#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Life Expectancy#Patient Preference#Patient-Centered Care"
b"Objective:To analyze the clinical characteristics and perinatal outcomes of listeriosis during pregnancy.Methods:From July 2010 to April 2017, 70 131 women delivered in West China Second University Hospital. Nineteen cases were confirmed as listeriosis. The clinical symptoms, laboratory results, pathogens, placenta pathology and perinatal outcomes were analyzed retrospectively.Results:The median age of the 19 cases was 29.7 (19.0-42.0) years old. The median time before diagnosis was 4.8(0.5-19.0) days. The main clinical symptoms at first visits were high fever (17/19), increased white blood cells (18/19), abdominal pain (12/19). Listeria was found in samples of mother's blood (11/19), vaginal secretions (15/19), placenta (1/19), neonatal blood (4/19), neonatal phlegm (5/19) and neonatal ear secretions (1/19), respectively. Inflammation of placenta was identified in all 19 cases. Among the 19 cases, 1 was grade \xe2\x85\xa0 chorioamnionitis, 4 was grade \xe2\x85\xa1, 5 was grade \xe2\x85\xa2 and 9 was grade \xe2\x85\xa5. Only 4 newborn survived after therapy, and others suffered perinatal death, including 8 cases of intrauterine death, 3 cases of miscarriage and 6 cases of treatment failure.Conclusions:Listeriosis has characteristics of acute onset, quick development and high morbidity during pregnancy. The empiric use of antibiotics might not cover listeria. The understanding of listeriosis should be improved. labels: #Abortion, Spontaneous#Adult#Anti-Bacterial Agents#China#Chorioamnionitis#Female#Fetal Death#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Listeria monocytogenes#Listeriosis#Parturition#Placenta#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Pregnancy Outcome#Retrospective Studies"
b'Objectives:To analyze 3 cases of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome diagnosed prenatally, and to demonstrate clinical phenotype of the syndrome in prenatal setting.Methods:From January 2013 to July 2017, 1 370 women received invasive prenatal diagnosis and chromosome microarray analysis (CMA) in Peking Union Medical College Hospital. Among them, 3 fetuses were diagnosed as 17q12 microdeletion syndrome. All 3 cases were low-risk pregnancies. Abnormal structures in fetal kidney were found in all 3 cases, including 1 case of multiple renal cysts, 2 cases of bilateral hyperechogenic kidneys. These women accepted invasive prenatal diagnosis followed by karyotyping, parental fluorescence in situ hybridization or CMA validation.Results:The second and third trimester ultrasound showed that all 3 fetuses had bilateral renal structural abnormalities, including hyperechogenic kidney, multiple cysts and renal pelvis dilatation. The karyotyping of the 3 fetuses were normal. CMA examination showed that each case had 1.4-1.6 Mb deletion in 17q12 region. Two cases were de novo deletion and 1 case was inherited from the mother who had mild symptoms. The 3 women decided to terminate pregnancies after genetic counseling.Conclusion:17q12 microdeletion syndrome is a recurrent chromosome microdeletion syndrome, and the unique phenotype in prenatal setting is the abnormal structure of bilateral kidneys. A few cases of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome even inherited normally phenotypical parents, and prenatal genetic counseling of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome is relatively difficult. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Chromosome Deletion#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17#Female#Fetal Diseases#Humans#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Intellectual Disability#Karyotyping#Kidney#Microarray Analysis#Phenotype#Pregnancy#Prenatal Diagnosis#Ultrasonography, Prenatal'
b"Objective:To investigate the safety and efficacy of hysterosopic management of type \xe2\x85\xa1 cesarean scar pregnancy (CSP) and the value of prophylactic uterine artery embolization (UAE).Methods:Totally 104 patients with type \xe2\x85\xa1 CSP treated with hysteroscopic surgery at the Women's Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, during Jan. 2009 to Jun. 2016 were analyzed retrospectively, 67 patients combined with UAE (UAE group) and 37 patients without combined with UAE (non-UAE group). Laparoscopy or sonography guidance was conducted simultaneously. The following clinical parameters were compared, including: primary cure rate, uterine packing rate, uterine perforation rate, hemoglobin level change, the time for the mass absorption and the return of \xce\xb2-hCG to normal, complications, hospital days and hospital stay cost.Results:Median gestational age, size of mass, thickness of the anterior myometrium and \xce\xb2-hCG level in UAE group versus non-UAE group were 47 versus 47 days, 30 versus 30 mm,2 versus 2 mm, 36 524 versus 32 226 U/L (allP>0.05). Out of 104, 100 patients were managed successfully with hysteroscopic surgery, and 4 patients transformed to laparoscopic or laparotomy surgery. Hysteroscopic surgery was effective in 63 out of 67 patients (94%) in UAE group and 34 out of 37 patients (92%) in non-UAE group (P>0.05). There was no significant differences regarding uterine perforation rate, uterine packing rate, hemoglobin change and recovery time between UAE group and non-UAE group (allP>0.05). The median hospital day was 7 days in UAE group versus 5 days in non-UAE group (P<0.01). The median hospital stay cost was 13 654 yuan in UAE group versus 9 108 yuan in non-UAE group (P<0.01). Serious complication occurred in 4 patients (6%, 4/67) in UAE group and 2 patients (5%, 2/67) in non-UAE group (P=0.906).Conclusions:Hysteroscopic surgery is effective and safe for patients with type \xe2\x85\xa1 CSP in the first trimester with size \xe2\x89\xa430 mm in diameter and gestation age<7 weeks. The value of prophylactic UAE is uncertain. labels: #Adult#Cesarean Section#Chorionic Gonadotropin, beta Subunit, Human#Cicatrix#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Humans#Hysteroscopy#Laparoscopy#Laparotomy#Length of Stay#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Trimester, First#Pregnancy, Ectopic#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography#Uterine Artery Embolization#Uterus#Young Adult"
b"Objective:To investigate clinical outcomes of laparoendoscopic single-site ovarian cystectomy compared with traditional multi-port laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy.Methods:Data of 81 patients with ovarian cystectomy from January 2016 to May 2017, the single-site group (n=40) and the multi-port group (n=41) in Peking Union Medical College Hospital were retrospectively collected. The outcomes of single-site and multi-port groups were analyzed and compared, including: postoperative fever, operation time, blood loss, hemoglobin change, surgical complications, postoperative pain score, postoperative analgesic requirements, body image scale and cosmetic score, length of hospital stay, postoperative total cost.Results:No complication was found in two groups. No difference was found in postoperative fever, blood loss, hemoglobin change, postoperative pain score, length of hospital stay, and total cost between the two groups (allP>0.05). Operation time was (50\xc2\xb120) minutes in single-site group, and (40\xc2\xb115) minutes in multi-port group; postoperative analgesic requirements was 28%(11/40) in single-site group, and 7%(4/41) in multi-port group; cosmetic score was 22.6\xc2\xb12.6 in single-site group, and 17.3\xc2\xb12.6 in multi-port group; body image scale was 5.7\xc2\xb11.2 in single-site group, and 6.2\xc2\xb11.2 in multi-port group; these four clinical parameters were statistical differences (allP<0.05).Conculsion:Laparoendoscopic single-site ovarian cystectomy is feasible and safe, although it could't relieve the postoperative pian, it do offer a higher cosmetic satisfaction. labels: #Adult#Endoscopy#Female#Gynecologic Surgical Procedures#Humans#Laparoscopy#Length of Stay#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Ovarian Cysts#Ovary#Pain, Postoperative#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'Objective:To compare the dose, clinical efficacy and acute adverse reactions of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) combined with three-dimensional brachytherapy (3D-BT) in the treatment of concurrent radiotherapy and chemotherapy for advanced stage cervical cancer patients.Methods:Data collection was performed from January 2011 to November 2015 in Chinese PLA General Hospital and Inner Mongolia Cancer Hospital. All 89 patients with advanced stage (\xe2\x85\xa1 b-\xe2\x85\xa2 b) cervical cancer were treated by pelvic radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy, 46 cases of them received IMRT and 3D-BT (IMRT group) , 43 cases received 3D-CRT and 3D-BT (3D-CRT group) , along with cisplatin chemotherapy. The dose accumulation of external beam radiotherapy and 3D-BT was calculated by deformable image registration to analyze clinical efficacy, acute adverse reactions and prognosis of the two groups.Results:(1) Dose of radiotherapy: planning target volume (PTV) coverage of IMRT group and 3D-CRT group were respectively (95.4\xc2\xb14.7)% and (95.1\xc2\xb15.1)%, without significant differences (t=0.289,P=0.773). Compared with the patients treated with 3D-CRT, the volumn receiving at least 30 Gy (V(30)),V(50) of rectum, colon, bladder and small intestine andV(20) of bone marrow in the IMRT group were significantly decreased (P<0.05). Regarding the combined dose, the maximum dose (D(max)) and the minimum dose received by the most exposed 2 cm(3) volume of the analyzed organ (D(2CC)) of rectum, colon, bladder and small intestine of IMRT group were significantly lower than those of 3D-CRT group (P<0.05). (2) Short-term efficacy: the effective rate of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were respectively 93% (43/46) and 91% (39/43), with no significant differences (\xcf\x87(2)=0.237,P=0.626). (3) Acute adverse reactions: compared with 3D-CRT, IMRT could significantly reduce grade 1-2 acute toxicity in gastrointestinal [63%(29/46) vs 84%(36/43)], genitourinary [17%(8/46) vs 37%(16/43)]and hematologic [57%(26/46) vs 79%(34/43)] system (allP<0.05). There were no significant differences of grade 3 acute adverse reactions of gastrointestinal, genitourinary and hematologic system between two groups (allP>0.05). No grade 4 acute adverse reactions were observed. (4) Prognosis: the overall survival rate at 1, 2-year of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were respectively 95.6%, 89.1% and 93.1%, 86.1%. The progression-free survival rateat 1, 2-year of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were 91.1%, 89.1% and 88.4%, 86.1%, respectively. There were no significant differences in overall survival rate and progression-free survival rate between two groups (P>0.05).Conclusions:Compared with 3D-CRT, IMRT combined with 3D-BT has dosimetry advantages based on dose accumulation algorithms by deformable image registration. IMRT could ensure clinical efficacy and significantly reduce the incidence rate of acute toxicities. labels: #Brachytherapy#China#Cisplatin#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Pelvis#Prognosis#Radiotherapy Dosage#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Radiotherapy, Conformal#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Rectum#Severity of Illness Index#Survival Rate#Urinary Bladder#Urogenital System#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms'
b'Objective:To explore the origin of ovarian high grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) through analysing the expression and significance of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in the ovary and fallopian tube of different types and grades of serous carcinoma.Methods:A total of 44 cases tissue samples of ovarian tumor including 34 malignant ovarian tumor and 10 normal normal tissue (as control group) were collected from the admitted patients in Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical University from January 2015 to January 2016. Fallopian tube tissues were segmented in accordance with the fimbria, ampulla, isthmus and the corresponding ovarian tissues were by the side. There were 34 cases of patients with ovarian cancer including 29 cases of epithelial ovarian cancer (27 serous carcinoma, 1 mucinous carcinoma,1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma) and 5 non-epithelial ovarian cancer (sex cord-interstitial tumor). Among 27 cases of patients with ovarian serous cancer, there were 23 HGSC and 4 low-grade ovarian serous cancer (LGSC). One hundred fifty-three cases of samples were diagnosed as ovarian serous cancer by Shandong University Affiliated Qilu Hospital from 2005 to 2013 and these samples were made tissue microarray. (1) To analyze the expression and differences of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in the above tissues and tissue microarray from ovarian and tubal of HGSC and control women by immunohistochemistry methods. (2) To compare the expression levels of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in ovarian and fallopian tubes of ovarian cancer patients with different pathological types. (3) To analyze the correlations of tubal and ovarian tissue in PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS expression of HGSC. (4) To analyze the factors of the prognosis of ovarian serous cancer in tissue microarray by single factor analysis method.Results:(1) PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS expression was negative in normal ovarian epithelium of control group, but the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS were strongly positive brown in secrete cells of normal fallopian tube epithelium. (2) p53 and RAS expression of fallopian tube epithelium in the epithelial ovarian cancer group were significantly higher than those in the non-epithelial ovarian cancer groups (P<0.05), but the expression of PAX8 and PAX2 in fallopian tube and the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in ovarian tissue was not statistically significant in the groups (P>0.05). PAX8, PAX2 and p53 expression of the ovarian in HGSC group were significantly higher than those in LGSC group (P<0.05), while the expression of RAS was lower in the ovarian of the high-grade group (P<0.05), while the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in fallopian tube was not statistically significant in the groups (P>0.05). (3) There was a significantly positive correlation between fallopian tube and the corresponding ovary of HGSC in PAX8 and PAX2 expression (r=0.422,P=0.045;r=0.693,P=0.000), but not correlation in p53 and RAS expression (r=0.058,P=0.793;r= -0.190,P=0.384). (4) Univariate survival analysis showed that the progression free survival time in patients with ovarian serous cancer group was significantly correlated with the protein expression of PAX8, PAX2 and RAS (P<0.05), but there were not correlated with age, surgical staging, cell differentiation, lymph node metastasis and preoperative chemotherapy and p53 protein expression (P>0.05). The total survival time in patients with ovarian serous cancer group was significantly correlated with the protein expression of PAX8 (P<0.05), but there were not correlated with age,surgical staging, cell differentiation, lymph node metastasis and preoperative chemotherapy and the protein expression of PAX2, RAS and p53 (P>0.05).Conclusions:PAX8, PAX2, p53, RAS are of great significance for the study of origin of HGSC. HGSC may be derived from fallopian tube, but further investigation would be necessary to confirm this. PAX8, PAX2, p53, RAS could be expected to be used as predictors of survival prognosis in patients with ovarian serous cancer. labels: #Carcinoma, Endometrioid#China#Cystadenocarcinoma, Serous#Epithelium#Fallopian Tube Neoplasms#Fallopian Tubes#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Monomeric GTP-Binding Proteins#Neoplasm Proteins#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#PAX2 Transcription Factor#PAX8 Transcription Factor#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'California\xe2\x80\x99s female dentists have experienced many professional\nand societal challenges. Their earliest achievements and successes are examined,including their history in the early California schools of dentistry and dental\nsocieties, their service and professional practice. A diverse selection of femaledentists from California with different professional career paths is profiled. labels: #California#Dentists, Women#Female#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#History, 21st Century#Humans#Schools, Dental'
b'More than 150 years ago, Lucy Hobbs became the first woman in the\ncountry to enter dental school. Today, women represent nearly half of the nation\xe2\x80\x99sentering class, more than a third of the faculty and a growing number of administrative\nleaders, including deans. Evidence illustrates a developing pipeline toward greaternumbers and strength of women in dental education, creating a far-reaching impact on\nteaching, learning and patient care in academia, practice and the profession. labels: #Administrative Personnel#Career Choice#Career Mobility#Dentists, Women#Education, Dental#Faculty, Dental#Female#Humans#Leadership#Professional Role#United States'
b'If trends continue, the majority of U.S. dental students will soon be\nwomen. However, there is little empirical analysis examining gender differences inthe labor supply of dentists and the potential effects on the dental care sector. We\nhelp fill this data void by examining differences in dentists\xe2\x80\x99 hours worked by gender,how this has changed over time and the potential implications for the current and\nfuture aggregate labor supply of dentists in California. labels: #Adult#California#Career Choice#Dentistry#Dentists, Women#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Middle Aged#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Workload'
b'Even though there are more women in the workplace today than\never before and more women than men are now graduating from college, there arerelatively few women who hold leadership positions, be it in government, academics\nor on corporate boards. labels: #Career Choice#Career Mobility#Demography#Dentists, Women#Female#Humans#Leadership#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Conventional drugs used to treat diabetes are too expensive, toxic and rarely available to rural communities. This study was aimed at investigating the phytochemical differences and hypoglycaemic effects (\xce\xb1-amylase enzyme inhibition, glucose uptake, GLUT4 translocation and phosphorylation of MAPKs) of non-defatted and defatted acetone leaf extract of Acacia karroo.METHODS: Qualitative phytochemical analyses of extracts were determined using standard chemical tests and total phenolic contents using the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent method. Presence of antioxidant constituents was determined using DPPH scavenging and ferric reducing power assays. Alpha amylase enzyme inhibitory potential was determined chromogenically and cytotoxicity of the extracts on C2C12 muscle and 3T3-L1 cells using the MTT assay. Glucose uptake by the cells was determined colorimetrically and the most active extract was evaluated for its ability to translocate GLUT4 and MAPKs phosphorylation potential using immunofluorescence microscopy and dot blot analysis, respectively.RESULTS: Phenols, flavonoids, tannins, saponins and cardiac glycosides were detected in both extracts. Defatting of the plant material resulted in low amounts of phenols (0.432\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.014 TAE/mg), DPPH scavenging activity (EC500.40\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.012\xc2\xa0mg/ml), low toxicity and high ferric reducing power (EC501.13\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.017\xc2\xa0mg/ml), \xce\xb1-amylase enzyme inhibition (IC5030.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa03.037\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml) and glucose uptake by both cells. The defatted extract showed an increase in GLUT4 translocation (at 25\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml) with decrease in Akt expression while in combination with insulin showed a decrease in GLUT4 translocation. A finding, that is implicative that the effect of the extract on GLUT4 translocation in C2C12 cells was not Akt dependent. The defatted extract in the absence and presence of insulin show varying phosphorylation levels of CREB, p38, GSK-3 and ERK2 which are important in cell survival and metabolism.CONCLUSION: This study represents the first report on the hypoglycemic potential of A. karroo and presence of compounds that can be exploited in the search for therapeutics with antidiabetic effect. labels: #Acacia#Animals#Antioxidants#Cell Line#Cell Survival#Glucose#Glucose Transporter Type 4#Hypoglycemic Agents#Mice#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Phenols#Phosphorylation#Plant Extracts#Plant Leaves#alpha-Amylases'
b"Swine are a key reservoir host for influenza A viruses (IAVs), with the potential to cause global pandemics in humans. Gaps in surveillance in many of the world's largest swine populations impede our understanding of how novel viruses emerge and expand their spatial range in pigs. Although US swine are intensively sampled, little is known about IAV diversity in Canada's population of ~12\xe2\x80\x89million pigs. By sequencing 168 viruses from multiple regions of Canada, our study reveals that IAV diversity has been underestimated in Canadian pigs for many years. Critically, a new H1 clade has emerged in Canada (H1\xce\xb1-3), with a two-amino acid deletion at H1 positions 146-147, that experienced rapid growth in Manitoba's swine herds during 2014-2015. H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses also exhibit a higher capacity to invade US swine herds, resulting in multiple recent introductions of the virus into the US Heartland following large-scale movements of pigs in this direction. From the Heartland, H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses have disseminated onward to both the east and west coasts of the United States, and may become established in Appalachia. These findings demonstrate how long-distance trading of live pigs facilitates the spread of IAVs, increasing viral genetic diversity and complicating pathogen control. The proliferation of novel H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses also highlights the need for expanded surveillance in a Canadian swine population that has long been overlooked, and may have implications for vaccine design. labels: #Animals#Canada#Evolution, Molecular#Influenza A virus#Molecular Epidemiology#Orthomyxoviridae Infections#Swine#Swine Diseases#United States"
b"In mammals, susceptibility to prion infection is primarily modulated by the host's cellular prion protein (PrPC) sequence. In the sheep scrapie model, a graded scale of susceptibility has been established both in vivo and in vitro based on PrPCamino acids 136, 154 and 171, leading to global breeding programmes to reduce the prevalence of scrapie in sheep. Chronic wasting disease (CWD) resistance in cervids is often characterized as decreased prevalence and/or protracted disease progression in individuals with specific alleles; at present, no PrPCallele conferring absolute resistance in cervids has been identified. To model the susceptibility of various naturally occurring and hypothetical cervid PrPCalleles in vitro, we compared the amplification rates and amyloid extension efficiencies of eight distinct CWD isolates in recombinant cervid PrPCsubstrates using real-time quaking-induced conversion. We hypothesized that the in vitro conversion characteristics of these isolates in cervid substrates would correlate to in vivo susceptibility - permitting susceptibility prediction for the rare alleles found in nature. We also predicted that hypothetical alleles with multiple resistance-associated codons would be more resistant to in vitro conversion than natural alleles with a single resistant codon. Our studies demonstrate that in vitro conversion metrics align with in vivo susceptibility, and that alleles with multiple amino acid substitutions, each influencing resistance independently, do not necessarily contribute additively to conversion resistance. Importantly, we found that the naturally occurring whitetail deer QGAK substrate exhibited the slowest amplification rate among those evaluated, suggesting that further investigation of this allele and its resistance in vivo is warranted. labels: #Alleles#Amyloid#Animals#Deer#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Prion Proteins#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#Wasting Disease, Chronic"
b'By providing pollination services, bees are among the most important insects, both in ecological and economical terms. Combined next-generation and classical sequencing approaches were applied to discover and study new insect viruses potentially harmful to bees. A bioinformatics virus discovery pipeline was used on individual Illumina transcriptomes of 13 wild bees from three species from the genus Halictus and 30 ants from six species of the genera Messor and Aphaenogaster. This allowed the discovery and description of three sequences of a new virus termed Halictus scabiosae Adlikon virus (HsAV). Phylogenetic analyses of ORF1, RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase (RdRp) and capsid genes showed that HsAV is closely related to (+)ssRNA viruses of the unassigned Sinaivirus genus but distant enough to belong to a different new genus we called Halictivirus. In addition, our study of ant transcriptomes revealed the first four sinaivirus sequences from ants (Messor barbarus, M. capitatus and M. concolor). Maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses were performed on a 594 nt fragment of the ORF1/RdRp region from 84 sinaivirus sequences, including 31 new Lake Sinai viruses (LSVs) from honey bees collected in five countries across the globe and the four ant viral sequences. The phylogeny revealed four main clades potentially representing different viral species infecting honey bees. Moreover, the ant viruses belonged to the LSV4 clade, suggesting a possible cross-species transmission between bees and ants. Lastly, wide honey bee screening showed that all four LSV clades have worldwide distributions with no obvious geographical segregation. labels: #Animals#Ants#Bees#Genetic Variation#Insect Viruses#Phylogeny#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Viral Proteins'
b'Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer. Herein we discover that the key glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 isoform (PKM2), but not the related isoform PKM1, is methylated by co-activator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1). PKM2 methylation reversibly shifts the balance of metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis in breast cancer cells. Oxidative phosphorylation depends on mitochondrial calcium concentration, which becomes critical for cancer cell survival when PKM2 methylation is blocked. By interacting with and suppressing the expression of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP3Rs), methylated PKM2 inhibits the influx of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria. Inhibiting PKM2 methylation with a competitive peptide delivered by nanoparticles perturbs the metabolic energy balance in cancer cells, leading to a decrease in cell proliferation, migration and metastasis. Collectively, the CARM1-PKM2 axis serves as a metabolic reprogramming mechanism in tumorigenesis, and inhibiting PKM2 methylation generates metabolic vulnerability to InsP3R-dependent mitochondrial functions. labels: #Animals#CARD Signaling Adaptor Proteins#Calcium#Carcinogenesis#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Endoplasmic Reticulum#Female#Glycolysis#Guanylate Cyclase#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inositol 1,4,5-Trisphosphate Receptors#MCF-7 Cells#Membrane Proteins#Methylation#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Mitochondria#Neoplasm Metastasis#Oxidative Phosphorylation#Thyroid Hormones'
b'In\xc2\xa0vitro differentiation of human intestinal organoids (HIOs) from pluripotent stem cells is an unparalleled system for creating complex, multicellular three-dimensional structures capable of giving rise to tissue analogous to native human tissue. Current methods for generating HIOs rely on growth in an undefined tumour-derived extracellular matrix (ECM), which severely limits the use of organoid technologies for regenerative and translational medicine. Here, we developed a fully defined, synthetic hydrogel based on a four-armed, maleimide-terminated poly(ethylene glycol) macromer that supports robust and highly reproducible in\xc2\xa0vitro growth and expansion of HIOs, such that three-dimensional structures are never embedded in tumour-derived ECM. We also demonstrate that the hydrogel serves as an injection vehicle that can be delivered into injured intestinal mucosa resulting in HIO engraftment and improved colonic wound repair. Together, these studies show proof-of-concept that HIOs may be used therapeutically to treat intestinal injury. labels: #Animals#Cell Differentiation#Cells, Cultured#Colon#Extracellular Matrix#Humans#Hydrogels#Intestinal Mucosa#Intestines#Mice#Organoids#Pluripotent Stem Cells#Regeneration#Wound Healing'
b'Apicobasal polarity is known to affect epithelial morphogenesis and cell differentiation, but it remains unknown how these processes are mechanistically orchestrated. We find that ligand-specific EGFR signalling via PI(3)K and Rac1 autonomously modulates apicobasal polarity to enforce the sequential control of morphogenesis and cell differentiation. Initially, EGF controls pancreatic tubulogenesis by negatively regulating apical polarity induction. Subsequently, betacellulin, working via inhibition of atypical protein kinase C (aPKC), causes apical domain constriction within neurogenin3+endocrine progenitors, which results in reduced Notch signalling, increased neurogenin3 expression, and \xce\xb2-cell differentiation. Notably, the ligand-specific EGFR output is not driven at the ligand level, but seems to have evolved in response to stage-specific epithelial influences. The EGFR-mediated control of \xce\xb2-cell differentiation via apical polarity is also conserved in human neurogenin3+cells. We provide insight into how ligand-specific EGFR signalling coordinates epithelial morphogenesis and cell differentiation via apical polarity dynamics. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Cell Differentiation#Cell Polarity#Epithelial Cells#Insulin-Secreting Cells#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Morphogenesis#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neuropeptides#Organogenesis#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Protein Kinase C#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction#rac1 GTP-Binding Protein'
b'In this retrospective study of 5,536 patients admitted over four years\nat a predoctoral dental clinic for comprehensive care, general dentists identifiedcrown lengthening needs in 584 patients and 760 teeth. Only 51 patients and\n68 teeth actually received crown lengthening procedures. For the other cases,patients discontinued treatment or chose extraction or restoration without crown\nlengthening procedures. Teeth that received crown lengthening procedures weremost likely restored and functioning for at least one year. labels: #Adult#Crown Lengthening#Dental Clinics#Education, Dental#Female#General Practice, Dental#Health Services Needs and Demand#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Therapeutics'
b"This cross-sectional study investigated California dentists\xe2\x80\x99 knowledge\nand opinion of the interface between oral and overall health. A questionnaire andcover letter explaining the purpose of the study were mailed to 1,100 randomly\nselected California licensed general dentists. The survey measured dentists\xe2\x80\x99knowledge and opinions of the interface between oral and overall health as well as\ntheir recommendations for strengthening this interface. Dentists believed that therewas minimal interface between oral and overall health care. labels: #California#Cross-Sectional Studies#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Health Status#Humans#Middle Aged#Oral Health#Practice Patterns, Dentists'#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b"Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) or sleeping sickness is a Neglected Tropical Disease. Long regarded as an invariably fatal disease, there is increasing evidence that infection by T. b. gambiense can result in a wide range of clinical outcomes, including latent infections, which are long lasting infections with no parasites detectable by microscopy. The determinants of this clinical diversity are not well understood but could be due in part to parasite or host genetic diversity in multiple genes, or their interactions. A candidate gene association study was conducted in C\xc3\xb4te d'Ivoire using a case-control design which included a total of 233 subjects (100 active HAT cases, 100 controls and 33 latent infections). All three possible pairwise comparisons between the three phenotypes were tested using 96 SNPs in16 candidate genes (IL1, IL4, IL4R, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL12, IL12R, TNFA, INFG, MIF, APOL1, HPR, CFH, HLA-A and HLA-G). Data from 77 SNPs passed quality control. There were suggestive associations at three loci in IL6 and TNFA in the comparison between active cases and controls, one SNP in each of APOL1, MIF and IL6 in the comparison between latent infections and active cases and seven SNP in IL4, HLA-G and TNFA between latent infections and controls. No associations remained significant after Bonferroni correction, but the Benjamini Hochberg false discovery rate test indicated that there were strong probabilities that at least some of the associations were genuine. The excess of associations with latent infections despite the small number of samples available suggests that these subjects form a distinct genetic cluster different from active HAT cases and controls, although no clustering by phenotype was observed by principle component analysis. This underlines the complexity of the interactions existing between host genetic polymorphisms and parasite diversity. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Apolipoprotein L1#Apolipoproteins#Case-Control Studies#Child#Cote d'Ivoire#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Interleukin-4#Interleukin-6#Intramolecular Oxidoreductases#Lipoproteins, HDL#Macrophage Migration-Inhibitory Factors#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Principal Component Analysis#Trypanosoma brucei gambiense#Trypanosomiasis, African#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Young Adult"
b'With increasing appreciation for the extent and importance of intratumor heterogeneity, much attention in cancer research has focused on profiling heterogeneity on a single patient level. Although true single-cell genomic technologies are rapidly improving, they remain too noisy and costly at present for population-level studies. Bulk sequencing remains the standard for population-scale tumor genomics, creating a need for computational tools to separate contributions of multiple tumor clones and assorted stromal and infiltrating cell populations to pooled genomic data. All such methods are limited to coarse approximations of only a few cell subpopulations, however. In prior work, we demonstrated the feasibility of improving cell type deconvolution by taking advantage of substructure in genomic mixtures via a strategy called simplicial complex unmixing. We improve on past work by introducing enhancements to automate learning of substructured genomic mixtures, with specific emphasis on genome-wide copy number variation (CNV) data, as well as the ability to process quantitative RNA expression data, and heterogeneous combinations of RNA and CNV data. We introduce methods for dimensionality estimation to better decompose mixture model substructure; fuzzy clustering to better identify substructure in sparse, noisy data; and automated model inference methods for other key model parameters. We further demonstrate their effectiveness in identifying mixture substructure in true breast cancer CNV data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Source code is available at https://github.com/tedroman/WSCUnmix. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Chromosome Mapping#Data Interpretation, Statistical#Female#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression Profiling#Genes, Neoplasm#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Reproducibility of Results#Sensitivity and Specificity#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b'OBJECTIVES: Physical exercise may affect levels of blood-based biomarkers. However, exercise status is seldom considered in the interpretation of laboratory results. This study reports the associations between habitual exercise participation and clinical laboratory test results.METHODS: The effects of days per week of aerobic and strength exercise participation on laboratory test results for 26 biomarkers in young adults aged 18 to 34 years (n = 80,111) were evaluated using percentile distribution analyses and multivariate regression.RESULTS: In both men and women, more days per week of either aerobic or strength exercise were significantly associated with lower levels of glucose, hemoglobin A1c, LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, estimated glomerular filtration rate, globulin, and C-reactive protein, and significantly higher levels of HDL cholesterol, creatinine, iron, and percent saturation (all p<.05). Type of exercise or gender influenced the observed relationships with exercise frequency for total cholesterol, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase, uric acid, bilirubin, and iron binding capacity.CONCLUSIONS: Physical exercise shifted the distribution of results into the direction suggestive of better health. Reported relationships may help clinicians and patients to better understand and interpret laboratory results in athletic populations and possibly re-evaluate interpretation of reference intervals for physically active populations. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aerobiosis#Female#Humans#Male#Resistance Training#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Financing of malaria control for displaced populations is limited in scope and duration, making cost-effectiveness analyses relevant but difficult. This study analyses cost-effectiveness of adding prevention through targeted indoor residual spraying (IRS) to case management in Afghan refugee settlements in Pakistan during a prolonged malaria epidemic.METHODS/FINDINGS: An intervention study design was selected, taking a societal perspective. Provider and household costs of vector control and case management were collected from provider records and community survey. Health outcomes (e.g. cases and DALYs averted) were derived and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for cases prevented and DALYs averted calculated. Population, treatment cost, women's time, days of productivity lost, case fatality rate, cases prevented, and DALY assumptions were tested in sensitivity analysis. Malaria incidence peaked at 44/1,000 population in year 2, declining to 14/1,000 in year 5. In total, 370,000 malaria cases, 80% vivax, were diagnosed and treated and an estimated 67,988 vivax cases and 18,578 falciparum and mixed cases prevented. Mean annual programme cost per capita was US$0.56. The additional cost of including IRS over five years per case prevented was US$39; US$50 for vivax (US$43 in years 1-3, US$80 in years 4-5) and US$182 for falciparum (US$139 in years 1-3 and US$680 in years 4-5). Per DALY averted this was US$266 (US$220 in years 1-3 and US$486 in years 4-5) and thus 'highly cost-effective' or cost-effective using WHO and comparison thresholds.CONCLUSIONS: Adding IRS was cost-effective in this moderate endemicity, low mortality setting. It was more cost-effective when transmission was highest, becoming less so as transmission reduced. Because vivax was three times more common than falciparum and the case fatality rate was low, cost-effectiveness estimations for cases prevented appear reliable and more definitive for vivax malaria. labels: #Aerosols#Case Management#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Epidemics#Health Care Costs#Humans#Incidence#Insecticides#Malaria, Falciparum#Malaria, Vivax#Mosquito Control#Pakistan#Refugees"
b'Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) constitutes a global health burden. Efforts to uncover predisposing genetic variation have been considerable, yet detailed knowledge of the underlying pathogenesis remains poor. Here, we constructed a T2D phenotypic-linkage network (T2D-PLN), by integrating diverse gene functional information that highlight genes, which when disrupted in mice, elicit similar T2D-relevant phenotypes. Sensitising the network to T2D-relevant phenotypes enabled significant functional convergence to be detected between genes implicated in monogenic or syndromic diabetes and genes lying within genomic regions associated with T2D common risk. We extended these analyses to a recent multiethnic T2D case-control exome of 12,940 individuals that found no evidence of T2D risk association for rare frequency variants outside of previously known T2D risk loci. Examining associations involving protein-truncating variants (PTV), most at low population frequencies, the T2D-PLN was able to identify a convergent set of biological pathways that were perturbed within four of five independent T2D case/control ethnic sets of 2000 to 5000 exomes each. These same pathways were found to be over-represented among both known monogenic or syndromic diabetes genes and genes within T2D-associated common risk loci. Our study demonstrates convergent biology amongst variants representing different classes of T2D genetic risk. Although convergence was observed at the pathway level, few of the contributing genes were found in common between different cohorts or variant classes, most notably between the exome variant sets which suggests that future rare variant studies may be better focusing their power onto a single population of recent common ancestry. labels: #Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prevalence#Proteome#Reproducibility of Results#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Evolution has equipped life on our planet with an array of extraordinary senses, but perhaps the least understood is magnetoreception. Despite compelling behavioral evidence that this sense exists, the cells, molecules, and mechanisms that mediate sensory transduction remain unknown. So how could animals detect magnetic fields? We introduce and discuss 3 concepts that attempt to address this question: (1) a mechanically sensitive magnetite-based magnetoreceptor, (2) a light-sensitive chemical-based mechanism, and (3) electromagnetic induction within accessory structures. In discussing the merits and issues with each of these ideas, we draw on existing precepts in sensory biology. We argue that solving this scientific mystery will require the development of new genetic tools in magnetosensitive species, coupled with an interdisciplinary approach that bridges physics, behavior, anatomy, physiology, molecular biology, and genetics. labels: #Animals#Electromagnetic Fields#Light#Magnetic Fields#Receptors, Cell Surface'
b'Genome-wide association studies have identified hundreds of risk loci for autoimmune disease, yet only a minority (~25%) share genetic effects with changes to gene expression (eQTLs) in immune cells. RNA-Seq based quantification at whole-gene resolution, where abundance is estimated by culminating expression of all transcripts or exons of the same gene, is likely to account for this observed lack of colocalisation as subtle isoform switches and expression variation in independent exons can be concealed. We performed integrative cis-eQTL analysis using association statistics from twenty autoimmune diseases (560 independent loci) and RNA-Seq data from 373 individuals of the Geuvadis cohort profiled at gene-, isoform-, exon-, junction-, and intron-level resolution in lymphoblastoid cell lines. After stringently testing for a shared causal variant using both the Joint Likelihood Mapping and Regulatory Trait Concordance frameworks, we found that gene-level quantification significantly underestimated the number of causal cis-eQTLs. Only 5.0-5.3% of loci were found to share a causal cis-eQTL at gene-level compared to 12.9-18.4% at exon-level and 9.6-10.5% at junction-level. More than a fifth of autoimmune loci shared an underlying causal variant in a single cell type by combining all five quantification types; a marked increase over current estimates of steady-state causal cis-eQTLs. Causal cis-eQTLs detected at different quantification types localised to discrete epigenetic annotations. We applied a linear mixed-effects model to distinguish cis-eQTLs modulating all expression elements of a gene from those where the signal is only evident in a subset of elements. Exon-level analysis detected disease-associated cis-eQTLs that subtly altered transcription globally across the target gene. We dissected in detail the genetic associations of systemic lupus erythematosus and functionally annotated the candidate genes. Many of the known and novel genes were concealed at gene-level (e.g. IKZF2, TYK2, LYST). Our findings are provided as a web resource. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Cell Line#European Continental Ancestry Group#Gene Expression Profiling#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Linear Models#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Lymphoid Progenitor Cells#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'There is growing interest in studying and engineering integral membrane proteins (MPs) that play key roles in sensing and regulating cellular response to diverse external signals. A MP must be expressed, correctly inserted and folded in a lipid bilayer, and trafficked to the proper cellular location in order to function. The sequence and structural determinants of these processes are complex and highly constrained. Here we describe a predictive, machine-learning approach that captures this complexity to facilitate successful MP engineering and design. Machine learning on carefully-chosen training sequences made by structure-guided SCHEMA recombination has enabled us to accurately predict the rare sequences in a diverse library of channelrhodopsins (ChRs) that express and localize to the plasma membrane of mammalian cells. These light-gated channel proteins of microbial origin are of interest for neuroscience applications, where expression and localization to the plasma membrane is a prerequisite for function. We trained Gaussian process (GP) classification and regression models with expression and localization data from 218 ChR chimeras chosen from a 118,098-variant library designed by SCHEMA recombination of three parent ChRs. We use these GP models to identify ChRs that express and localize well and show that our models can elucidate sequence and structure elements important for these processes. We also used the predictive models to convert a naturally occurring ChR incapable of mammalian localization into one that localizes well. labels: #Cell Membrane#Drug Design#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Ion Channels#Lipid Bilayers#Machine Learning#Rhodopsin#Sequence Analysis, Protein#Structure-Activity Relationship#Subcellular Fractions'
b'BACKGROUND: Once interruption of transmission of lymphatic filariasis is achieved, morbidity prevention and management becomes more important. A study in Brugia malayi filariasis from India has shown sub-clinical lymphatic pathology with potential reversibility. We studied a Wuchereria bancrofti infected population, the major contributor to LF globally.METHODS: Children aged 5-18 years from Odisha, India were screened for W. bancrofti infection and disease. 102 infected children, 50 with filarial disease and 52 without symptoms were investigated by lymphoscintigraphy and then randomized to receive a supervised single oral dose of DEC and albendazole which was repeated either annually or semi-annually. The lymphatic pathology was evaluated six monthly for two years.FINDINGS: Baseline lymphoscintigraphy showed abnormality in lower limb lymphatics in 80% of symptomatic (40/50) and 63\xc2\xb75% (33/52) of asymptomatic children. Progressive improvement in baseline pathology was seen in 70\xc2\xb78, 87\xc2\xb73, 98\xc2\xb76, and 98\xc2\xb76% of cases at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months follow up, while in 4\xc2\xb72, 22\xc2\xb75, 47\xc2\xb79 and 64\xc2\xb78%, pathology reverted to normal. This was independent of age (p = 0\xc2\xb727), symptomatic status (p = 0\xc2\xb757) and semi-annual/bi-annual dosing (p = 0\xc2\xb746). Six of eleven cases showed clinical reduction in lymphedema of legs.INTERPRETATION: A significant proportion of a young W. bancrofti infected population exhibited lymphatic pathology which was reversible with annual dosage of DEC and albendazole. This provides evidence for morbidity prevention&treatment of early lymphedema. It can also be used as a tool to improve community compliance during mass drug administration.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov No CTRI/2013/10/004121. labels: #Administration, Oral#Adolescent#Albendazole#Animals#Asymptomatic Infections#Child#Child, Preschool#Diethylcarbamazine#Elephantiasis, Filarial#Female#Filaricides#Humans#India#Lymphatic System#Lymphedema#Lymphoscintigraphy#Male#Treatment Outcome#Wuchereria bancrofti'
b"The trophic behavior of marine predators varies according to the level of competition to which they are exposed. In general, populations that inhabit lower productivity systems face a strong intraspecific competition, which contributes to the development of different foraging strategies to maximize nutritional efficiency. Given the high trophic flexibility of Zalophus wollebaeki, this species is considered appropriate for the analysis of such behavior. Furthermore, this trophic flexibility has allowed them to persist in a seemingly marginal ecosystem. In this study, we used a comparative analysis of variables (diet and dive behavior) related to Z. wollebaeki trophic niche plasticity to better understand their foraging ecology, using techniques such scat analysis, satellite telemetry and complementarily an isotopic analysis. Scat analysis revealed intra-population variation in their diet, represented by prey from different environments (epipelagic and benthic). These results are supported by the animals' locations at sea and diving profiles. Global Positioning System (GPS) and time-depth recorder (TDR) records showed the existence of two groups, with differing feeding areas and diving behavior. Also the \xce\xb415N values showed differences in the trophic level at which the species fed. These results constitute a relevant finding in the evolutionary behavior of the species, showing that Z. wollebaeki has developed a high degree of foraging flexibility, thus increasing its survival rate in an ecosystem that is highly demanding in terms of resource availability. labels: #Animals#Ecuador#Feeding Behavior#Principal Component Analysis#Remote Sensing Technology#Sea Lions#Species Specificity"
b'BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are epigenetically involved in regulating gene expression. They may be of importance in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The aim of this study was to determine the role of miRNAs by their specific blocking in the CD4+CB45RBhi T-cell transfer model of chronic experimental colitis.METHODS: Colitis caused by transfer of WT CD4+CD45RBhi T cells in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice shares many features with human IBD. Colonic miRNA expression levels were measured at three time points in colitic mice, where a time-dependent upregulation of multiple miRNAs was seen. To inhibit these miRNAs, specific locked-nucleic-acid-modified (LNA) oligonucleotides were administered in further experiments at the moment the mice demonstrated the first signs of colitis. As controls, PBS and a scrambled sequence of anti-miRNA were used. Genome-wide expression analyses were also performed in order to detect candidate target genes of miR-142-5p, of which inhibition resulted in most effective amelioration of colitis.RESULTS: Anti-miR-142-5p reduced colitis and related wasting disease when administered in the T-cell transfer model, reflected in reduced weight loss and a lower disease activity index (DAI). In further validation experiments we also observed a higher survival rate and less colonic histological inflammation in the antagomir-treated mice. Moreover, by genome-wide expression analyses, we found downstream activation of the anti-inflammatory IL10RA pathway, including three genes also found in the top-20 candidate target genes of miR-142-5p.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, CD4+CD45RBhi-transfer colitis induces miR-142-5p. Blocking miR-142-5p reduced colitis and prevented wasting disease, possibly by activation of the IL10RA pathway. labels: #Animals#Colitis#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#MicroRNAs#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: Mass drug administration (MDA) using praziquantel is the WHO-recommended approach for control of schistosomiasis. However, few studies have compared the impact of different schedules of MDA on the resultant infection levels. We wished to evaluate whether annual MDA was more effective than less frequent treatments for reducing community-level prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma mansoni infections.METHODS: We performed a cluster randomized trial (ISRCTN 14849830) of 3 different MDA frequencies over a 5 year period in 75 villages with moderate (10%-24%) initial prevalence of S. mansoni in school children in western Kenya. Praziquantel was distributed by school teachers to students either annually, the first 2 years, or every other year over a 4 year period. Prevalence and intensity of infection were measured by stool examination in 9-12 year old students using the Kato-Katz method at baseline, each treatment year, and for the final evaluation at year 5. S. mansoni prevalence and intensity were also measured in first year students at baseline and year 5.RESULTS: Twenty-five schools were randomly assigned to each arm. S. mansoni prevalence and infection intensity in 9-12 year old students significantly decreased within each arm from baseline to year 5 but there were no differences between arms. There were no differences in infection levels in first year students either within or between arms.CONCLUSIONS: Strategies employing 2 or 4 rounds of MDA had a similar impact in schools with moderate initial prevalence, suggesting that schistosomiasis control can be sustained by school-based MDA, even if provided only every other year. labels: #Animals#Child#Drug Administration Schedule#Feces#Female#Humans#Kenya#Male#Praziquantel#Prevalence#Schistosoma mansoni#Schistosomiasis mansoni#Schistosomicides#Schools#Students#Time Factors#World Health Organization'
b"BACKGROUND: The prevalence of unplanned pregnancy in Saudi Arabia has not been thoroughly investigated.OBJECTIVE: To conduct a psychometric evaluation study of the Arabic version of the London Measure of Unplanned Pregnancy (LMUP).METHODS: To evaluate the psychometric properties of the LMUP, we conducted a self-administered online survey among 796 ever-married Saudi women aged 20-49 years, and a re-test survey among 24 women. The psychometric properties evaluated included content validity measured by content validity index (CVI), structural validity assessed by exploratory factor analysis (EFA), substantive validity assessed by hypothesis testing, contextual stability for the test-retest assessed by weighted Kappa, and internal consistency assessed by Cronbach's alpha.RESULTS: The psychometric analysis of the Arabic version of LMUP exhibited valid and reliable properties. The CVIs for individual items and at the scale level were>0.7. EFA confirmed a unidimensional extraction of the scale item. Hypothesis testing confirmed expected associations. The tool was stable with weighted kappa = 0.78 and Cronbach's alpha = 0.88.CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS: In this study, the validity and reliability of the Arabic version of the LMUP were confirmed according to well-known psychometric criteria. This LMUP version can be used in research studies among Arabic-speaking women to measure unplanned pregnancy and investigate correlates and outcomes related to unplanned pregnancy. labels: #Adult#Family Planning Services#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Pregnancy#Psychometrics#Saudi Arabia#Young Adult"
b'The pig spine is widely used as a large animal model for preclinical research in human medicine to test new spinal implants and surgical procedures. Among them, pedicle screw is one of the most common method of fixation of those implants. However, the pedicle of the porcine vertebra is not as well defined and not as large as the pedicle of the human vertebra. Therefore, the position of the screw should be adapted to the pig and not merely transposed based on the literature on humans. The purpose of this study is to determine the characteristics of the optimum implantation corridors for pedicle screws in the thoracolumbar spine of piglets of different ages using computed tomography (CT) and to determine the size and length of these corridors in pigs of different ages. CT scans from five groups of age: 6, 10, 14, 18, and 26 weeks were reviewed. For each thoracolumbar vertebrae, the pedicle width, pedicle axis length, and the pedicle angle was measured for the left and right pedicle. A total of 326 thoracic vertebrae and 126 lumbar vertebrae were included in the study. Pedicles are statistically larger but not longer for the lumbar vertebrae. An important variation of the pedicle angle is observed along the spine. In all pigs, an abrupt modification of the pedicle angle between T10 and T11 was observed, which corresponds to the level of the anticlinal vertebra which is the vertebra for which the spinous process is nearly perpendicular to the vertebral body. In conclusion, this study provides a quantitative database of pedicle screw implantation corridors in pigs of different ages. When using pedicle screws in experimental studies in pigs, these results should be considered for selecting the most suitable implants for the study but also to ensure a correct and safer screw position. Improving study procedures may limit postoperative complications and pain, thereby limiting the use of live animals. labels: #Animals#Lumbar Vertebrae#Pedicle Screws#Swine#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b'Neuropilin-1 (Nrp1) encodes the transmembrane cellular receptor neuropilin-1, which is associated with cardiovascular and neuronal development and was within the peak SNP interval on chromosome 8 in our prior GWAS study on age-related hearing loss (ARHL) in mice. In this study, we generated and characterized an inner ear-specific Nrp1 conditional knockout (CKO) mouse line because Nrp1 constitutive knockouts are embryonic lethal. In situ hybridization demonstrated weak Nrp1 mRNA expression late in embryonic cochlear development, but increased expression in early postnatal stages when cochlear hair cell innervation patterns have been shown to mature. At postnatal day 5, Nrp1 CKO mice showed disorganized outer spiral bundles and enlarged microvessels of the stria vascularis (SV) but normal spiral ganglion cell (SGN) density and presynaptic ribbon body counts; however, we observed enlarged SV microvessels, reduced SGN density, and a reduction of presynaptic ribbons in the outer hair cell region of 4-month-old Nrp1 CKO mice. In addition, we demonstrated elevated hearing thresholds of the 2-month-old and 4-month-old Nrp1 CKO mice at frequencies ranging from 4 to 32kHz when compared to 2-month-old mice. These data suggest that conditional loss of Nrp1 in the inner ear leads to progressive hearing loss in mice. We also demonstrated that mice with a truncated variant of Nrp1 show cochlear axon guidance defects and that exogenous semaphorin-3A, a known neuropilin-1 receptor agonist, repels SGN axons in vitro. These data suggest that Neuropilin-1/Semaphorin-3A signaling may also serve a role in neuronal pathfinding in the developing cochlea. In summary, our results here support a model whereby Neuropilin-1/Semaphorin-3A signaling is critical for the functional and morphological integrity of the cochlea and that Nrp1 may play a role in ARHL. labels: #Animals#Female#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Neuropilin-1#Semaphorin-3A#Signal Transduction#Spiral Ganglion'
b'BACKGROUND: Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted nematode that can replicate within its host, leading to long-lasting and potentially fatal infections. It is ubiquitous and highly prevalent in Cambodia. The extent of morbidity associated with S. stercoralis infection is difficult to assess due to the broad spectrum of symptoms and, thus, remains uncertain.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Clinical signs were compared among S. stercoralis infected vs. non-infected participants in a cross-sectional survey conducted in 2012 in eight villages of Northern Cambodia, and before and after treatment with a single oral dose of ivermectin (200\xce\xbcg/kg BW) among participants harboring S. stercoralis. Growth retardation among schoolchildren and adolescents was assessed using height-for-age and thinness using body mass index-for-age. S. stercoralis prevalence was 31.1% among 2,744 participants. Urticaria (55% vs. 47%, OR: 1.4, 95% CI: 1.1-1.6) and itching (52% vs. 48%, OR: 1.2, 95% CI: 1.0-1.4) were more frequently reported by infected participants. Gastrointestinal, dermatological, and respiratory symptoms were less prevalent in 103 mono-infected participants after treatment. Urticaria (66% vs. 11%, OR: 0.03, 95% CI: 0.01-0.1) and abdominal pain (81 vs. 27%, OR: 0.07, 95% CI: 0.02-0.2) mostly resolved by treatment. S. stercoralis infection was associated with stunting, with 2.5-fold higher odds in case of heavy infection.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The morbidity associated with S. stercoralis confirmed the importance of gastrointestinal and dermatological symptoms unrelated to parasite load, and long-term chronic effects when associated with malnutrition. The combination of high prevalence and morbidity calls for the integration of S. stercoralis into ongoing STH control measures in Cambodia. labels: #Adolescent#Animals#Antinematodal Agents#Cambodia#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#Feces#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#Ivermectin#Male#Morbidity#Prevalence#Rural Population#Strongyloides stercoralis#Strongyloidiasis'
b'Supplementation of exogenous enzymes in chickens has been widely practiced, yet mechanisms responsible are not fully delineated. To investigate the effects of the dietary lysozyme on the growth performance and immunity of broiler chickens, a total of 120 one-day-old Ross 308 chicks were randomly allocated into four groups, each having three replicates (30 birds/group). The chicks were fed the starter (1-21 d) and grower (22-35 d) diets supplemented with 0 (control), 70 (LYZ70), 90 (LYZ90) and 120 (LYZ120) g of lysozyme 10%\xc2\xae per ton of basal diet for five weeks. The results revealed significant improvement in the growth performance and gut environment. There were significant decreases (P<0.05 or 0.01) in the harmful fecal Coliform and Clostridia and an increase (P \xcb\x82 0.05) in the beneficial Lactobacillus in the lysozyme-supplemented groups, especially in LYZ90. Moreover, the mRNA expressions of Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), interferon-gamma (IFN-\xce\xb3), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and interleukin-18 (IL-18) were upregulated in response to lysozyme supplementation. In comparison to control, LYZ90 fed birds had a significant increase (P<0.01) in the GSH-Px gene expression that enhances the antioxidant status of the gut. Expression of the biomarkers involved in the gut non-specific immunity indicated significant increases in the mRNA expression of INF-\xce\xb3 (P<0.001), IL-10 (P<0.001), and IL-18 (P<0.05) in LYZ90 group. Also, serum globulin levels were significantly elevated (P \xcb\x82 0.05) in lysozyme-supplemented groups. Histologically, the intestinal villi length and crypts depth were also enhanced (P \xcb\x82 0.05) by dietary lysozyme supplementation. In conclusion, supplementation of broiler chickens with exogenous lysozyme, especially at 90 g of lysozyme per ton of basal diet dose rate, improved the growth performance, gut antioxidant status, and nonspecific immunity of broiler chickens. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Chickens#Diet#Muramidase#RNA, Messenger'
b'OBJECTIVE: Letters from the hospital to the general practitioner are important for maintaining continuity of care. Although doctors feel letters are important, they are often not written on time. To improve the number and timeliness of letters sent from the hospital outpatient department to the general practitioner using an email-based intervention evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Users were interviewed to determine the requirements for the intervention. Due to high between-doctor variation at baseline, doctors were matched for baseline performance and pair-randomized. The effectiveness of the intervention was assessed using meta-analytic methods. The primary outcome was the number of patient visits which should have generated a letter that had a letter by 90 days after the visit. Satisfaction was assessed with an anonymous survey.RESULTS: The intervention consisted of a monthly email reminder for each doctor containing a list of his or her patients who were (over)due for a letter. Doctors in the intervention group had 21% fewer patient visits which did not have a letter by 90 days (OR = 5.7, p = 0.0020). Satisfaction with the system was very high.DISCUSSION: This study examines the effect of a simple reminder in absence of other interventions, and provides an example of an effective non-interruptive decision support intervention.CONCLUSION: A simple email reminder improved the number and timeliness of letters from the outpatient department to the general practitioner, and was viewed as a useful service by its users. labels: #General Practitioners#Humans#Outpatient Clinics, Hospital#Patient Satisfaction#Time and Motion Studies'
b'During running at a constant speed, the optimal stride frequency (SF) can be derived from the u-shaped relationship between SF and heart rate (HR). Changing SF towards the optimum of this relationship is beneficial for energy expenditure and may positively change biomechanics of running. In the current study, the effects of speed on the optimal SF and the nature of the u-shaped relation were empirically tested using Generalized Estimating Equations. To this end, HR was recorded from twelve healthy (4 males, 8 females) inexperienced runners, who completed runs at three speeds. The three speeds were 90%, 100% and 110% of self-selected speed. A self-selected SF (SFself) was determined for each of the speeds prior to the speed series. The speed series started with a free-chosen SF condition, followed by five imposed SF conditions (SFself, 70, 80, 90, 100 strides\xc2\xb7min-1) assigned in random order. The conditions lasted 3 minutes with 2.5 minutes of walking in between. SFself increased significantly (p<0.05) with speed with averages of 77, 79, 80 strides\xc2\xb7min-1 at 2.4, 2.6, 2.9 m\xc2\xb7s-1, respectively). As expected, the relation between SF and HR could be described by a parabolic curve for all speeds. Speed did not significantly affect the curvature, nor did it affect optimal SF. We conclude that over the speed range tested, inexperienced runners may not need to adapt their SF to running speed. However, since SFself were lower than the SFopt of 83 strides\xc2\xb7min-1, the runners could reduce HR by increasing their SFself. labels: #Adult#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Running#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Beta-blockers are first-line therapy in patients with congenital long-QT syndrome (LQTS).OBJECTIVE: This study sought to determine the differences in effectiveness of beta-blockers on risk reduction according to LQTS genotype.METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL databases to investigate the use of beta-blockers (atenolol, nadolol, propranolol, and metoprolol) in patients with LQTS. Hazard ratio (HR) and relative risk (RR) were extracted or calculated from studies reporting cardiac events (syncope, aborted cardiac arrest (ACA), or sudden cardiac death (SCD)).RESULTS: Among 2,113 articles searched, 10 studies (7 registry-based cohort studies (Cohort) and 3 interrupted time series studies (ITS)) involving 9,727 patients were included. In a meta-analysis using a random-effect model, the use of beta-blocker was associated with significant risk reduction of all cardiac events (HR 0.49, p<0.001 in Cohort; RR 0.39, p<0.001 in ITS) and serious cardiac events (ACA or SCD) (HR 0.47, p<0.001 in Cohort). In both LQT1 and LQT2, the risk was reduced with beta-blocker therapy in Cohort (HR 0.59 in LQT1; HR 0.39 in LQT2) as well as ITS (RR 0.29 in LQT1; RR 0.48 in LQT2). Among the beta-blockers, nadolol showed a significant risk reduction in both LQT1 and LQT2 (HR 0.47 and 0.27, respectively), whereas atenolol and propranolol decreased the risk only in LQT1 (HR 0.36 and 0.46, respectively). Metoprolol showed no significant reduction in either genotype. In LQT3, beta-blocker therapy was not as effective as LQT1 or LQT2; however, it was inconclusive due to data insufficiency.CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis showed that beta-blockers were effective in reducing risk of cardiac events in patients with LQTS. Among them, nadolol was effective in LQT1 and LQT2, whereas other drugs showed different effectiveness depending on LQT genotype. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Female#Genotype#Humans#Long QT Syndrome#Male'
b'Rhododendron spp. is an important ornamental species that is widely cultivated for landscape worldwide. Heat stress is a major obstacle for its cultivation in south China. Previous studies on rhododendron principally focused on its physiological and biochemical processes, which are involved in a series of stress tolerance. However, molecular or genetic properties of rhododendron\'s response to heat stress are still poorly understood. The phenotype and chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics parameters of four rhododendron cultivars were compared under normal or heat stress conditions, and a cultivar with highest heat tolerance, "Yanzhimi" (R. obtusum) was selected for transcriptome sequencing. A total of 325,429,240 high quality reads were obtained and assembled into 395,561 transcripts and 92,463 unigenes. Functional annotation showed that 38,724 unigenes had sequence similarity to known genes in at least one of the proteins or nucleotide databases used in this study. These 38,724 unigenes were categorized into 51 functional groups based on Gene Ontology classification and were blasted to 24 known cluster of orthologous groups. A total of 973 identified unigenes belonged to 57 transcription factor families, including the stress-related HSF, DREB, ZNF, and NAC genes. Photosynthesis was significantly enriched in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway, and the changed expression pattern was illustrated. The key pathways and signaling components that contribute to heat tolerance in rhododendron were revealed. These results provide a potentially valuable resource that can be used for heat-tolerance breeding. labels: #Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genes, Plant#Photosynthesis#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Rhododendron#Transcription, Genetic#Transcriptome'
b'The development of brain imaging techniques, in particular functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), made it possible to non-invasively study the hemispheric lateralization of cognitive brain functions in large cohorts. Comprehensive models of hemispheric lateralization are, however, still missing and should not only account for the hemispheric specialization of individual brain functions, but also for the interactions among different lateralized cognitive processes (e.g., language and visuospatial processing). This calls for robust and reliable paradigms to study hemispheric lateralization for various cognitive functions. While numerous reliable imaging paradigms have been developed for language, which represents the most prominent left-lateralized brain function, the reliability of imaging paradigms investigating typically right-lateralized brain functions, such as visuospatial processing, has received comparatively less attention. In the present study, we aimed to establish an fMRI paradigm that robustly and reliably identifies right-hemispheric activation evoked by visuospatial processing in individual subjects. In a first study, we therefore compared three frequently used paradigms for assessing visuospatial processing and evaluated their utility to robustly detect right-lateralized brain activity on a single-subject level. In a second study, we then assessed the test-retest reliability of the so-called Landmark task-the paradigm that yielded the most robust results in study 1. At the single-voxel level, we found poor reliability of the brain activation underlying visuospatial attention. This suggests that poor signal-to-noise ratios can become a limiting factor for test-retest reliability. This represents a common detriment of fMRI paradigms investigating visuospatial attention in general and therefore highlights the need for careful considerations of both the possibilities and limitations of the respective fMRI paradigm-in particular, when being interested in effects at the single-voxel level. Notably, however, when focusing on the reliability of measures of hemispheric lateralization (which was the main goal of study 2), we show that hemispheric dominance (quantified by the lateralization index, LI, with |LI|>0.4) of the evoked activation could be robustly determined in more than 62% and, if considering only two categories (i.e., left, right), in more than 93% of our subjects. Furthermore, the reliability of the lateralization strength (LI) was "fair" to "good". In conclusion, our results suggest that the degree of right-hemispheric dominance during visuospatial processing can be reliably determined using the Landmark task, both at the group and single-subject level, while at the same time stressing the need for future refinements of experimental paradigms and more sophisticated fMRI data acquisition techniques. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Photic Stimulation#Reproducibility of Results#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Opuntia plants grow naturally in areas where temperatures are extreme and highly variable in the day during the entire year. These plants survive through different adaptations to respond to adverse environmental conditions. Despite this capability, it is unknown how CAM photosynthetic activity and growth in Opuntia plantlets is affected by constant heat or cold. Therefore, the main objective of this research was to evaluate the short-term effect of high (40\xc2\xb0C) and low (4\xc2\xb0C) continuous temperatures on the photosynthetic efficiency, the organic acid content (malic acid) and the relative growth rate (RGR) in seven-month-old Opuntia streptacantha plantlets during 5, 10, and 15 days. Chlorophyll fluorescence analysis allowed us to determine that high temperatures negatively impact the photosynthetic efficiency of O. streptacantha plantlets, which exhibited the lowest values of maximum quantum efficiency of the photosystem II (Fv/Fm = 52%, Fv/F0 = 85%), operational quantum yield of PS (\xce\xa6PSII = 65%) and relative electron transport rate (rETR = 65%), as well as highest values of basal fluorescence (F0 = 226%) during 15 days of treatment. Similarly, low temperatures decreased Fv/Fm (16%), Fv/F0 (50%), \xce\xa6PSII and rETR (16%). High temperatures also decreased nocturnal acidification in approximately 34-50%, whereas low temperatures increased it by 30-36%. Additionally, both continuous temperatures affected drastically diurnal consumption of malic acid, which was related to a significant RGR inhibition, where the specific photosynthetic structure area component was the most affected. Our results allowed determining that, despite the high tolerance to extreme temperatures described for Opuntia plants, young individuals of O. streptacantha suffered photosynthetic impairment that led to the inhibition of their growth. Thus, the main findings reported in this study can help to predict the potential impact of climatic change on the establishment and survival of succulent species of arid and semiarid regions of Mexico. labels: #Acids#Chlorophyll#Circadian Rhythm#Fluorescence#Opuntia#Photosynthesis#Temperature'
b'BACKGROUND: Country-specific forecasts of the growing non-communicable disease (NCD) burden in ageing HIV-positive patients will be key to guide future HIV policies. We provided the first national forecasts for Italy and the Unites States of America (USA) and quantified direct cost of caring for these increasingly complex patients.METHODS AND SETTING: We adapted an individual-based model of ageing HIV-positive patients to Italy and the USA, which followed patients on HIV-treatment as they aged and developed NCDs (chronic kidney disease, diabetes, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, non-AIDS malignancies, myocardial infarctions and strokes). The models were parameterised using data on 7,469 HIV-positive patients from the Italian Cohort Na\xc3\xafve to Antiretrovirals Foundation Study and 3,748 commercially-insured patients in the USA and extrapolated to national level using national surveillance data.RESULTS: The model predicted that mean age of HIV-positive patients will increase from 46 to 59 in Italy and from 49 to 58 in the USA in 2015-2035. The proportion of patients in Italy and the USA diagnosed with \xe2\x89\xa51 NCD is estimated to increase from 64% and 71% in 2015 to 89% and 89% by 2035, respectively, driven by moderate cardiovascular disease (CVD) (hypertension and dyslipidaemia), diabetes and malignancies in both countries. NCD treatment costs as a proportion of total direct HIV costs will increase from 11% to 23% in Italy and from 40% to 56% in the USA in 2015-2035.CONCLUSIONS: HIV patient profile in Italy and the USA is shifting to older patients diagnosed with multiple co-morbidity. This will increase NCD treatment costs and require multi-disciplinary patient management. labels: #Adult#Female#HIV Infections#Health Care Costs#Humans#Italy#Male#Models, Theoretical#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Sirtuins are NAD+ dependent deacetylases, which regulate mitochondrial energy metabolism as well as cellular response to stress. The NAD/NADH-system plays a crucial role in oxidative phosphorylation linking sirtuins and the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Furthermore, sirtuins are able to directly deacetylate and activate different complexes of the respiratory chain. This prompted us to analyse sirtuin levels in skin fibroblasts from patients with cytochrome c-oxidase (COX) deficiency and to test the impact of different pharmaceutical activators of sirtuins (SRT1720, paeonol) to modulate sirtuins and possibly respiratory chain enzymes in patient cells in vitro.METHODS: We assayed intracellular levels of sirtuin 1 and the mitochondrial sirtuins SIRT3 and SIRT4 in human fibroblasts from patients with COX- deficiency. Furthermore, sirtuins were measured after inhibiting complex IV in healthy control fibroblasts by cyanide and after incubation with activators SRT1720 and paeonol. To determine the effect of sirtuin inhibition at the cellular level we measured total cellular acetylation (control and patient cells, with and without treatment) by Western blot.RESULTS: We observed a significant decrease in cellular levels of all three sirtuins at the activity, protein and transcriptional level (by 15% to 50%) in COX-deficient cells. Additionally, the intracellular concentration of NAD+ was reduced in patient cells. We mimicked the biochemical phenotype of COX- deficiency by incubating healthy fibroblasts with cyanide and observed reduced sirtuin levels. A pharmacological activation of sirtuins resulted in normalized sirtuin levels in patient cells. Hyper acetylation was also reversible after treatment with sirtuin activators. Pharmacological modulation of sirtuins resulted in altered respiratory chain complex activities.CONCLUSIONS: We found inhibition of situins 1, 3 and 4 at activity, protein and transcriptional levels in fibroblasts from patient with COX-deficiency. Pharmacological activators were able to restore reduced sirtuin levels and thereby modulate respiratory chain activities. labels: #Acetylation#Electron Transport#Electron Transport Complex IV#Humans#Mitochondria#Reactive Oxygen Species#Sirtuins#Sodium Cyanide'
b"Rabies is a preventable fatal disease that causes about 61,000 human deaths annually around the world, mostly in developing countries. In Africa, several studies have shown that vaccination of pets is effective in controlling the disease. An annual vaccination coverage of 70% is recommended by the World Health Organization as a control threshold. The effective control of rabies requires vaccination coverage of owned dogs. Identification of the factors determining dog owners' choice to vaccinate is necessary for evidence-based policy-making. However, for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the limited data on rabies vaccination coverage makes it difficult for its control and formulation of appropriate policies. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Kinshasa (Lemba commune) with dog-owning households and owned dogs as study populations. The association between dog vaccination and independent factors (household socio-demographics characteristics, dog characteristics, knowledge of rabies and location of veterinary offices/clinics) was performed with Epi-info 7. The Odds Ratio (OR) and p-value<0.05 were used to determine levels of significance. A total of 166 households owning dogs and 218 owned dogs were investigated. 47% of the dogs had been vaccinated within one year preceding the survey which is higher than the critical coverage (25 to 40%) necessary to interrupt rabies transmission but below the 70% threshold recommended by WHO for control. The determinants of vaccination included socio-economic level of the household (OR = 2.9, p<0.05), formal education level of the dog owner (OR = 4, p<0.05), type of residence (OR = 4.6, p<0.05), knowledge of rabies disease (OR = 8.0, p<0.05), knowledge of location of veterinary offices/clinics (OR = 3.4, p<0.05), dog gender (OR = 1.6, p<0.05) and dog breed (OR = 2.1, p<0.05). This study shows that the vaccination coverage in this area can easily reach the WHO threshold if supplemented by mass vaccination campaigns. labels: #Animals#Democratic Republic of the Congo#Dogs#Humans#Ownership#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines#Socioeconomic Factors#Vaccination"
b'OBJECTIVES: The Northwestern University SuperAging Program studies a rare cohort of individuals over age 80 with episodic memory ability at least as good as middle-age adults to determine what factors contribute to their elite memory performance. As psychological well-being is positively correlated with cognitive performance in older adults, the present study examined whether aspects of psychological well-being distinguish cognitive SuperAgers from their cognitively average-for-age, same-age peers.METHOD: Thirty-one SuperAgers and 19 cognitively average-for-age peers completed the Ryff 42-item Psychological Well-Being questionnaire, comprised of 6 subscales: Autonomy, Positive Relations with Others, Environmental Mastery, Personal Growth, Purpose in Life, and Self-Acceptance.RESULTS: The groups did not differ on demographic factors, including estimated premorbid intelligence. Consistent with inclusion criteria, SuperAgers had better episodic memory scores. Compared to cognitively average-for-age peers, SuperAgers endorsed greater levels of Positive Relations with Others. The groups did not differ on other PWB-42 subscales.DISCUSSION: While SuperAgers and their cognitively average-for-age peers reported similarly high levels of psychological well-being across multiple dimensions, SuperAgers endorsed greater levels of positive social relationships. This psychological feature could conceivably have a biological relationship to the greater thickness of the anterior cingulate gyrus and higher density of von Economo neurons previously reported in SuperAgers. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Humans#Male#Memory, Episodic#Neuropsychological Tests#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'Human malignant mesothelioma is a chemoresistant tumour that develops from mesothelial cells, commonly associated with asbestos exposure. Malignant mesothelioma incidence rates in European countries are still rising and Australia has one of the highest burdens of malignant mesothelioma on a population basis in the world. Therapy using systemic delivery of free cytotoxic agents is associated with many undesirable side effects due to non-selectivity, and is thus dose-limited which limits its therapeutic potential. Therefore, increasing the selectivity of anti-cancer agents has the potential to dramatically enhance drug efficacy and reduce toxicity. EnGeneIC Dream Vectors (EDV) are antibody-targeted nanocells which can be loaded with cytotoxic drugs and delivered to specific cancer cells via bispecific antibodies (BsAbs) which target the EDV and a cancer cell-specific receptor, simultaneously. BsAbs were designed to target doxorubicin-loaded EDVs to cancer cells via cell surface mesothelin (MSLN). Flow cytometry was used to investigate cell binding and induction of apoptosis, and confocal microscopy to visualize internalization. Mouse xenograft models were used to assess anti-tumour effects in vivo, followed by immunohistochemistry for ex vivo evaluation of proliferation and necrosis. BsAb-targeted, doxorubicin-loaded EDVs were able to bind to and internalize within mesothelioma cells in vitro via MSLN receptors and induce apoptosis. In mice xenografts, the BsAb-targeted, doxorubicin-loaded EDVs suppressed the tumour growth and also decreased cell proliferation. Thus, the use of MSLN-specific antibodies to deliver encapsulated doxorubicin can provide a novel and alternative modality for treatment of mesothelioma. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Mesothelioma#Mice#Receptors, Cell Surface#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'OBJECTIVE: To assess whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is superior to primary debulking surgery (PDS) with regard to optimal cytoreduction, peri-operative morbidity, mortality, and quality of life (QOL) in advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).METHODS: We searched the PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Web of Science, Registers of Clinical Trials for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing NACT to PDS in women with Federation of International Gynaecologists and Obstetricians stage \xe2\x85\xa2-\xe2\x85\xa3 EOC. RevMan 5.3 software was utilized for statistical analysis.RESULTS: Four RCTs involving 1,607 women with advanced EOC were included. Compared with PDS, NACT provided a higher rate of complete cytoreduction (risk ratio [RR], 1.95; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.33 to 2.87), optimal cytoreduction (RR: 1.61 [95%CI: 1.05 to 2.47]), but there was no significant difference in residual disease 0-1 cm (p = 0.49). NACT was associated with lower peri-operative morbidity with respect to infection (RR: 0.30 [95% CI: 0.16 to 0.56]), gastrointestinal fistula (RR: 0.24 [95% CI: 0.06 to 0.95]), any grade 3 or 4 adverse event (RR: 0.29 [95% CI: 0.11 to 0.78]), and less post-surgical death within 28 days (RR: 0.14 [95% CI: 0.04 to 0.49]). NACT provided better QOL in terms of fatigue (weight mean difference [WMD], -3.28; [95% CI: -3.99 to -2.57]), role functioning (WMD: 5.29 [95% CI: 4.44 to 6.14]), emotional functioning (WMD: 6.19 [95% CI: 5.57 to 6.82]), and cognitive functioning (WMD: 1.02 [95% CI: 0.43 to 1.61]) at 6-month follow-up compared with PDS.CONCLUSIONS: NACT is associated with superior optimal cytoreduction, lower peri-operative morbidity as well as post-surgical mortality, and better QOL compared to initial surgery in patients with advanced EOC. Future research should focus on improving the efficacy of NACT. labels: #Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Humans#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#Quality of Life#Treatment Outcome'
b"Severe influenza infections are featured by acute lung injury, a syndrome of increased pulmonary microvascular permeability. A growing number of evidences have shown that influenza A virus induces cytoskeletal rearrangement and permeability increase in endothelial cells. Although miRNA's involvement in the regulation of influenza virus infection and endothelial cell (EC) function has been well documented, little is known about the miRNA profiles in influenza-infected endothelial cells. Using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) as cell models, the present study aims to explore the differential miRNAs in influenza virus-infected ECs and analyze their target genes involved in EC permeability regulation. As the results showed, permeability increased and F-actin cytoskeleton reorganized after HUVECs infected with influenza A virus (CA07 or PR8) at 30 MOI. MicroRNA microarray revealed a multitude of miRNAs differentially expressed in HUVECs after influenza virus infection. Through target gene prediction, we found that a series of miRNAs were involved in PKC, Rho/ROCK, HRas/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways associated with permeability regulation, and most of these miRNAs were down-regulated after flu infection. It has been reported that PKC, Rho/ROCK, HRas/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways are activated by flu infection and play important roles in permeability regulation. Therefore, the cumulative effects of these down-regulated miRNAs which synergistically enhanced activation of PKC, Rho/ROCK, Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways, can eventually lead to actin rearrangement and hyperpermeability in flu-infected HUVECs. labels: #Capillary Permeability#Gene Expression Profiling#Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells#Humans#Influenza A virus#MicroRNAs#Umbilical Veins"
b'Soil salinity, a major environmental stress, reduces agricultural productivity by restricting plant development and growth. Jute (Corchorus spp.), a commercially important bast fiber crop, includes two commercially cultivated species, Corchorus capsularis and Corchorus olitorius. We conducted high-throughput transcriptome sequencing of 24 C. capsularis and C. olitorius samples under salt stress and found 127 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs); additionally, 4489 and 492 common DEGs were identified in the root and leaf tissues, respectively, of both Corchorus species. Further, 32, 196, and 11 common differentially expressed transcription factors (DTFs) were detected in the leaf, root, or both tissues, respectively. Several Gene Ontology (GO) terms were enriched in NY and YY. A Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis revealed numerous DEGs in both species. Abscisic acid and cytokinin signal pathways enriched respectively about 20 DEGs in leaves and roots of both NY and YY. The Ca2+, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling and oxidative phosphorylation pathways were also found to be related to the plant response to salt stress, as evidenced by the DEGs in the roots of both species. These results provide insight into salt stress response mechanisms in plants as well as a basis for future breeding of salt-tolerant cultivars. labels: #Corchorus#Salinity#Stress, Physiological#Transcriptome'
b'The multifunctional Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a serine/threonine kinase important in transducing intracellular Ca2+ signals. While in vitro data regarding the role of CaMKII in the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) are contradictory, its role in endothelial function in vivo remains unknown. Using two novel transgenic models to express CaMKII inhibitor peptides selectively in endothelium, we examined the effect of CaMKII on eNOS activation, NO production, vasomotor tone and blood pressure. Under baseline conditions, CaMKII activation was low in the aortic wall. Consistently, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate and plasma NO levels were unaltered by endothelial CaMKII inhibition. Moreover, endothelial CaMKII inhibition had no significant effect on NO-dependent vasodilation. These results were confirmed in studies of aortic rings transduced with adenovirus expressing a CaMKII inhibitor peptide. In cultured endothelial cells, bradykinin treatment produced the anticipated rapid influx of Ca2+ and transient CaMKII and eNOS activation, whereas CaMKII inhibition blocked eNOS phosphorylation on Ser-1179 and dephosphorylation at Thr-497. Ca2+/CaM binding to eNOS and resultant NO production in vitro were decreased under CaMKII inhibition. Our results demonstrate that CaMKII plays an important role in transient bradykinin-driven eNOS activation in vitro, but does not regulate NO production, vasorelaxation or blood pressure in vivo under baseline conditions. labels: #Animals#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Line#Humans#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III#Phosphorylation'
b'Oral mucositis (OM) is an important side effect of cancer treatment, characterized by ulcerative lesions in the mucosa of patients undergoing radiotherapy or chemotherapy, which has marked effects on patient quality of life and cancer therapy continuity. Considering that few protocols have demonstrated efficacy in preventing this side effect, the aim of this study was to examine the effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on OM induced by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in hamsters by studying signaling pathways. OM was induced in hamsters by 5-FU followed by mechanical trauma (MT) on day 4. On day 10, the animals were euthanized. The experimental groups included saline, MT, 5-FU, and DEX (0.25, 0.5, or 1 mg/kg). Macroscopic, histopathological, and immunohistochemical analyses as well as immunofluorescence experiments were performed on the oral mucosa of the animals. The oral mucosal samples were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). DEX (0.5 or 1 mg/kg) reduced inflammation and ulceration of the oral mucosa of hamsters. In addition, DEX (1 mg/kg) reduced the cytokine levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-\xce\xb1, interleukin (IL)-1\xce\xb2, and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). DEX (1 mg/kg) also reduced the immunoexpression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, transforming growth factor (TGF)-\xce\xb2, MIF, Smad 2/3, Smad 2/3 phosphorylated and NF\xce\xbaB p65 in the jugal mucosa. Finally, DEX (1 mg/kg) increased interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK-M), glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MKP1) gene expression and reduced NF\xce\xbaB p65 and serine threonine kinase (AKt) gene expression, relative to the 5-FU group. Thus, DEX improved OM induced by 5-FU in hamsters. labels: #Animals#Cricetinae#Cyclooxygenase 2#Cytokines#Dexamethasone#Fluorouracil#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Mesocricetus#NF-kappa B#Phosphorylation#Smad Proteins#Stomatitis#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b"The three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus L., hereafter 'stickleback') is a common mesopredatory fish in marine, coastal and freshwater areas. In large parts of the Baltic Sea, stickleback densities have increased>10-fold during the last decades, and it is now one of the dominating fish species both in terms of biomass and effects on lower trophic levels. Still, relatively little is known about its diet-knowledge which is essential to understand the increasing role sticklebacks play in the ecosystem. Fish diet analyses typically rely on visual identification of stomach contents, a labour-intensive method that is made difficult by prey digestion and requires expert taxonomic knowledge. However, advances in DNA-based metabarcoding methods promise a simultaneous identification of most prey items, even from semi-digested tissue. Here, we studied the diet of stickleback from the western Baltic Sea coast using both DNA metabarcoding and visual analysis of stomach contents. Using the cytochrome oxidase (CO1) marker we identified 120 prey taxa in the diet, belonging to 15 phyla, 83 genera and 84 species. Compared to previous studies, this is an unusually high prey diversity. Chironomids, cladocerans and harpacticoids were dominating prey items. Large sticklebacks were found to feed more on benthic prey, such as amphipods, gastropods and isopods. DNA metabarcoding gave much higher taxonomic resolution (median rank genus) than visual analysis (median rank order), and many taxa identified using barcoding could not have been identified visually. However, a few taxa identified by visual inspection were not revealed by barcoding. In summary, our results suggest that the three-spined stickleback feeds on a wide variety of both pelagic and benthic organisms, indicating that the strong increase in stickleback populations may affect many parts of the Baltic Sea coastal ecosystem. labels: #Animals#DNA Barcoding, Taxonomic#Ecosystem#Smegmamorpha"
b'After the introduction of a ban on the use of antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) for livestock, the feeding environment, including the composition of animal intestinal microbiota, has changed rapidly. We hypothesized that the microbial genomes have also been affected by this legal prohibition, and investigated an important member of the swine gut microbiota, Lactobacillus salivarius, with a pan-genomic approach. Here, we isolated 21 L. salivarius strains composed of 6 strains isolated before the AGP prohibition (SBPs) and 15 strains isolated after the AGP prohibition (SAPs) at an interval of a decade, and the draft genomes were generated de novo. Several genomic differences between SBPs and SAPs were identified, although the number and function of antibiotic resistance genes were not different. SBPs showed larger genome size and a higher number of orthologs, as well as lower genetic diversity, than SAPs. SBPs had genes associated with the utilization of L-rhamnose and D-tagatose for energy production. Because these sugars are also used in exopolysaccharide (EPS) synthesis, we tried to identify differences in biofilm formation-associated genes. The genes for the production of EPSs and extracellular proteins were different in terms of amino acid sequences. Indeed, SAPs formed dense biofilm and survived better than SBPs in the swine intestinal environment. These results suggest that SAPs have evolved and adapted to protect themselves from new selection pressure of the swine intestinal microenvironment by forming dense biofilms, adopting a distinct antibiotic resistance strategy. This finding is particularly important to understand the evolutionary changes in host-microbe interaction and provide detailed insight for the development of effective probiotics for livestock. labels: #Animals#Biofilms#Drug Resistance, Microbial#Genome, Bacterial#Intestines#Lactobacillus salivarius#Probiotics#Swine'
b'Although numerous studies have demonstrated the key role of bacterial diversity in soil functions and ecosystem services, little is known about the variations and determinants of such diversity on a nationwide scale. The overall objectives of this study were i) to describe the bacterial taxonomic richness variations across France, ii) to identify the ecological processes (i.e. selection by the environment and dispersal limitation) influencing this distribution, and iii) to develop a statistical predictive model of soil bacterial richness. We used the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network (RMQS), which covers all of France with 2,173 sites. The soil bacterial richness (i.e. OTU number) was determined by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA genes and related to the soil characteristics, climatic conditions, geomorphology, land use and space. Mapping of bacterial richness revealed a heterogeneous spatial distribution, structured into patches of about 111km, where the main drivers were the soil physico-chemical properties (18% of explained variance), the spatial descriptors (5.25%, 1.89% and 1.02% for the fine, medium and coarse scales, respectively), and the land use (1.4%). Based on these drivers, a predictive model was developed, which allows a good prediction of the bacterial richness (R2adj of 0.56) and provides a reference value for a given pedoclimatic condition. labels: #Bacteria#France#Polymerase Chain Reaction#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Soil Microbiology'
b'For a detailed investigation of the degradation of lysine in Phaeobacter inhibens DSM 17395, stable isotope experiments with uniformly 13C labeled L-lysine were carried out with lysine adapted cells and the metabolites were analyzed using GC/MS and HPLC/MS. A non-targeted stable isotope analysis was used which compares labeled and not labeled samples to determine the Mass Isotopomer Distribution not only for known metabolites but for all labeled compounds in our GC/MS analysis. We show that P. inhibens uses at least two parallel pathways for the first degradation steps of lysine. Further investigations identified L-pipecolate as an L-lysine degradation intermediate in P. inhibens. The analysis of HPLC/MS data as well as the labeling data of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates show that L-lysine is not only catabolized directly to acetyl-CoA but also via the ethylmalonyl-CoA-pathway, leading to entry points into the TCA cycle via acetyl-CoA, succinyl-CoA, and malate. Altogether the presented data give a detailed insight into the catabolization of L-lysine following the fate of 13C labeled carbon via several ways into the TCA cycle. labels: #Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Citric Acid Cycle#Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry#Isotopes#Lysine#Rhodobacteraceae'
b'In this paper, we investigate a step-stress partially accelerated lifetime test for the four-component hybrid systems with Type-II progressive hybrid censoring scheme while the life time of system component follows exponential failure rate. In many cases, the exact component causing the system failure cannot be identified and the cause of failure is masked. Based on Type-II progressively hybrid censored and masked data, the maximum likelihood estimations for unknown parameters and acceleration factor are obtained. In addition, approximate confidence interval and bootstrap confidence interval are presented by using the asymptotic distributions of the maximum likelihood estimations for unknown parameters and bootstrap method, respectively. Finally, the proposed method is illustrated through the simulation studies. labels: #Likelihood Functions#Models, Statistical'
b"Regeneration of injured skeletal muscles is affected by fibrosis, which can be improved by the administration of angiotensin II (AngII) receptor (ATR) blockers in normotensive animals. However, the role of ATR in skeletal muscle fibrosis in hypertensive organisms has not been investigated yet. The tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar rats (WR) were lacerated and a lentivector encoding a microRNA targeting AngII receptor type 1 (At1) (Lv-mirAT1a) or control (Lv-mirCTL) was injected. The TA muscles were collected after 30 days to evaluate fibrosis by histology and gene expression by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. SHR's myoblasts were analyzed by RT-qPCR, 48 h after transduction. In the SHR's TA, AT1 protein expression was 23.5-fold higher than in WR without injury, but no difference was observed in the angiotensin II receptor type 2 (AT2) protein expression. TA laceration followed by suture (LS) produced fibrosis in the SHR (23.3\xc2\xb18.5%) and WR (7.9\xc2\xb11.5%). Lv-mirAT1 treatment decreased At1 gene expression in 50% and reduced fibrosis to 7% 30 days after. RT-qPCR showed that reduction in At1 expression is due to downregulation of the At1a but not of the At1b. RT-qPCR of myoblasts from SHR transduced with Lv-mirAT1a showed downregulation of the Tgf-b1, Tgf-b2, Smad3, Col1a1, and Col3a1 genes by mirAT1a. In vivo and in vitro studies indicate that hypertension overproduces skeletal muscle fibrosis, and AngII-AT1a signaling is the main pathway of fibrosis in SHR. Moreover, muscle fibrosis can be treated specifically by in loco injection of Lv-mirAT1a without affecting other organs. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Fibrosis#Gene Expression Profiling#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#Rats#Rats, Inbred SHR#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptors, Angiotensin#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction"
b"This study evaluates the sustained analgesic effect of ketorolac-eluting thermosensitive biodegradable hydrogel in the plantar incisional pain model of the rat hind-paw. A ketorolac-embedded 2, 2'-Bis (2-oxazolin) (BOX) linking methoxy-poly(ethylene glycol) and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (mPEG-PLGA) diblock copolymer (BOX copolymer) was synthesized as keto-hydrogel based on optimal sol-gel phase transition and in vitro drug release profile. The effect of keto-hydrogel on postoperative pain (POP) was assessed using the established plantar incisional pain model in hind-paw of rats and compared to that of ketorolac solution. Pain and sensory threshold, as well as pain scoring, were evaluated with behavioral tests by means of anesthesiometer and incapacitance apparatus, respectively. Pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6, VEGF, and IL-1\xce\xb2) around incisional wounds were measured by ELISA. Tissue histology was assessed using hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. Ten mg/mL (25 wt%) keto-hydrogel showed a sol-gel transition at 26.4\xc2\xb0C with a 10-day sustained drug release profile in vitro. Compared to ketorolac solution group, the concentration of ketorolac in tissue fluid was higher in the keto-hydrogel group during the first 18 h of application. Keto-hydrogel elevated pain and sensory threshold, increased weight-bearing capacity, and significantly reduced the levels of TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6, and IL-1\xce\xb2 while enhanced VEGF in tissue fluid. Histologic analysis reveals greater epithelialization and collagen deposition around wound treated with keto-hydrogel. In conclusion, our study suggests that keto-hydrogel is an ideal compound to treat POP with a secondary gain of improved incisional wound healing. labels: #Animals#Biocompatible Materials#Disease Models, Animal#Hydrogels#Pain, Postoperative#Rats"
b'The periwinkle Littorina saxatilis has repeatedly evolved both a small, fragile and globose "wave ecotype" confined to wave-swept shores and a large, robust and elongated "crab ecotype" found in nearby crab-rich but less-exposed shores. This phenotypic divergence is assumed to reflect, in some part, local adaptation to wave exposure, but this hypothesis has received incomplete experimental testing. Here, we report a test of the prediction that the wave ecotype has a higher capacity to resist water flow than the crab ecotype. We sampled snails along a crab-wave transect and measured their resistance to dislodgement in a high-speed water flume with water speeds that match those of breaking waves in a range of relevant field conditions. Snails from the wave environment were consistently more resistant to water flow than snails from the crab environment and high resistance was positively correlated with the surface area of the foot and the area of the outer aperture contour both relative to shell size, and to the extent of lateral shell compression. In a separate experiment, we found that snails raised in still water in a common garden showed higher resistance to water flow if originating from a wave environment than from a crab environment, and this was true both at juvenile (2 weeks) and adult (10 months) developmental stages. This result suggests genetic control of a distinct "wave adapted" phenotype, likely to be maintained under strong divergent selection between the two adjacent habitats. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Animals#Ecosystem#Snails'
b'BACKGROUND: Netrin-1, a secreted laminin-like protein identified as an axon guidance molecule, has been shown to be of critical importance in the cardiovascular system. Recent studies have revealed pro-angiogenic, anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory properties of netrin-1 as well as cardioprotective actions against myocardial injury in diabetic mice.AIM: To examine the role of netrin-1 in diabetes-and high glucose (HG)-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction (VED) using netrin-1 transgenic mice (Tg3) and cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC).MAIN OUTCOME: Overexpression of netrin-1 prevented diabetes-induced VED in aorta from diabetic mice and netrin-1 treatment attenuated HG-induced impairment of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) function in BAECs.METHODS AND RESULTS: Experiments were performed in Tg3 and littermate control (WT) mice rendered diabetic with streptozotocin (STZ) and in BAECs treated with HG (25 mmol/L). Levels of netrin-1 and its receptor DCC, markers of inflammation and apoptosis and vascular function were assessed in aortas from diabetic and non-diabetic Tg3 and WT mice. Vascular netrin-1 in WT mice was reduced under diabetic conditions. Aortas from non-diabetic Tg3 and WT mice showed similar maximum endothelium-dependent relaxation (MEDR) (83% and 87%, respectively). MEDR was markedly impaired in aorta from diabetic WT mice (51%). This effect was significantly blunted in Tg3 diabetic aortas (70%). Improved vascular relaxation in Tg3 diabetic mice was associated with increased levels of phospho-ERK1/2 and reduced levels of oxidant stress, NF\xce\xbaB, COX-2, p16INK4A, cleaved caspase-3 and p16 and p53 mRNA. Netrin-1 treatment prevented the HG-induced decrease in NO production and elevation of oxidative stress and apoptosis in BAECs.CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes decreases aortic levels of netrin-1. However, overexpression of netrin-1 attenuates diabetes-induced VED and limits the reduction of NO levels, while increasing expression of p-ERK1/2, and suppressing oxidative stress and inflammatory and apoptotic processes. Enhancement of netrin-1 function may be a useful therapeutic means for preventing vascular dysfunction in diabetes. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blood Glucose#Cattle#Cells, Cultured#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Endothelium, Vascular#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Nerve Growth Factors#Netrin-1#Nitric Oxide#Oxidative Stress#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b'In the context of limited marine resources, the exponential growth of aquaculture requires the substitution of fish oil and fishmeal, the traditional components of fish feeds by terrestrial plant ingredients. High levels of such substitution are known to negatively impact fish performance such as growth and survival in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) as in other salmonids. In this respect, genetic selection is a key enabler for improving those performances and hence for the further sustainable development of aquaculture. We selected a rainbow trout line over three generations for its ability to survive and grow on a 100% plant-based diet devoid of both fish oil and fishmeal (V diet) from the very first meal. In the present study, we compared the control line and the selected line after 3 generations of selection, both fed either the V diet or a marine resources-based diet (M diet). The objective of the study was to assess the efficiency of selection and the consequences on various correlated nutritional traits: feed intake, feed efficiency, digestibility, composition of whole fish, nutrient retention and fatty acid (FA) profile. We demonstrated that the genetic variability present in our rainbow trout population can be selected to improve survival and growth. The major result of the study is that after only three generations of selection, selected fish fed the V diet grew at the same rate as the control line fed the M diet, whilst the relative reduction of body weight was 36.8% before the selection. This enhanced performance on the V diet seems to be mostly linked to a higher feed intake for the selected fish. labels: #Animal Feed#Animals#Fish Oils#Fishes#Oncorhynchus mykiss'
b"Strategies to encourage exercise have led to research on cycle ergometer 'exergaming', as a means of enhancing exercise enjoyment. This research has typically prescribed the exercise intensity and used one exercise mode. The aim of this study was to compare self-selected exercise intensity on a cycle ergometer with and without exergaming modes activated. A total of 20 participants aged between 18-40 years (M = 24.2 \xc2\xb1 5.9) completed a sub-maximal exercise test. Participants returned two days later to complete one 45 minute session of self-selected exercise with 15 minutes in each of 'control' (standard ergometer), 'track', and 'game' modes, with order randomized. Heart rate, work rate, perceived exertion, and affective valence were recorded during exercise. Dissociation and enjoyment were recorded in the rest interval between each mode. Participants exercised above ventilatory threshold (VT) in all three modes (track, M = 9.5 \xc2\xb1 12%; game, M = 6.2 \xc2\xb1 12%; and control, M = 4.4 \xc2\xb1 14% above VT) and at higher work rates (P<0.05) exergaming (track, M = 94.5 \xc2\xb1 27.9; game, M = 96.2 \xc2\xb1 32.8 watts) than control (M = 86.6 \xc2\xb1 26.5 watts). Despite exercising at a higher intensity, participants perceived exercise during the exergaming modes to be most pleasant (P<0.01), with greater enjoyment (P<0.01) and dissociation (P<0.01) in the game than track mode, and both modes higher on these variables than the control mode. Findings support the use of exergaming as a strategy to encourage individuals to exercise, with participants choosing to work harder physiologically, but reporting more positive psychological responses during and following the exercise. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Exercise#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Motivation#Physical Exertion#Respiration#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between a history of periodontitis (PD) and incident systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).METHODS: We used 2003-2012 claims data from the Taiwanese National Health Insurance Database to identify 7,204 incident SLE patients during 2007-2012 as the study group, along with randomly selecting 72,040 non-SLE patients matched (1:10) for age, gender, and first diagnosis date (index date) as the control group. The correlation between PD and SLE risk was estimated using conditional logistic regression analysis, after making adjustments for confounders (including a history of diabetes and number of non-PD related dental visits before the index date). To evaluate the effects of PD severity and the lag time which occurred since the last PD visit on SLE development, odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for subgroups of patients with PD according to their number of visits, cumulative cost and also the time gaps between their last PD-related visit and the index date.RESULTS: A statistically significant association between a history of PD and newly diagnosed SLE was observed (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.14-1.28; p-value,<0.001). The association was both dose- and time-dependent and was found to be strongest when the interval between the last PD-related visit and the index date was less than three months (OR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.61-2.09; p-value,<0.001). The association between PD exposure and SLE risk was consistently significant among subgroups stratified based on age, gender, or DM status.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this nationwide, population-based, case-control study suggest that there is a significant association between a history of PD and incident SLE in Taiwan. This weak association is limited to lack of information on individual smoking status in the database. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Confounding Factors (Epidemiology)#Female#Humans#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Middle Aged#Periodontitis#Risk Factors#Taiwan'
b"Leadership positions are still stereotyped as masculine, especially in male-dominated fields (e.g., engineering). So how do gender stereotypes affect the evaluation of leaders and team cohesiveness in the process of team development? In our study participants worked in 45 small teams (4-5 members). Each team was headed by either a female or male leader, so that 45 leaders (33% women) supervised 258 team members (39% women). Over a period of nine months, the teams developed specific engineering projects as part of their professional undergraduate training. We examined leaders' self-evaluation, their evaluation by team members, and team cohesiveness at two points of time (month three and month nine, the final month of the collaboration). While we did not find any gender differences in leaders' self-evaluation at the beginning, female leaders evaluated themselves more favorably than men at the end of the projects. Moreover, female leaders were evaluated more favorably than male leaders at the beginning of the project, but the evaluation by team members did not differ at the end of the projects. Finally, we found a tendency for female leaders to build more cohesive teams than male leaders. labels: #Female#Humans#Institutional Management Teams#Leadership#Male#Sex Factors"
b'The effectiveness of the annual influenza vaccine has declined in recent years, especially for the H3N2 component, and is a concern for global public health. A major cause for this lack in effectiveness has been attributed to the egg-based vaccine production process. Substitutions on the hemagglutinin glycoprotein (HA) often arise during virus passaging that change its antigenicity and hence vaccine effectiveness. Here, we characterize the effect of a prevalent substitution, L194P, in egg-passaged H3N2 viruses. X-ray structural analysis reveals that this substitution surprisingly increases the mobility of the 190-helix and neighboring regions in antigenic site B, which forms one side of the receptor binding site (RBS) and is immunodominant in recent human H3N2 viruses. Importantly, the L194P substitution decreases binding and neutralization by an RBS-targeted broadly neutralizing antibody by three orders of magnitude and significantly changes the HA antigenicity as measured by binding of human serum antibodies. The receptor binding mode and specificity are also altered to adapt to avian receptors during egg passaging. Overall, these findings help explain the low effectiveness of the seasonal vaccine against H3N2 viruses, and suggest that alternative approaches should be accelerated for producing influenza vaccines as well as isolating clinical isolates. labels: #Amino Acid Substitution#Antigens, Viral#Hemagglutinin Glycoproteins, Influenza Virus#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H3N2 Subtype#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human'
b"This work aims to study and explain the business cycle correlations of the Japanese production network. We consider the supplier-customer network, which is a directed network representing the trading links between Japanese firms (links from suppliers to customers). The community structure of this network is determined by applying the Infomap algorithm. Each community is defined by its GDP and its associated business cycle. Business cycle correlations between communities are estimated based on copula theory. Then, based on firms' attributes and network topology, these correlations are explained through linear econometric models. The results show strong evidence of business cycle correlations in the Japanese production network. A significant systemic risk is found for high negative or positive shocks. These correlations are explained mainly by the sector and by geographic similarities. Moreover, our results highlight the higher vulnerability of small communities and small firms, which is explained by the disassortative mixing of the production network. labels: #Algorithms#Commerce#Japan#Risk"
b'Our laboratory previously used the SEREX method in U937 cells and identified a novel leukemia-associated gene MLAA-34, a novel splice variant of CAB39L associated with acute monocytic leukemia, that exhibited anti-apoptotic activities in U937 cells. Whether MLAA-34 has an anti-apoptotic role in other tumor cells has not yet been reported. We explored whether MLAA-34 exhibited anti-apoptotic effects in HeLa cervical cancer cells and the possible mechanism of action. We generated a HeLa cell line stably expressing MLAA-34 and found that MLAA-34 overexpression had no effect on the growth, apoptosis and cell cycle of HeLa cells. However, upon treatment with arsenic trioxide (ATO) to induce apoptosis, the cell viability and colony formation ability of ATO-treated MLAA-34 stable HeLa cells were significantly higher than that of ATO-treated controls, and the apoptosis rate and proportion of G2/M cells also decreased. We found that ATO treatment of HeLa cells resulted in significant decreases in the expression of \xce\xb2-catenin mRNA and protein and the downstream target factors c-Myc, cyclin B1, and cyclin D1 in the Wnt signaling pathway. Notably, ATO-treated MLAA-34 stable HeLa cells showed a significant reduction in the ATO-mediated downregulation of these factors. In addition, MLAA-34 overexpression significantly increased the expression of nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin protein in ATO-treated cells compared with HeLa cells treated only with ATO. Thus, here we have found that the Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling pathway is involved in ATO-induced apoptosis in HeLa cells. MLAA-34 reduces ATO-induced apoptosis and G2/M arrest, and the anti-apoptotic effect may be achieved by activating the Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling pathway in HeLa cells. labels: #Antigens, Neoplasm#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Arsenicals#Blotting, Western#HeLa Cells#Humans#Oxides#Signal Transduction#Wnt Proteins#beta Catenin'
b'Neonicotinoid insecticides can cause a variety of adverse sub-lethal effects in bees. In social species such as the honeybee, Apis mellifera, queens are essential for reproduction and colony functioning. Therefore, any negative effect of these agricultural chemicals on the mating success of queens may have serious consequences for the fitness of the entire colony. Queens were exposed to the common neonicotinoid pesticides thiamethoxam and clothianidin during their developmental stage. After mating, their spermathecae were dissected to count the number of stored spermatozoa. Furthermore, their worker offspring were genotyped with DNA microsatellites to determine the number of matings and the genotypic composition of the colony. Colonies providing the male mating partners were also inferred. Both neonicotinoid and control queens mated with drones originating from the same drone source colonies, and stored similar number of spermatozoa. However, queens reared in colonies exposed to both neonicotinoids experienced fewer matings. This resulted in a reduction of the genetic diversity in their colonies (i.e. higher intracolonial relatedness). As decreased genetic diversity among worker bees is known to negatively affect colony vitality, neonicotinoids may have a cryptic effect on colony health by reducing the mating frequency of queens. labels: #Animals#Bees#Female#Genetic Variation#Male#Nicotine#Pesticides#Sexual Behavior, Animal'
b'Mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) constitutes a collection of relatively rare pediatric malignancies. In order to utilize administrative data to perform large-scale epidemiologic studies within this population, a two-step process was used to assemble a 12-year cohort of B-NHL patients treated between 2004 and 2015 within the Pediatric Health Information System database. Patients were identified by ICD-9 codes, and their chemotherapy data were then manually reviewed against standard B-NHL treatment regimens. A total of 1,409 patients were eligible for cohort inclusion. This process was validated at a single center, utilizing both an institutional tumor registry and medical record review as the gold standards. The validation demonstrated appropriate sensitivity (91.5%) and positive predictive value (95.1%) to allow for the future use of this cohort for epidemiologic and comparative effectiveness research. labels: #Child#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Humans#Lymphoma, B-Cell'
b'The present study investigated the effect of iRoot Fast Set root repair material (iRoot FS) on the proliferation, migration and differentiation of human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs). The hDPSCs were treated with eluates of iRoot FS at concentrations of 0.2 and 2 mg/mL, referred to as FS0.2 and FS2, respectively, and Biodentine (BD; Septodont, Saint Maur des Fauss\xc3\xa9s, France) eluates at the corresponding concentrations as positive controls. A CCK8 assay was performed to determine cell proliferation. Wound healing and transwell assays were conducted to examine cell migration. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated based on alkaline phosphatase activity, Alizarin Red S staining and quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to analyze the mRNA expression of differentiation gene markers. Cell proliferation was higher in the FS and BD groups than in the blank controls at 3 and 7 days. Moreover, FS0.2 enhanced cell migration and significantly promoted the osteogenic differentiation of hDPSCs. These findings suggested that iRoot FS is a bioactive material that promotes the proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation of hDPSCs. labels: #Cell Differentiation#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Dental Pulp#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Osteogenesis#Stem Cells'
b'Knowing the correct location of a specific object learned from a (topographic) map is fundamental for orientation and navigation tasks. Spatial reference systems, such as coordinates or cardinal directions, are helpful tools for any geometric localization of positions that aims to be as exact as possible. Considering modern visualization techniques of multimedia cartography, map elements transferred through the auditory channel can be added easily. Audiovisual approaches have been discussed in the cartographic community for many years. However, the effectiveness of audiovisual map elements for map use has hardly been explored so far. Within an interdisciplinary (cartography-cognitive psychology) research project, it is examined whether map users remember object-locations better if they do not just read the corresponding place names, but also listen to them as voice recordings. This approach is based on the idea that learning object-identities influences learning object-locations, which is crucial for map-reading tasks. The results of an empirical study show that the additional auditory communication of object names not only improves memory for the names (object-identities), but also for the spatial accuracy of their corresponding object-locations. The audiovisual communication of semantic attribute information of a spatial object seems to improve the binding of object-identity and object-location, which enhances the spatial accuracy of object-location memory. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Maps as Topic#Memory'
b'Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax, secretes lethal toxin that down-regulates immune functions. Translocation of B. anthracis across mucosal epithelia is key for its dissemination and pathogenesis. Group 3 innate lymphocytes (ILC3s) are important in mucosal barrier maintenance due to their expression of the cytokine IL-22, a critical regulator of tissue responses and repair during homeostasis and inflammation. We found that B. anthracis lethal toxin perturbed ILC3 function in vitro and in vivo, revealing an unknown IL-23-mediated MAPK signaling pathway. Lethal toxin had no effects on the canonical STAT3-mediated IL-23 signaling pathway. Rather lethal toxin triggered the loss of several MAP2K kinases, which correlated with reduced activation of downstream ERK1/2 and p38, respectively. Inhibition studies showed the importance of MAPK signaling in IL-23-mediated production of IL-22. Our finding that MAPK signaling is required for optimal IL-22 production in ILC3s may lead to new approaches for targeting IL-22 biology. labels: #Animals#Anthrax#Antigens, Bacterial#Bacillus anthracis#Bacterial Toxins#Humans#Interleukin-23#Interleukins#Lymphocytes#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Mice#Virulence'
b'The intricate interactions between viruses and hosts include exploitation of host cells for viral replication by using many cellular resources, metabolites and energy. Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV), similar to other (+)RNA viruses, induces major changes in infected cells that lead to the formation of large replication compartments consisting of aggregated peroxisomal and ER membranes. Yet, it is not known how TBSV obtains the energy to fuel these energy-consuming processes. In the current work, the authors discovered that TBSV co-opts the glycolytic ATP-generating Pgk1 phosphoglycerate kinase to facilitate the assembly of new viral replicase complexes. The recruitment of Pgk1 into the viral replication compartment is through direct interaction with the viral replication proteins. Altogether, we provide evidence that the ATP generated locally within the replication compartment by the co-opted Pgk1 is used to fuel the ATP-requirement of the co-opted heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) chaperone, which is essential for the assembly of new viral replicase complexes and the activation of functional viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The advantage of direct recruitment of Pgk1 into the virus replication compartment could be that the virus replicase assembly does not need to intensively compete with cellular processes for access to ATP. In addition, local production of ATP within the replication compartment could greatly facilitate the efficiency of Hsp70-driven replicase assembly by providing high ATP concentration within the replication compartment. labels: #Host-Pathogen Interactions#Phosphoglycerate Kinase#RNA Replicase#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Tobacco#Tombusvirus#Virus Assembly'
b'We studied the interaction between GroES and a single-ring mutant (SR1) of GroEL by the NMR titration of 15N-labeled GroES with SR1 at three different temperatures (20, 25 and 30\xc2\xb0C) in the presence of 3 mM ADP in 100 mM KCl and 10 mM MgCl2 at pH 7.5. We used SR1 instead of wild-type double-ring GroEL to precisely control the stoichiometry of the GroES binding to be 1:1 ([SR1]:[GroES]). Native heptameric GroES was very flexible, showing well resolved cross peaks of the residues in a mobile loop segment (residue 17-34) and at the top of a roof hairpin (Asn51) in the heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectra. The binding of SR1 to GroES caused the cross peaks to disappear simultaneously, and hence it occurred in a single-step cooperative manner with significant immobilization of the whole GroES structure. The binding was thus entropic with a positive entropy change (219 J/mol/K) and a positive enthalpy change (35 kJ/mol), and the binding constant was estimated at 1.9\xc3\x97105 M-1 at 25\xc2\xb0C. The NMR titration in 3 mM ATP also indicated that the binding constant between GroES and SR1 increased more than tenfold as compared with the binding constant in 3 mM ADP. These results will be discussed in relation to the structure and mechanisms of the chaperonin GroEL/GroES complex. labels: #Chaperonins#Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy#Protein Conformation#Thermodynamics'
b'In this study, we used 454-pyrosequencing to report the highly diverse diazotroph communities in the Kuroshio and its adjacent waters along a transect across the Tokara Strait, Japan. Terrestrial input from the islands resulted in a highly heterogeneous diazotroph community within a relatively small geographic region, which was presumably caused by the remarkably different responses of UCYN-A2, UCYN-C and Trichodesmium to the steep environmental gradient. On the other hand, most major cyanobacterial OTUs found in this study were also detected in an unpublished dataset from the upstream Kuroshio, which suggests transportation of diazotrophs by the Kuroshio in large geographic scale. A significant amount of UCYN-C was found in the Kuroshio and offshore stations, suggesting the importance of this potentially overlooked group in the western North Pacific Ocean (WNPO). Moreover, a novel sublineage of UCYN-B was defined, which was predominant in an oligotrophic water sample; and it was also found to be widely distributed in oceanic waters. In addition, the apparent increase in relative abundance of UCYN-A2 from offshore to near-shore water provides evidence for the earlier and under-debating view that UCYN-A2 prefers coastal conditions. Our report provides new knowledge for understanding the phylogeny and ecology of unicellular cyanobacterial diazotrophs in WNPO. labels: #Cyanobacteria#Japan#Phylogeny#Water Microbiology'
b'We have previously engineered new RNase P-based ribozyme variants with improved in vitro catalytic activity. In this study, we employed a novel engineered variant to target a shared mRNA region of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) immediate early proteins 1 (IE1) and 2 (IE2), which are essential for the expression of viral early and late genes as well as viral growth. Ribozyme F-R228-IE represents a novel variant that possesses three unique base substitution point mutations at the catalytic domain of RNase P catalytic RNA. Compared to F-M1-IE that is the ribozyme derived from the wild type RNase P catalytic RNA sequence, the functional variant F-R228-IE cleaved the target mRNA sequence in vitro at least 100 times more efficiently. In cultured cells, expression of F-R228-IE resulted in IE1/IE2 expression reduction by 98-99% and in HCMV production reduction by 50,000 folds. In contrast, expression of F-M1-IE resulted in IE1/IE2 expression reduction by less than 80% and in viral production reduction by 200 folds. Studies of the ribozyme-mediated antiviral effects in cultured cells suggest that overall viral early and late gene expression and viral growth were inhibited due to the ribozyme-mediated reduction of HCMV IE1 and IE2 expression. Our results provide direct evidence that engineered RNase P ribozymes, such as F-R228-IE, can serve as a novel class of inhibitors for the treatment and prevention of HCMV infection. Moreover, these results suggest that F-R228-IE, with novel and unique mutations at the catalytic domain to enhance ribozyme activity, can be a candidate for the construction of effective agents for anti-HCMV therapy. labels: #Cytomegalovirus#Genes, Immediate-Early#Humans#RNA, Catalytic#Ribonuclease P'
b'BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetic patients and non-diabetic patients were referred for evaluation for chronic exertional compartment syndrome (CECS) based on clinical examination and complaints of activity-related leg pain in the region of the tibialis anterior muscle. Previous studies using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) showed greater deoxygenation during exercise for CECS patients versus healthy controls; however, this comparison has not been done for diabetic CECS patients.METHODS: We used NIRS to test for differences in oxygenation kinetics for Type 1 diabetic patients diagnosed with (CECS-diabetics, n = 9) versus diabetic patients without (CON-diabetics, n = 10) leg anterior chronic exertional compartment syndrome. Comparisons were also made between non-diabetic CECS patients (n = 11) and healthy controls (CON, n = 10). The experimental protocol consisted of thigh arterial cuff occlusion (AO, 1-minute duration), and treadmill running to reproduce symptoms. NIRS variables generated were resting StO2%, and oxygen recovery following AO. Also, during and following treadmill running the magnitude of deoxygenation and oxygen recovery, respectively, were determined.RESULTS: There was no difference in resting StO2% between CECS-diabetics (78.2\xc2\xb112.6%) vs. CON-diabetics (69.1\xc2\xb120.8%), or between CECS (69.3\xc2\xb116.2) vs. CON (75.9\xc2\xb111.2%). However, oxygen recovery following AO was significantly slower for CECS (1.8\xc2\xb10.8%/sec) vs. CON (3.8\xc2\xb11.7%/sec) (P = 0.002); these data were not different between the diabetic groups. StO2% during exercise was lower (greater deoxygenation) for CECS-diabetics (6.3\xc2\xb18.6%) vs. CON-diabetics (40.4\xc2\xb122.0%), and for CECS (11.3\xc2\xb116.8%) vs. CON (34.1\xc2\xb121.2%) (P<0.05 for both). The rate of oxygen recovery post exercise was faster for CECS-diabetics (3.5\xc2\xb12.6%/sec) vs. CON-diabetics (1.4\xc2\xb10.8%/sec) (P = 0.04), and there was a tendency of difference for CECS (3.1\xc2\xb11.4%/sec) vs. CON (1.9\xc2\xb11.3%/sec) (P = 0.05).CONCLUSION: The greater deoxygenation during treadmill running for the CECS-diabetics group (vs. CON-diabetics) is in line with previous studies (and with the present study) that compared non-diabetic CECS patients with healthy controls. Our findings could suggest that NIRS may be useful as a diagnostic tool for assessing Type 1 diabetic patients suspected of CECS. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Chronic Disease#Compartment Syndromes#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Humans#Muscle, Skeletal#Oxygen#Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared'
b'Composting is viewed as one of the primary methods to treat organic wastes. Co-composting may improve the efficiency of this treatment by establishing the most suitable conditions for decomposers than those present in the individual wastes. Given that bacteria and fungi are the driving agents of composting, information about the composition of their communities and dynamics during composting may improve reproducibility, performance and quality of the final compost as well as help to evaluate the potential human health risk and the choice of the most appropriate application procedure. In this study, the co-composting of mixtures containing two similar components (organic fraction of municipal solid waste and sawdust polluted by oil) and one discriminate component (sewage sludges of different origin) were investigated. Bacterial and fungal community successions in the two mixtures were analyzed during the composting process by determining the change in their structural dynamics using qPCR and 454 pyrosequencing methods in a lab experiment for a period of 270 days. During the initial composting stage, the number of 16S bacterial copies was (3.0\xc2\xb10.2) x 106 and (0.4\xc2\xb10.0) x 107 g-1, and the Rhodospiralles and Lactobacialles orders dominated. Fungal communities had (2.9\xc2\xb10.0) x105 and (6.1\xc2\xb10.2) x105 ITS copies g-1, and the Saccharomycetales order dominated. At the end of the thermophilic stage on the 30th day of composting, bacterial and fungal communities underwent significant changes: dominants changed and their relative abundance decreased. Typical compost residents included Flavobacteriales, Chitinophagaceae and Bacterioidetes for bacteria and Microascaceae, Dothideomycetes, Eurotiomycetes, Sordariomycetes, and Agaricomycetes for fungi. During the later composting stages, the dominating taxa of both bacterial and fungal communities remained, while their relative abundance decreased. In accordance with the change in the dominating OTUs, it was concluded that the dynamics of the bacterial and fungal communities were not similar. Analysis by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) revealed that the bacterial communities of the two composts became progressively more similar; a similar trend was followed by the fungal community. labels: #Bacterial Physiological Phenomena#Fungi#Soil'
b'Alcelaphine herpesvirus 1 (AlHV-1) is a \xce\xb3-herpesvirus (\xce\xb3-HV) belonging to the macavirus genus that persistently infects its natural host, the wildebeest, without inducing any clinical sign. However, cross-transmission to other ruminant species causes a deadly lymphoproliferative disease named malignant catarrhal fever (MCF). AlHV-1 ORF73 encodes the latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA)-homolog protein (aLANA). Recently, aLANA has been shown to be essential for viral persistence in vivo and induction of MCF, suggesting that aLANA shares key properties of other \xce\xb3-HV genome maintenance proteins. Here we have investigated the evasion of the immune response by aLANA. We found that a glycin/glutamate (GE)-rich repeat domain was sufficient to inhibit in cis the presentation of an epitope linked to aLANA. Although antigen presentation in absence of GE was dependent upon proteasomal degradation of aLANA, a lack of GE did not affect protein turnover. However, protein self-synthesis de novo was downregulated by aLANA GE, a mechanism directly associated with reduced antigen presentation in vitro. Importantly, codon-modification of aLANA GE resulted in increased antigen presentation in vitro and enhanced induction of antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses in vivo, indicating that mRNA constraints in GE rather than peptidic sequence are responsible for cis-limitation of antigen presentation. Nonetheless, GE-mediated limitation of antigen presentation in cis of aLANA was dispensable during MCF as rabbits developed the disease after virus infection irrespective of the expression of full-length or GE-deficient aLANA. Altogether, we provide evidence that inhibition in cis of protein synthesis through GE is likely involved in long-term immune evasion of AlHV-1 latent persistence in the wildebeest natural host, but dispensable in MCF pathogenesis. labels: #Animals#Antigen Presentation#Cattle#Gammaherpesvirinae#Glutamic Acid#Glycine#Immune Evasion#Malignant Catarrh#Viral Proteins#Virus Latency'
b'Non-fasting hypertriacylglycerolaemia is a risk factor for CVD and the amount of fat in a meal seems to be the main factor influencing postprandial lipaemia. Although several studies suggest that Ca can increase faecal fat excretion, it is not known whether Ca can decrease postprandial TAG. This study aimed to evaluate the influence of dietary Ca (DC) and supplemental Ca (SC) on lipaemia, glucose metabolism, C-reactive protein (CRP) and adiponectin during postprandial period in obese women challenged with a high-fat meal. In this cross-over controlled trial, sixteen obese women aged 20-50 years were randomly assigned to receive three test meals (approximately 2900 kJ; 48 % fat): high DC (547 mg DC), high SC (HSCM; 500 mg SC-calcium carbonate) and low Ca (42 mg DC). Blood samples were collected in the fasting period and at minutes 120 and 240 after meals to evaluate total cholesterol and fractions, TAG, glucose, insulin, high-sensitivity CRP and adiponectin. Serum levels of TAG and insulin increased significantly after all test meals. Only after HSCM total cholesterol did not present a significant increase and LDL-cholesterol had a significant decrease. Postprandial glucose, HDL-cholesterol, CRP and adiponectin did not present significant changes after the three test meals. The comparative analysis of the effects of the three test meals on serum lipids, glucose, insulin, CRP and adiponectin revealed no significant meal-by-time interaction. These results suggest that in obese women challenged with a high-fat meal DC and SC do not interfere with postprandial lipaemia, glucose metabolism, CRP and adiponectin. labels: #Adiponectin#Adult#Blood Glucose#C-Reactive Protein#Calcium, Dietary#Cholesterol, HDL#Cholesterol, LDL#Cross-Over Studies#Diet#Diet, High-Fat#Dietary Carbohydrates#Dietary Fats#Dietary Proteins#Dietary Supplements#Fasting#Female#Humans#Hyperlipidemias#Insulin#Meals#Middle Aged#Nutrition Assessment#Obesity#Postprandial Period#Single-Blind Method#Triglycerides#Young Adult'
b"Neurodegenerative diseases pose an extraordinary threat to the world's aging population, yet no disease-modifying therapies are available. Although genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified hundreds of risk loci for neurodegeneration, the mechanisms by which these loci influence disease risk are largely unknown. Here, we investigated the association between common genetic variants at the 7p21 locus and risk of the neurodegenerative disease frontotemporal lobar degeneration. We showed that variants associated with disease risk correlate with increased expression of the 7p21 gene TMEM106B and no other genes; co-localization analyses implicated a common causal variant underlying both association with disease and association with TMEM106B expression in lymphoblastoid cell lines and human brain. Furthermore, increases in the amount of TMEM106B resulted in increases in abnormal lysosomal phenotypes and cell toxicity in both immortalized cell lines and neurons. We then combined fine-mapping, bioinformatics, and bench-based approaches to functionally characterize all candidate causal variants at this locus. This approach identified a noncoding variant, rs1990620, that differentially recruits CTCF in lymphoblastoid cell lines and human brain to influence CTCF-mediated long-range chromatin-looping interactions between multiple cis-regulatory elements, including the TMEM106B promoter. Our findings thus provide an in-depth analysis of the 7p21 locus linked by GWASs to frontotemporal lobar degeneration, nominating a causal variant and causal mechanism for allele-specific expression and disease association at this locus. Finally, we show that genetic variants associated with risk of neurodegenerative diseases beyond frontotemporal lobar degeneration are enriched in CTCF-binding sites found in brain-relevant tissues, implicating CTCF-mediated gene regulation in risk of neurodegeneration more generally. labels: #Alleles#Brain#CCCTC-Binding Factor#Cell Line, Tumor#Chromatin#Dementia#Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Regulation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genotype#HeLa Cells#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neurons#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Repressor Proteins#Risk"
b'The cells of the innate immune system, in addition to their capacity to elicit immunity, play a substantial role in immune tolerance induction. Our group has recently shown that a distinct subset of MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidsuppressive macrophages is increased in the lung by intravenous (IV) administration of mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSC) and induces immune tolerance. Herein, we demonstrate that circulating CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes are precursors to MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages in the lung and required for MSC-induced tolerance in a mouse model of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU). Analysis revealed that IV MSC induced an increase in IL-10-expressing MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages in the lung with a concomitant decrease in CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes. Selective depletion of circulating CD11bhiLy6Chicells abrogated the effects of MSC in the induction of IL-10hiMHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages and immune tolerance in EAU mice. Similarly, an increase in CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Tregs by MSCs was also reversed by CD11bhiLy6Chicell depletion. These results suggest that CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes are critical for MSC-induced immune tolerance. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Ly#Autoimmune Diseases#Disease Models, Animal#Immune Tolerance#Immunity, Innate#Lung#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Monocytes#Stem Cell Niche#Uveitis'
b'As a highly conserved mechanism, autophagy is responsible for the transport of cytoplasmic constituents in the vacuoles or lysosomes. Moreover, autophagy is essential for plant development and various stress responses. In this study, 34 MeATGs were systematically identified in cassava, and their transcripts were commonly regulated by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv manihotis (Xam). Through transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana, the subcellular locations of 4 MeATG8s were revealed. Notably, MeWRKY20 was identified as physical interacting protein of MeATG8a/8f/8h and upstream transcriptional activator of MeATG8a. Through virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) in cassava, we found that MeATG8-silenced and MeWRKY20-silenced plants resulted in disease sensitive, with less callose depositions and lower autophagic activity. This study may facilitate our understanding of the upstream MeWRKY20 and underlying target as well as interacting proteins of MeATG8s in immune response. Taken together, MeWRKY20 and MeATG8a/8f/8h are essential for disease resistance against bacterial blight by forming various transcriptional modules and interacting complex in cassava. labels: #Autophagy#Autophagy-Related Protein 8 Family#Genes, Plant#Manihot#Plant Diseases#Plant Proteins#Plants, Genetically Modified#Tobacco#Trans-Activators#Xanthomonas axonopodis'
b"Brain magnetic resonance imaging is an important tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of multiple sclerosis patients. However, magnetic resonance imaging alone provides limited information for predicting an individual patient's disability progression. In part, this is because magnetic resonance imaging lacks sensitivity and specificity for detecting chronic diffuse and multi-focal inflammation mediated by activated microglia/macrophages. The aim of this study was to test for an association between 18 kDa translocator protein brain positron emission tomography signal, which arises largely from microglial activation, and measures of subsequent disease progression in multiple sclerosis patients. Twenty-one patients with multiple sclerosis (seven with secondary progressive disease and 14 with a relapsing remitting disease course) underwent T1- and T2-weighted and magnetization transfer magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and after 1 year. Positron emission tomography scanning with the translocator protein radioligand 11C-PBR28 was performed at baseline. Brain tissue and lesion volumes were segmented from the T1- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and relative 11C-PBR28 uptake in the normal-appearing white matter was estimated as a distribution volume ratio with respect to a caudate pseudo-reference region. Normal-appearing white matter distribution volume ratio at baseline was correlated with enlarging T2-hyperintense lesion volumes over the subsequent year (\xcf\x81 = 0.59, P = 0.01). A post hoc analysis showed that this association reflected behaviour in the subgroup of relapsing remitting patients (\xcf\x81 = 0.74, P = 0.008). By contrast, in the subgroup of secondary progressive patients, microglial activation at baseline was correlated with later progression of brain atrophy (\xcf\x81 = 0.86, P = 0.04). A regression model including the baseline normal-appearing white matter distribution volume ratio, T2 lesion volume and normal-appearing white matter magnetization transfer ratio for all of the patients combined explained over 90% of the variance in enlarging lesion volume over the subsequent 1 year. Glial activation in white matter assessed by translocator protein PET significantly improves predictions of white matter lesion enlargement in relapsing remitting patients and is associated with greater brain atrophy in secondary progressive disease over a period of short term follow-up. labels: #Acetamides#Adult#Atrophy#Brain#Carbon Radioisotopes#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Microglia#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Chronic Progressive#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting#Organ Size#Positron-Emission Tomography#Pyridines#Receptors, GABA#White Matter#Young Adult"
b"Network-sensitive neuroimaging methods have been used to characterize large-scale brain network degeneration in Alzheimer's disease and its prodrome. However, few studies have investigated the combined effect of Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease on brain network degeneration. Our study sought to examine the intrinsic functional connectivity and structural covariance network changes in 235 prodromal and clinical Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. We focused particularly on two higher-order cognitive networks-the default mode network and the executive control network. We found divergent functional connectivity and structural covariance patterns in Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. Alzheimer's disease patients without cerebrovascular disease, but not Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease, showed reductions in posterior default mode network functional connectivity. By comparison, while both groups exhibited parietal reductions in executive control network functional connectivity, only Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease showed increases in frontal executive control network connectivity. Importantly, these distinct executive control network changes were recapitulated in prodromal Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. Across Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease, higher default mode network functional connectivity z-scores correlated with greater hippocampal volumes while higher executive control network functional connectivity z-scores correlated with greater white matter changes. In parallel, only Alzheimer's disease patients without cerebrovascular disease showed increased default mode network structural covariance, while only Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease showed increased executive control network structural covariance compared to controls. Our findings demonstrate the differential neural network structural and functional changes in Alzheimer's disease with and without cerebrovascular disease, suggesting that the underlying pathology of Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease might differ from those without cerebrovascular disease and reflect a combination of more severe cerebrovascular disease and less severe Alzheimer's disease network degeneration phenotype. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alzheimer Disease#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cerebrovascular Disorders#Cognitive Dysfunction#Executive Function#Female#Functional Neuroimaging#Hippocampus#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Neural Pathways#Organ Size"
b'Humans frequently estimate the size of objects to grasp them. In fact, when performing an action, our perception is focused towards the visual properties of the object that enable us to successfully execute the action. However, the motor system is also able to influence perception, but only a few studies have reported evidence for action-induced visual perception modifications. Here, we aimed to look for a feature-specific perceptual modulation before and after a reaching or a grasping action. Human participants were instructed to either reach for or grasp two-dimensional bars of different size and to perform a size perceptual task before and after the action in two contexts: in one where they knew the subsequent type of movement and in the other where they did not know. We found significant modifications of perceived size of stimuli more pronounced after grasping than after reaching. The mere knowledge of the subsequent action type significantly affected the size perception before the movement execution, with consistent results in both manual and verbal reports. These data represent direct evidence that, in natural conditions without manipulation of visual information, the action type and the action context dynamically modulate size perception, by shaping it according to relevant information required to recognize and interact with objects. labels: #Adult#Female#Form Perception#Hand Strength#Humans#Male#Movement#Psychomotor Performance#Size Perception#Young Adult'
b'A large part of classical visual psychophysics was concerned with the fundamental question of how pattern information is initially encoded in the human visual system. From these studies a relatively standard model of early spatial vision emerged, based on spatial frequency and orientation-specific channels followed by an accelerating nonlinearity and divisive normalization: contrast gain-control. Here we implement such a model in an image-computable way, allowing it to take arbitrary luminance images as input. Testing our implementation on classical psychophysical data, we find that it explains contrast detection data including the ModelFest data, contrast discrimination data, and oblique masking data, using a single set of parameters. Leveraging the advantage of an image-computable model, we test our model against a recent dataset using natural images as masks. We find that the model explains these data reasonably well, too. To explain data obtained at different presentation durations, our model requires different parameters to achieve an acceptable fit. In addition, we show that contrast gain-control with the fitted parameters results in a very sparse encoding of luminance information, in line with notions from efficient coding. Translating the standard early spatial vision model to be image-computable resulted in two further insights: First, the nonlinear processing requires a denser sampling of spatial frequency and orientation than optimal coding suggests. Second, the normalization needs to be fairly local in space to fit the data obtained with natural image masks. Finally, our image-computable model can serve as tool in future quantitative analyses: It allows optimized stimuli to be used to test the model and variants of it, with potential applications as an image-quality metric. In addition, it may serve as a building block for models of higher level processing. labels: #Computer Simulation#Contrast Sensitivity#Humans#Orientation#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Psychophysics#Space Perception#Spatial Navigation'
b'Neurological dysfunction following epileptic seizures is a well-recognized phenomenon. Several potential mechanisms have been suggested to explain postictal dysfunction, with alteration in cerebral blood flow being one possibility. These vascular disturbances may be long lasting and localized to brain areas involved in seizure generation and propagation, as supported by both animal and human studies. Therefore, measuring perfusion changes in the postictal period may help localize the seizure onset zone. Arterial spin labelling is a non-invasive, rapid and reproducible magnetic resonance imaging technique that measures cerebral perfusion. To this end, we measured postictal perfusion in patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy who were admitted to our seizure-monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation. Twenty-one patients were prospectively recruited and underwent arterial spin labelling scanning within 90 min of a habitual seizure. Patients also underwent a similar scan in the interictal period, after they were seizure-free for at least 24 h. The acquired scans were subtracted to identify the areas of significant postictal hypoperfusion. The location of the maximal hypoperfusion was compared to the presumed seizure onset zone to assess for concordance. Also, the localizing value of this technique was compared to other structural and functional imaging modalities. Postictal perfusion reductions of>15 units (ml/100 g/l) were seen in 15/21 patients (71.4%). In 12/15 (80%) of these patients, the location of the hypoperfusion was partially or fully concordant with the location of the presumed seizure onset zone. This technique compared favourably to other neuroimaging modalities, being similar or superior to structural magnetic resonance imaging in 52% of cases, ictal single-photon emission computed tomography in 60% of cases and interictal positron emission tomography in 71% of cases. Better arterial spin labelling results were obtained in patients in whom the seizure onset zone was discernible based on non-invasive data. Thus, this technique is a safe, non-invasive and relatively inexpensive tool to detect postictal hypoperfusion that may provide useful data to localize the seizure onset zone. This technique may be incorporated into the battery of conventional investigations for presurgical evaluation of patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy. labels: #Adult#Brain#Brain Mapping#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Drug Resistant Epilepsy#Electroencephalography#Epilepsies, Partial#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Positron-Emission Tomography#Prospective Studies#Seizures#Tomography, Emission-Computed, Single-Photon#Young Adult'
b'Mutations in FUS are causative for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with a dominant mode of inheritance. In trying to model FUS-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in mouse it is clear that FUS is dosage-sensitive and effects arise from overexpression per se in transgenic strains. Novel models are required that maintain physiological levels of FUS expression and that recapitulate the human disease-with progressive loss of motor neurons in heterozygous animals. Here, we describe a new humanized FUS-ALS mouse with a frameshift mutation, which fulfils both criteria: the FUS Delta14 mouse. Heterozygous animals express mutant humanized FUS protein at physiological levels and have adult onset progressive motor neuron loss and denervation of neuromuscular junctions. Additionally, we generated a novel antibody to the unique human frameshift peptide epitope, allowing specific identification of mutant FUS only. Using our new FUSDelta14 ALS mouse-antibody system we show that neurodegeneration occurs in the absence of FUS protein aggregation. FUS mislocalization increases as disease progresses, and mutant FUS accumulates at the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Further, transcriptomic analyses show progressive changes in ribosomal protein levels and mitochondrial function as early disease stages are initiated. Thus, our new physiological mouse model has provided novel insight into the early pathogenesis of FUS-ALS. labels: #Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis#Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Endoplasmic Reticulum, Rough#Frameshift Mutation#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Knock-In Techniques#Heterozygote#Humans#Mice#Mitochondria#Motor Neurons#Neuromuscular Junction#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#RNA-Binding Protein FUS#Ribosomal Proteins'
b'Glioblastoma are highly aggressive brain tumours that are associated with an extremely poor prognosis. Within these tumours exists a subpopulation of highly plastic self-renewing cancer cells that retain the ability to expand ex vivo as tumourspheres, induce tumour growth in mice, and have been implicated in radio- and chemo-resistance. Although their identity and fate are regulated by external cues emanating from endothelial cells, the nature of such signals remains unknown. Here, we used a mass spectrometry proteomic approach to characterize the factors released by brain endothelial cells. We report the identification of the vasoactive peptide apelin as a central regulator for endothelial-mediated maintenance of glioblastoma patient-derived cells with stem-like properties. Genetic and pharmacological targeting of apelin cognate receptor abrogates apelin- and endothelial-mediated expansion of glioblastoma patient-derived cells with stem-like properties in vitro and suppresses tumour growth in vivo. Functionally, selective competitive antagonists of apelin receptor were shown to be safe and effective in reducing tumour expansion and lengthening the survival of intracranially xenografted mice. Therefore, the apelin/apelin receptor signalling nexus may operate as a paracrine signal that sustains tumour cell expansion and progression, suggesting that apelin is a druggable factor in glioblastoma. labels: #Animals#Apelin#Apelin Receptors#Brain Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Endothelial Cells#Glioblastoma#HEK293 Cells#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Mass Spectrometry#Mice#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Proteomics#RNA, Small Interfering#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias, referred to as spinocerebellar ataxias in genetic nomenclature, are a rare group of progressive neurodegenerative disorders characterized by loss of balance and coordination. Despite the identification of numerous disease genes, a substantial number of cases still remain without a genetic diagnosis. Here, we report five novel spinocerebellar ataxia genes, FAT2, PLD3, KIF26B, EP300, and FAT1, identified through a combination of exome sequencing in genetically undiagnosed families and targeted resequencing of exome candidates in a cohort of singletons. We validated almost all genes genetically, assessed damaging effects of the gene variants in cell models and further consolidated a role for several of these genes in the aetiology of spinocerebellar ataxia through network analysis. Our work links spinocerebellar ataxia to alterations in synaptic transmission and transcription regulation, and identifies these as the main shared mechanisms underlying the genetically diverse spinocerebellar ataxia types. labels: #Animals#COS Cells#Cadherins#Cercopithecus aethiops#E1A-Associated p300 Protein#Exome#Female#Gene Regulatory Networks#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Kinesin#Male#Pedigree#Phospholipase D#Plasmids#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Spinocerebellar Ataxias#Transfection'
b'Neuroaxonal pathology is a main determinant of disease progression in multiple sclerosis; however, its underlying pathophysiological mechanisms, including its link to inflammatory demyelination and temporal occurrence in the disease course are still unknown. We used ultra-high field (7 T), ultra-high gradient strength diffusion and T1/T2-weighted myelin-sensitive magnetic resonance imaging to characterize microstructural changes in myelin and neuroaxonal integrity in the cortex and white matter in early stage multiple sclerosis, their distribution in lesional and normal-appearing tissue, and their correlations with neurological disability. Twenty-six early stage multiple sclerosis subjects (disease duration \xe2\x89\xa45 years) and 24 age-matched healthy controls underwent 7 T T2*-weighted imaging for cortical lesion segmentation and 3 T T1/T2-weighted myelin-sensitive imaging and neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging for assessing microstructural myelin, axonal and dendrite integrity in lesional and normal-appearing tissue of the cortex and the white matter. Conventional mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy metrics were also assessed for comparison. Cortical lesions were identified in 92% of early multiple sclerosis subjects and they were characterized by lower intracellular volume fraction (P = 0.015 by paired t-test), lower myelin-sensitive contrast (P = 0.030 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) and higher mean diffusivity (P = 0.022 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) relative to the contralateral normal-appearing cortex. Similar findings were observed in white matter lesions relative to normal-appearing white matter (all P<0.001), accompanied by an increased orientation dispersion (P<0.001 by paired t-test) and lower fractional anisotropy (P<0.001 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) suggestive of less coherent underlying fibre orientation. Additionally, the normal-appearing white matter in multiple sclerosis subjects had diffusely lower intracellular volume fractions than the white matter in controls (P = 0.029 by unpaired t-test). Cortical thickness did not differ significantly between multiple sclerosis subjects and controls. Higher orientation dispersion in the left primary motor-somatosensory cortex was associated with increased Expanded Disability Status Scale scores in surface-based general linear modelling (P<0.05). Microstructural pathology was frequent in early multiple sclerosis, and present mainly focally in cortical lesions, whereas more diffusely in white matter. These results suggest early demyelination with loss of cells and/or cell volumes in cortical and white matter lesions, with additional axonal dispersion in white matter lesions. In the cortex, focal lesion changes might precede diffuse atrophy with cortical thinning. Findings in the normal-appearing white matter reveal early axonal pathology outside inflammatory demyelinating lesions. labels: #Adult#Anisotropy#Axons#Brain#Cerebral Cortex#Cohort Studies#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Myelin Sheath#Prospective Studies#White Matter'
b'Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of supplemental macular carotenoids (including versus not including meso-zeaxanthin) in combination with coantioxidants on visual function in patients with nonadvanced age-related macular degeneration.Methods: In this study, 121 participants were randomly assigned to group 1 (Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 formulation with a low dose [25 mg] of zinc and an addition of 10 mg meso-zeaxanthin; n = 60) or group 2 (Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 formulation with a low dose [25 mg]of zinc; n = 61). Visual function was assessed using best-corrected visual acuity, contrast sensitivity (CS), glare disability, retinal straylight, photostress recovery time, reading performance, and the National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25. Macular pigment was measured using customized heterochromatic flicker photometry.Results: There was a statistically significant improvement in the primary outcome measure (letter CS at 6 cycles per degree [6 cpd]) over time (P = 0.013), and this observed improvement was statistically comparable between interventions (P = 0.881). Statistically significant improvements in several secondary outcome visual function measures (letter CS at 1.2 and 2.4 cpd; mesopic and photopic CS at all spatial frequencies; mesopic glare disability at 1.5, 3, and 6 cpd; photopic glare disability at 1.5, 3, 6, and 12 cpd; photostress recovery time; retinal straylight; mean and maximum reading speed) were also observed over time (P<0.05, for all), and were statistically comparable between interventions (P>0.05, for all). Statistically significant increases in macular pigment at all eccentricities were observed over time (P<0.0005, for all), and the degree of augmentation was statistically comparable between interventions (P>0.05).Conclusions: Antioxidant supplementation in patients with nonadvanced age-related macular degeneration results in significant increases in macular pigment and improvements in CS and other measures of visual function. (Clinical trial, http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN13894787). labels: #Aged#Antioxidants#Ascorbic Acid#Contrast Sensitivity#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Glare#Humans#Lutein#Macular Degeneration#Macular Pigment#Male#Middle Aged#Photometry#Reading#Trace Elements#Visual Acuity#Vitamin E#Zeaxanthins#Zinc'
b'Mitochondrial calcium homeostasis is a tightly controlled process that is required for a variety of cellular functions. The mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex plays a critical role in this process. MICU2 is a major component of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex and its deficiency has been shown to impair mitochondrial calcium [Ca2+]m homeostasis although the exact mechanism remains unclear. We used exome sequencing, positional mapping, and functional characterization of MICU2 deficiency to investigate the role of MICU2 in calcium homeostasis. Using combined autozygome/exome analysis, a homozygous truncating mutation in MICU2 was found to fully segregate with a neurodevelopmental disorder in the form of severe cognitive impairment, spasticity, and white matter involvement in a multiplex consanguineous family. Patient-derived MICU2-deficient cells displayed impaired [Ca2+]m homeostasis, with associated increase in mitochondrial sensitivity to oxidative stress, and abnormal regulation of inner mitochondrial membrane potential. This is the first demonstration of MICU2 deficiency in humans, which we suggest causes a distinct neurodevelopmental phenotype secondary to impaired mitochondrial calcium uniporter-mediated regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis. labels: #Brain#Calcium#Calcium Channels#Case-Control Studies#Cells, Cultured#Child#Cognitive Dysfunction#Female#Fibroblasts#Homeostasis#Humans#Leukoencephalopathies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Muscle Spasticity#Mutation#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Oxidative Stress#Pedigree#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Siblings'
b'Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome represents a phenotypic spectrum of motor, sensory, and cranial nerve neuropathy, often with ataxia, optic atrophy and respiratory problems leading to ventilator-dependence. Loss-of-function mutations in two riboflavin transporter genes, SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, have recently been linked to Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome. However, the genetic frequency, neuropathology and downstream consequences of riboflavin transporter mutations are unclear. By screening a large cohort of 132 patients with early-onset severe sensory, motor and cranial nerve neuropathy we confirmed the strong genetic link between riboflavin transporter mutations and Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome, identifying 22 pathogenic mutations in SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, 14 of which were novel. Brain and spinal cord neuropathological examination of two cases with SLC52A3 mutations showed classical symmetrical brainstem lesions resembling pathology seen in mitochondrial disease, including severe neuronal loss in the lower cranial nerve nuclei, anterior horns and corresponding nerves, atrophy of the spinothalamic and spinocerebellar tracts and posterior column-medial lemniscus pathways. Mitochondrial dysfunction has previously been implicated in an array of neurodegenerative disorders. Since riboflavin metabolites are critical components of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, we hypothesized that reduced riboflavin transport would result in impaired mitochondrial activity, and confirmed this using in vitro and in vivo models. Electron transport chain complex I and complex II activity were decreased in SLC52A2 patient fibroblasts, while global knockdown of the single Drosophila melanogaster riboflavin transporter homologue revealed reduced levels of riboflavin, downstream metabolites, and electron transport chain complex I activity. This in turn led to abnormal mitochondrial membrane potential, respiratory chain activity and morphology. Riboflavin transporter knockdown in Drosophila also resulted in severely impaired locomotor activity and reduced lifespan, mirroring patient pathology, and these phenotypes could be partially rescued using a novel esterified derivative of riboflavin. Our findings expand the genetic, clinical and neuropathological features of Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome, implicate mitochondrial dysfunction as a downstream consequence of riboflavin transporter gene defects, and validate riboflavin esters as a potential therapeutic strategy. labels: #Adolescent#Animals#Atrophy#Brain#Bulbar Palsy, Progressive#Child#Child, Preschool#Citrate (si)-Synthase#Drosophila melanogaster#Electron Transport Complex I#Electron Transport Complex II#Electron Transport Complex III#Female#Fibroblasts#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Infant#Locomotion#Longevity#Male#Membrane Transport Proteins#Microscopy, Electron#Neural Pathways#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Riboflavin#Spinal Cord#Spinocerebellar Tracts#Spinothalamic Tracts#Young Adult'
b'Prognostic markers of primary progressive multiple sclerosis evolution are needed. We investigated the added value of magnetic resonance imaging measures of brain and cervical cord damage in predicting long-term clinical worsening of primary progressive multiple sclerosis compared to simple clinical assessment. In 54 patients, conventional and diffusion tensor brain scans and cervical cord T1-weighted scans were acquired at baseline and after 15 months. Clinical evaluation was performed after 5 and 15 years in 49 patients. Lesion load, brain and cord atrophy, mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy values from the brain normal-appearing white matter and grey matter were obtained. Using linear regression models, we screened the clinical and imaging variables as independent predictors of 15-year disability change (measured on the expanded disability status scale). At 15 years, 90% of the patients had disability progression. Integrating clinical and imaging variables at 15 months predicted disability changes at 15 years better than clinical factors at 5 years (R2 = 61% versus R2 = 57%). The model predicted long-term disability change with a precision within one point in 38 of 49 patients (77.6%). Integration of clinical and imaging measures allows identification of primary progressive multiple sclerosis patients at risk of long-term disease progression 4 years earlier than when using clinical assessment alone. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anisotropy#Atrophy#Brain#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Disease Progression#Female#Gray Matter#Humans#Linear Models#Longitudinal Studies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Chronic Progressive#Prognosis#Spinal Cord#White Matter'
b'Genetic epilepsies are caused by mutations in a range of different genes, many of them encoding ion channels, receptors or transporters. While the number of detected variants and genes increased dramatically in the recent years, pleiotropic effects have also been recognized, revealing that clinical syndromes with various degrees of severity arise from a single gene, a single mutation, or from different mutations showing similar functional defects. Accordingly, several genes coding for GABAA receptor subunits have been linked to a spectrum of benign to severe epileptic disorders and it was shown that a loss of function presents the major correlated pathomechanism. Here, we identified six variants in GABRA3 encoding the \xce\xb13-subunit of the GABAA receptor. This gene is located on chromosome Xq28 and has not been previously associated with human disease. Five missense variants and one microduplication were detected in four families and two sporadic cases presenting with a range of epileptic seizure types, a varying degree of intellectual disability and developmental delay, sometimes with dysmorphic features or nystagmus. The variants co-segregated mostly but not completely with the phenotype in the families, indicating in some cases incomplete penetrance, involvement of other genes, or presence of phenocopies. Overall, males were more severely affected and there were three asymptomatic female mutation carriers compared to only one male without a clinical phenotype. X-chromosome inactivation studies could not explain the phenotypic variability in females. Three detected missense variants are localized in the extracellular GABA-binding NH2-terminus, one in the M2-M3 linker and one in the M4 transmembrane segment of the \xce\xb13-subunit. Functional studies in Xenopus laevis oocytes revealed a variable but significant reduction of GABA-evoked anion currents for all mutants compared to wild-type receptors. The degree of current reduction correlated partially with the phenotype. The microduplication disrupted GABRA3 expression in fibroblasts of the affected patient. In summary, our results reveal that rare loss-of-function variants in GABRA3 increase the risk for a varying combination of epilepsy, intellectual disability/developmental delay and dysmorphic features, presenting in some pedigrees with an X-linked inheritance pattern. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Brain Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Cleft Palate#Developmental Disabilities#Epilepsy#Facies#Female#Genetic Variation#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Microcephaly#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Nystagmus, Pathologic#Oocytes#Patch-Clamp Techniques#Pedigree#Receptors, GABA-A#Syndrome#Xenopus laevis#Young Adult#gamma-Aminobutyric Acid'
b"Exaggerated basal ganglia beta activity (13-35 Hz) is commonly found in patients with Parkinson's disease and can be suppressed by dopaminergic medication, with the degree of suppression being correlated with the improvement in motor symptoms. Importantly, beta activity is not continuously elevated, but fluctuates to give beta bursts. The percentage number of longer beta bursts in a given interval is positively correlated with clinical impairment in Parkinson's disease patients. Here we determine whether the characteristics of beta bursts are dependent on dopaminergic state. Local field potentials were recorded from the subthalamic nucleus of eight Parkinson's disease patients during temporary lead externalization during surgery for deep brain stimulation. The recordings took place with the patient quietly seated following overnight withdrawal of levodopa and after administration of levodopa. Beta bursts were defined by applying a common amplitude threshold and burst characteristics were compared between the two drug conditions. The amplitude of beta bursts, indicative of the degree of local neural synchronization, progressively increased with burst duration. Treatment with levodopa limited this evolution leading to a relative increase of shorter, lower amplitude bursts. Synchronization, however, was not limited to local neural populations during bursts, but also, when such bursts were cotemporaneous across the hemispheres, was evidenced by bilateral phase synchronization. The probability of beta bursts and the proportion of cotemporaneous bursts were reduced by levodopa. The percentage number of longer beta bursts in a given interval was positively related to motor impairment, while the opposite was true for the percentage number of short duration beta bursts. Importantly, the decrease in burst duration was also correlated with the motor improvement. In conclusion, we demonstrate that long duration beta bursts are associated with an increase in local and interhemispheric synchronization. This may compromise information coding capacity and thereby motor processing. Dopaminergic activity limits this uncontrolled beta synchronization by terminating long duration beta bursts, with positive consequences on network state and motor symptoms. labels: #Aged#Basal Ganglia#Beta Rhythm#Deep Brain Stimulation#Dopamine Agents#Electroencephalography#Electroencephalography Phase Synchronization#Female#Humans#Levodopa#Male#Middle Aged#Parkinson Disease#Prosthesis Implantation#Subthalamic Nucleus"
b'Some sweeteners show a synergistic enhancement of perceived sweetness when they are tasted as binary mixtures. In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Behrens et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) find that a surprising explanation for this classic observation may lie in their reciprocal inhibition of bitter taste receptors. labels: #Cyclamates#Drug Synergism#Saccharin#Sweetening Agents#Taste Perception'
b"In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Telling et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) apply advanced X-ray microscopy techniques to reveal magnetite iron species in plaques from a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. The characterization of abnormal iron chemistry in the disease model highlights the potential for iron to combine with the \xce\xb2-amyloid peptide and accelerate the disease process. labels: #Alzheimer Disease#Iron#Molecular Imaging#Nanotechnology"
b'Streptomyces are the principle source of antibiotics in clinical use, but what the bacteria use these molecules for remains largely a mystery. In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Hoefler et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) demonstrate a direct link between biosynthesis of the polyketide linearmycins and extracellular membrane vesicles. labels: #Biological Products#Streptomyces'
b'In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Diaz et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) report a strategy to achieve temporal, spatial, and stoichiometric control over the protein kinase cAbl in living cells. They achieve this by splitting cAbl into two inactive fragments that form an active kinase upon small molecule addition, potentially providing a general way to probe the wiring of signal transduction networks. labels: #Biocatalysis#Enzyme Activation#HeLa Cells#Humans#Protein Engineering#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-abl#Signal Transduction#src-Family Kinases'
b'Mitochondrial antiviral signaling platform protein (MAVS) acts as a central hub for RIG-I receptor proximal signal propagation. However, key components in the assembly of the MAVS mitochondrial platform that promote RIG-I mitochondrial localization and optimal activation are still largely undefined. Employing pooled RNAi and yeast two-hybrid screenings, we report that the mitochondrial adaptor protein tripartite motif (TRIM)14 provides a docking platform for the assembly of the mitochondrial signaling complex required for maximal activation of RIG-I-mediated signaling, consisting of WHIP and protein phosphatase PPP6C. Following viral infection, the ubiquitin-binding domain in WHIP bridges RIG-I with MAVS by binding to polyUb chains of RIG-I at lysine 164. The ATPase domain in WHIP contributes to stabilization of the RIG-I-dsRNA interaction. Moreover, phosphatase PPP6C is responsible for RIG-I dephosphorylation. Together, our findings define the WHIP-TRIM14-PPP6C mitochondrial signalosome required for RIG-I-mediated innate antiviral immunity. labels: #ATPases Associated with Diverse Cellular Activities#Animals#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Cercopithecus aethiops#DEAD Box Protein 58#DNA-Binding Proteins#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Multiprotein Complexes#Phosphoprotein Phosphatases#Signal Transduction#Vero Cells#Virus Diseases#Viruses'
b'The roles of CDK4 in the cell cycle have been extensively studied, but less is known about the mechanisms underlying the metabolic regulation by CDK4. Here, we report that CDK4 promotes anaerobic glycolysis and represses fatty acid oxidation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) by targeting the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). We also show that fatty acid oxidation (FAO) is specifically induced by AMPK complexes containing the \xce\xb12 subunit. Moreover, we report that CDK4 represses FAO through direct phosphorylation and inhibition of AMPK\xce\xb12. The expression of non-phosphorylatable AMPK\xce\xb12 mutants, or the use of a CDK4 inhibitor, increased FAO rates in MEFs and myotubes. In addition, Cdk4-/-mice have increased oxidative metabolism and exercise capacity. Inhibition of CDK4 mimicked these alterations in normal mice, but not when skeletal muscle was AMPK deficient. This novel mechanism explains how CDK4 promotes anabolism by blocking catabolic processes (FAO) that are activated by AMPK. labels: #AMP-Activated Protein Kinases#Animals#Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4#Embryo, Mammalian#Fatty Acids#Fibroblasts#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Mutation#Oxidation-Reduction#Physical Conditioning, Animal'
b'The proper location and timing of Dnmt1 activation are essential for DNA methylation maintenance. We demonstrate here that Dnmt1 utilizes two-mono-ubiquitylated histone H3 as a unique ubiquitin mark for its recruitment to and activation at DNA methylation sites. The crystal structure of the replication foci targeting sequence (RFTS) of Dnmt1 in complex with H3-K18Ub/23Ub reveals striking differences to the known ubiquitin-recognition structures. The two ubiquitins are simultaneously bound to the RFTS with a combination of canonical hydrophobic and atypical hydrophilic interactions. The C-lobe of RFTS, together with the K23Ub surface, also recognizes the N-terminal tail of H3. The binding of H3-K18Ub/23Ub results in spatial rearrangement of two lobes in the RFTS, suggesting the opening of its active site. Actually, incubation of Dnmt1 with H3-K18Ub/23Ub increases its catalytic activity in\xc2\xa0vitro. Our results therefore shed light on the essential role of a unique ubiquitin-binding module in DNA methylation maintenance. labels: #Animals#Crystallography, X-Ray#DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase 1#DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferases#DNA Methylation#Histones#Humans#Protein Binding#Protein Structure, Quaternary#Ubiquitin#Xenopus laevis'
b'To ensure the completion of DNA replication and maintenance of genome integrity, DNA repair factors protect stalled replication forks upon replication stress. Previous studies have identified a critical role for the tumor suppressors BRCA1 and BRCA2 in preventing the degradation of nascent DNA by the MRE11 nuclease after replication stress. Here we show that depletion of SMARCAL1, a SNF2-family DNA translocase that remodels stalled forks, restores replication fork stability and reduces the formation of replication stress-induced DNA breaks and chromosomal aberrations in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. In addition to SMARCAL1, other SNF2-family fork remodelers, including ZRANB3 and HLTF, cause nascent DNA degradation and genomic instability in BRCA1/2-deficient cells upon replication stress. Our observations indicate that nascent DNA degradation in BRCA1/2-deficient cells occurs as a consequence of MRE11-dependent nucleolytic processing of reversed forks generated by fork remodelers. These studies provide mechanistic insights into the processes that cause genome instability in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. labels: #BRCA2 Protein#Cell Line, Tumor#DNA Breaks#DNA Helicases#DNA-Binding Proteins#Genomic Instability#Humans#MRE11 Homologue Protein#Transcription Factors#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'RING and U-box E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate diverse eukaryotic processes and have been implicated in numerous diseases, but targeting these enzymes remains a major challenge. We report the development of three ubiquitin variants (UbVs), each binding selectively to the RING or U-box domain of a distinct E3 ligase: monomeric UBE4B, phosphorylated active CBL, or dimeric XIAP. Structural and biochemical analyses revealed that UbVs specifically inhibited the activity of UBE4B or phosphorylated CBL by blocking the E2\xe2\x88\xbcUb binding site. Surprisingly, the UbV selective for dimeric XIAP formed a dimer to stimulate E3 activity by stabilizing the closed E2\xe2\x88\xbcUb conformation. We further verified the inhibitory and stimulatory functions of UbVs in cells. Our work provides a general strategy to inhibit or activate RING/U-box E3 ligases and provides a resource for the research community to modulate these enzymes. labels: #Drug Discovery#Enzyme Activators#Enzyme Inhibitors#HEK293 Cells#HeLa Cells#Humans#Protein Multimerization#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligase Complexes#X-Linked Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein'
b'Chromosome conformation capture technologies have revealed important insights into genome folding. Yet, how spatial genome architecture is related to gene expression and cell fate remains unclear. We comprehensively mapped 3D chromatin organization during mouse neural differentiation in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo, generating the highest-resolution Hi-C maps available to date. We found that transcription is correlated with chromatin insulation and long-range interactions, but dCas9-mediated activation is insufficient for creating TAD boundaries de novo. Additionally, we discovered long-range contacts between gene bodies of exon-rich, active genes in all cell types. During neural differentiation, contacts between active TADs become less pronounced while inactive TADs interact more strongly. An extensive Polycomb network in stem cells is disrupted, while\xc2\xa0dynamic interactions between neural transcription factors appear in\xc2\xa0vivo. Finally, cell type-specific enhancer-promoter contacts are established concomitant to gene expression. This work shows that multiple factors influence the dynamics of chromatin interactions in development. labels: #Animals#CCCTC-Binding Factor#Chromatin#Embryonic Stem Cells#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Exons#Gene Expression#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genome#Mice#Neurogenesis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Repressor Proteins#Transcription Factors'
b'The mTORC1 kinase is a master growth regulator that senses many environmental cues, including amino acids. Activation of mTORC1 by arginine requires SLC38A9, a poorly understood lysosomal membrane protein with homology to amino acid transporters. Here, we validate that SLC38A9 is an arginine sensor for the mTORC1 pathway, and we uncover an unexpectedly central role for SLC38A9 in amino acid homeostasis. SLC38A9 mediates the transport, in an arginine-regulated fashion, of many essential amino acids out of lysosomes, including leucine, which mTORC1 senses through the cytosolic Sestrin proteins. SLC38A9 is necessary for leucine generated via lysosomal proteolysis to exit lysosomes and activate mTORC1. Pancreatic cancer cells, which use macropinocytosed protein as a nutrient source, require SLC38A9 to form tumors. Thus, through SLC38A9, arginine serves as a lysosomal messenger that couples mTORC1 activation to the release from lysosomes of the essential amino acids needed to drive cell growth. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Amino Acid Transport Systems#Amino Acids, Essential#Animals#Arginine#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Humans#Lysosomes#Male#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Multiprotein Complexes#Sequence Alignment#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases'
b'Ferroptosis is a form of programmed cell death that is pathogenic to several acute and chronic diseases and executed via oxygenation of polyunsaturated phosphatidylethanolamines (PE) by 15-lipoxygenases (15-LO) that normally use free polyunsaturated fatty acids as substrates. Mechanisms of the altered 15-LO substrate specificity are enigmatic. We sought a common ferroptosis regulator for 15LO. We discovered that PEBP1, a scaffold protein inhibitor of protein kinase cascades, complexes with two 15LO isoforms, 15LO1 and 15LO2, and changes their substrate competence to generate hydroperoxy-PE. Inadequate reduction of hydroperoxy-PE due to insufficiency or dysfunction of a selenoperoxidase, GPX4, leads to ferroptosis. We demonstrated the importance of PEBP1-dependent regulatory mechanisms of ferroptotic death in airway epithelial cells in asthma, kidney epithelial cells in renal failure, and cortical and hippocampal neurons in brain trauma. As master regulators of ferroptotic cell death with profound implications for human disease, PEBP1/15LO complexes represent a new target for drug discovery. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Animals#Apoptosis#Asthma#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Cell Death#Cell Line#Humans#Isoenzymes#Lipoxygenase#Mice#Models, Molecular#Oxazolidinones#Oxidation-Reduction#Phosphatidylethanolamine Binding Protein'
b'Angiopoietins signal through TIE receptors to control both developmental and homeostatic processes that can go awry in genetic diseases and cancer. This SnapShot illustrates key elements of angiopoietin signaling in normal and disease contexts. labels: #Angiopoietins#Endothelial Cells#Humans#Inflammation#Lymphangiogenesis#Neovascularization, Pathologic'
b'The gut microbiota contributes to the development of normal immunity but, when dysregulated, can promote autoimmunity through various non-antigen-specific effects on pathogenic and regulatory lymphocytes. Here, we show that an integrase expressed by several species of the gut microbial genus Bacteroides encodes a low-avidity mimotope of the pancreatic \xce\xb2 cell autoantigen islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase-catalytic-subunit-related protein (IGRP206-214). Studies in germ-free mice monocolonized with integrase-competent, integrase-deficient, and integrase-transgenic Bacteroides demonstrate that the microbial epitope promotes the recruitment of diabetogenic CD8+ T\xc2\xa0cells to the gut. There, these effectors suppress colitis by targeting microbial antigen-loaded, antigen-presenting cells in an integrin \xce\xb27-, perforin-, and major\xc2\xa0histocompatibility complex class I-dependent manner. Like their murine counterparts, human peripheral blood T\xc2\xa0cells also recognize Bacteroides integrase. These data suggest that gut microbial antigen-specific cytotoxic T\xc2\xa0cells may have therapeutic value in inflammatory bowel disease and unearth molecular mimicry as a novel mechanism by which the gut microbiota can regulate normal immune homeostasis. PAPERCLIP. labels: #Adult#Animals#Autoantigens#Bacteroides#Colitis#Female#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Glucose-6-Phosphatase#Humans#Lymphoid Tissue#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred NOD#Middle Aged#Molecular Mimicry#T-Lymphocytes'
b'BACKGROUND: Robotic-assisted lobectomy (RL) is becoming a popular alternative technique to video-assisted thoracoscopic lobectomy (VL), although open lobectomy (OL) remains the most common approach. The objective of this study is to provide a comparative analysis of perioperative clinical outcomes from elective RL, VL, and OL.METHODS: The Premier Healthcare Database was analyzed for lobectomies performed from January 1, 2011, to September 30, 2015. International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis and procedure codes were used to identify surgical approaches, complications, and mortality. Propensity score matching (1:1) for patient and hospital characteristics allowed comparison of RL versus OL (n\xc2\xa0= 2,775 each) and RL versus VL (n\xc2\xa0= 2,951 each).RESULTS: Compared with OL in propensity matched analysis, RL was associated with a lower postoperative complication rate (p<0.0001), shorter hospital stay (p<0.0001), and lower mortality rate (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0282). Patients in the RL group were more likely to be discharged home than to a transitional health care facility (p<0.0001). Compared with VL, the RL group had a lower conversion rate to thoracotomy (p<0.0001), lower overall postoperative complication rate (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0061), and shorter hospital stay (p\xc2\xa0= 0.006). The RL patients also were more likely to be discharged home than to a transitional health care facility (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0108). The postoperative mortality rates of RL and VL were similar (p\xc2\xa0= 0.44). There was no difference in iatrogenic injuries when comparing RL with OL and RL with VL (p\xc2\xa0= 0.1284 and p\xc2\xa0= 0.5477, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Robotic-assisted lobectomy was associated with improved outcomes for certain perioperative clinical variables, including shorter length of stay and lower complication rates. It was also was associated with a lower conversion rate to OL compared with VL. labels: #Aged#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonectomy#Postoperative Complications#Prognosis#Propensity Score#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Robotic Surgical Procedures#Survival Analysis#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Thoracotomy#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b"This reports presents a case of a 62-year-old woman with hemorrhagic hypovolemic shock, respiratory distress, and pericardial effusion secondary to right atrial perforation caused by a cement embolus after dorsal spondylodesis. Despite optimal intensive care support for a supposed pulmonary embolism, the patient's condition markedly deteriorated. On delayed embolus recognition by contrast-enhanced computed tomography and transesophageal echocardiography, she had to undergo cardiac surgery. Cardiac involvement is a rare but important complication, with few cases described after vertebroplasty and none after spondylodesis. In our case, diagnosis before perforation would have allowed an endovascular approach, thereby avoiding open heart surgery. labels: #Accidental Falls#Bone Cements#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Critical Illness#Echocardiography, Transesophageal#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Atria#Heart Injuries#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Middle Aged#Pericardial Effusion#Risk Assessment#Spinal Fractures#Spinal Fusion#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome"
b'Tracheobronchial injuries can be difficult to diagnose and\xc2\xa0manage, especially in the presence of polytrauma. A 50-year-old woman presented as a Level I trauma activation after being struck by a motor vehicle. Initial evaluation demonstrated intracranial hemorrhage and multiple chest injuries, including multilevel bilateral rib fractures, pneumomediastinum, and concern for tracheobronchial injury. After initial stabilization, bronchoscopy was performed and demonstrated an injury to the carina. We report a novel airway and ventilation strategy in the setting of concomitant tracheobronchial injury after severe blunt chest trauma in which extracorporeal support is contraindicated. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Bronchi#Bronchoscopy#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Injury Severity Score#Middle Aged#Multiple Trauma#Positive-Pressure Respiration#Radiography, Thoracic#Risk Assessment#Thoracic Injuries#Trachea#Trauma Centers#Treatment Outcome#Wounds, Nonpenetrating'
b'Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) is considered useful for the staging and diagnosis of lung cancer or thoracic lymph node enlargement; however, little is known about its complications. Between July 2009 and November 2016, 413 patients underwent EBUS-TBNA, and four complications (0.97%) occurred. Here we report four cases involving complications of EBUS-TBNA, including mediastinitis (n\xc2\xa0= 2), obstructive pneumonia (n\xc2\xa0= 1), and airway obstruction requiring admission to the intensive care unit (n\xc2\xa0= 1). All patients recovered with appropriate medical treatment. Despite their low incidence, the complications associated with EBUS-TBNA can be serious. labels: #Aged#Airway Obstruction#Cohort Studies#Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Fine Needle Aspiration#Endosonography#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Lymph Nodes#Male#Mediastinitis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Prognosis#Radiography, Thoracic#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'Congenital lobar emphysema is a rare pulmonary malformation typically diagnosed during infancy and is characterized by bullous disease. A 28-year-old woman, who presented with 1 week of progressive dyspnea and chest pain, was found to have left hemithoracic lung hyperinflation with perfusion deficit upon radiographic evaluation. Bullous disease was found intraoperatively to originate from 1 lower lobe segment. Normal parenchymal lung expansion occurred following resection of the affected segment. Therefore, we present a rare case of congenital lobar emphysema resulting in near-complete occupancy of the left hemithorax and diagnosed in a previously asymptomatic adult without history of predisposing factors. labels: #Adult#Bronchoscopy#Chest Pain#Disease Progression#Dyspnea#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Pneumothorax#Positron-Emission Tomography#Pulmonary Emphysema#Radiography, Thoracic#Rare Diseases#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'The shortage of lungs for organ donation is problematic, and meeting the demand by expanding the donor pool in lung transplantation is critical. Donation after cardiac death (DCD) is an under-used approach that could be a valuable source of organs. However, procuring lungs from donors with a previous median sternotomy is technically difficult and is usually avoided. Here, we describe the procurement of lungs from a DCD patient with a previous median sternotomy. labels: #Death#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Graft Survival#Humans#Lung Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Radiography, Thoracic#Risk Assessment#Sternotomy#Tissue Donors#Tissue and Organ Procurement#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Transplant Recipients#Treatment Outcome'
b'Pneumococcal mycotic aneurysms are rare and associated with significant mortality and morbidity. Early intravenous antibiotic therapy and surgical intervention is the mainstay of treatment. Pneumococci frequently autolyze in blood cultures, making microbiological diagnosis challenging. We present the case of a man in his mid 70s with multiple thoracoabdominal mycotic aneurysms. Surgery was performed to a threatening saccular aortic arch aneurysm. Samples were sent for microbiological analysis and all were culture negative. The samples were then referred for bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing, which revealed evidence of infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae. labels: #Aged#Aneurysm, Infected#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Pathology, Molecular#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#RNA, Bacterial#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Streptococcus pneumoniae#Thoracotomy#Treatment Outcome'
b'This report describes the case of undiagnosed posttraumatic coronary artery dissection in a young multiorgan donor. Ex\xc2\xa0vivo preservation with the Organ Care System (TransMedics, Inc, Andover, MA) revealed the presence of coronary disease and avoided transplantation of an organ at high risk for failure. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Aneurysm, Dissecting#Cold Ischemia#Coronary Aneurysm#Diagnostic Errors#Female#Graft Rejection#Heart Transplantation#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Multiple Trauma#Organ Preservation#Tissue Donors'
b'Cor triatriatum sinister is a rare congenital lesion encountered in children. It consists of a fibromuscular membrane that separates the left atrium into two chambers resulting in a triatrial heart and often occurs with other structural cardiac anomalies. The acquired form is uncommon and has only been reported after orthotopic heart transplantation or as a complication of infective endocarditis in adults. These cases were mostly because of hypertrophied atrial tissue or suture lines and torsion of the atrium. We describe the first case of acquired cor triatriatum late after the Fontan procedure with successful surgical resection in a child. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Cardiac Catheterization#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Child#Cor Triatriatum#Double Outlet Right Ventricle#Echocardiography, Doppler, Color#Echocardiography, Transesophageal#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fontan Procedure#Heart Defects, Congenital#Humans#Monitoring, Physiologic#Reoperation#Treatment Outcome'
b'We herein report two cases of progressive left ventricular outflow obstruction after primary repair of arch obstruction and ventricular septal defect that was successfully resolved with Yasui conversion. Patients who require surgical reintervention for progressive left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction after primary biventricular repair of interruption of the aortic arch or coarctation of the aorta complex are occasionally experienced. The modified Konno procedure and Ross operation are well recognized as useful for these cases. However, in some patients, these procedures are difficult to perform because of anatomic restrictions or previous procedures. Although the indications are limited, the Yasui conversion is a safe, simple, and useful option for LVOT obstruction after primary biventricular repair. labels: #Anastomosis, Surgical#Aortic Coarctation#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Cardiopulmonary Bypass#Cardiovascular Abnormalities#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Septal Defects, Ventricular#Humans#Reoperation#Risk Assessment#Sampling Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Surgical Procedures#Ventricular Outflow Obstruction'
b'The double-switch operation for congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries, in which the morphologic left ventricle is restored to the systemic circulation, is an effective surgical option. This case report describes an atrial switch technique without using supplemental material during the double-switch operation for congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries associated with persistent left superior vena cava, with the systemic venous blood flow rerouted through the enlarged coronary sinus. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Arterial Switch Operation#Cardiac Catheterization#Combined Modality Therapy#Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Sinus#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Defects, Congenital#Heart Septal Defects, Atrial#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Infant#Male#Rare Diseases#Risk Assessment#Transposition of Great Vessels#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Surgical Procedures#Vena Cava, Superior'
b'Thoracoscopic S9-10 segmentectomy is more difficult than other segmentectomies because of the complexity of the peripheral pulmonary anatomies and the difficulty of dividing the intersegmental plane. In S9-10 segmentectomy, the intersegmental plane between segments S6 and S8 near the major fissure impedes division of the plane between segments S6 and S9-10, or S8 and S9-10. Dividing the intersegmental plane between segments S6 and S8 with stapling is difficult, because peripheral pulmonary anatomies are not exposed clearly. Herein, we describe the technique of stapler-based thoracoscopic S9-10 segmentectomy under indocyanine green fluorescence navigation. labels: #Aged#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures#Pneumonectomy#Recovery of Function#Solitary Pulmonary Nodule#Surgical Staplers#Thoracoscopy#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'The technical details and anatomic features of medial-basal segment (S7) segmentectomy have not been reported. We report here thoracoscopic S7segmentectomy and S7a subsegmentectomy and explain the anatomic knowledge necessary to perform S7segmentectomy, especially the importance of recognizing bronchus (B7) branching patterns before surgery. labels: #Adult#Aged#Bronchography#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Multidetector Computed Tomography#Multimodal Imaging#Operative Time#Pneumonectomy#Retrospective Studies#Sampling Studies#Thoracoscopy#Treatment Outcome'
b'To date, anatomic subsuperior segment (S\xe2\x88\x97) segmentectomy has not yet been reported. Herein we report the technical details of thoracoscopic anatomic S\xe2\x88\x97 segmentectomy and the anatomic features of the S\xe2\x88\x97. labels: #Bronchography#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Monitoring, Intraoperative#Multidetector Computed Tomography#Multimodal Imaging#Patient Positioning#Pneumonectomy#Risk Assessment#Sampling Studies#Thoracoscopy#Treatment Outcome'
b'We successfully performed a pulmonary vein widening plasty in a patient with pulmonary vein stenosis and occlusion after multiple catheter ablations for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. labels: #Atrial Fibrillation#Catheter Ablation#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Veins#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Stenosis, Pulmonary Vein#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Patency#Vascular Surgical Procedures'
b'Bacopa monnieri (BM) is used in traditional medicine as nerve tonic. We have recently shown that CDRI-08, a standardized extract of BM, improves testicular functions and epididymal sperm quality in Parkes (P) mice. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of CDRI-08 on germ cell dynamics and mechanisms of its action on spermatogenesis and sperm quality in P mice, and to determine the chemical profile of the extract. CDRI-08 (40 and 80\xc2\xa0mg/kg body weight) was orally administered to male mice for 28 days. Germ cell dynamics, oxidative stress parameters in testis and sperm, and expressions of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor-2 (Nrf2), phosphorylated protein kinase B (p-Akt) and upstream kinases in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway namely MAP2K1, MAP2K2 and MKK4 in the testis were evaluated. The treatment potentiated germ cell dynamics and improved sperm quality by enhancing antioxidant enzymes activities. The beneficial effects of CDRI-08 in the testis involve p-Akt-mediated activation of Nrf2, thereby enhancing antioxidant enzymes activities; upregulation of MAP2K1 and MAP2K2 and suppression of MKK4 are also implicated in this action. A total of 26 phytocomponents were identified in CDRI-08 by GC-MS. The results suggest that CDRI-08 also may prove useful in improving reproductive health in males. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Bacopa#India#Lipid Peroxidation#Male#Mice#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Plant Extracts#Plants, Medicinal#RNA, Messenger#Spermatogenesis#Spermatozoa'
b'Retroviral integrase catalyzes the integration of retroviral genome into host chromosomal DNA, which is a prerequisite of effective viral replication and infection. The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) integrase has previously been reported to be regulated by the ubiquitination, but the molecular characterization of integrase ubiquitination is still unclear. In this study, we analyzed the ubiquitination of avian leukosis virus (ALV) integrase in detail. The ubiquitination assay showed that, like HIV-1, ALV integrase could also be modified by ubiquitination when expressed in 293\xc2\xa0T and DF-1\xc2\xa0cells. Domain mapping analysis revealed that the ubiquitination of ALV integrase might mainly occurred in the catalytic core and the N-terminal zinc-binding domains. Both lysine and non-lysine residues within integrase of ALV and HIV-1 were responsible for the ubiquitin conjugation, and the N-terminal HHCC zinc-binding motif might play an important role in mediating integrase ubiquitination. Interestingly, mass spectrometry analysis identified the Thr10 and Cys37 residues in the HHCC zinc-binding motif as the ubiquitination sites, indicating that ubiquitin may be conjugated to ALV integrase through direct interaction with the non-lysine residues. These findings revealed the detailed features of retroviral integrase ubiquitination and found a novel mechanism of ubiquitination mediated by the non-lysine residues within the N-terminal zinc-binding domain of integrase. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Avian Leukosis Virus#Cell Line#Chickens#HEK293 Cells#HIV Integrase#HIV-1#Humans#Integrases#Lysine#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Retroviridae#Retroviridae Proteins#Ubiquitination#Zinc'
b'The acetylation of p53 is critical in modulating its pro-apoptotic roles. However, its regulatory mechanism and physiological significance are unclear. Here, we show HDAC6 negatively regulates pro-apoptotic acetylation of p53\xc2\xa0at lysine residue 120 (K120) in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). The loss of HDAC6 expression in MSCs increases K120 acetylation of p53, which is successfully reversed by the wild-type but not by catalytically dead HDAC6. Deletion of HDAC6 induces caspase-dependent apoptosis by promoting transactivation of Bax and suppression of Bcl-2. Moreover, HDAC6 deficiency leads to mitochondrial dysfunction characterized by aberrant reactive oxygen species production and defective oxidative phosphorylation, which is reversed by ectopic expression of wild-type or acetylation mimetic p53. This study demonstrates that HDAC6 is a critical regulator of a pro-apoptotic p53 K120 acetylation and mitochondrial function in MSCs, suggesting that the modulation of HDAC6 activity could be a novel approach to improve MSC- based therapies. labels: #Acetylation#Animals#Apoptosis#Histone Deacetylase 6#Histone Deacetylases#Lysine#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mitochondria#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'The hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated 2 (HCN2) channel is a major subtype of the HCN channel family expressed in the nervous system that sets the membrane potential, regulates cell excitability and senses changes in the extracellular environment. Neurons express various G\xce\xb1s-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), many of which show ligand-independent constitutive activity. These membrane-bound proteins are expressed in various subcellular compartments of neurons. Therefore, some proportion of HCN2 channels opens in response to the basal cAMP pool size produced by constitutively active GPCRs. Here, we employed an exogenous HEK293 expression system and voltage-clamp patch-clamp recordings to investigate basal HCN2 channel activity in the presence of two GPCRs with diverse basal activities in a single compartment. We utilized the \xce\xb22-adrenoceptor (\xce\xb22AR) together with odorant receptors (ORs), as both GPCR families are known to show strong basal activity. Consequently, \xce\xb22AR alone strongly enhanced the activity of HCN2 channels, and co-expression of ORs further diversified the HCN2 channel activity, which was totally abolished by an adenylate cyclase inhibitor. Thus, we conclude that the dual expression of constitutively active GPCRs establishes the diverse range of the basal cAMP pool size in resting cells through mutual additive or suppressive interactions, even in the absence of external stimulation. labels: #Cyclic AMP#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits, Gs#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Hyperpolarization-Activated Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channels#Ion Channel Gating#Patch-Clamp Techniques#Potassium Channels#Receptors, Adrenergic, beta-2#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Receptors, Odorant#Recombinant Proteins'
b'The encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) 3C protease (3Cpro) is one of a small number of viral proteins whose concentration is known to be regulated by the cellular ubiquitin-proteasome system. Here we report that the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UbcH7/UBE2L3 and the ubiquitin-protein ligase E6AP/UBE3A are components of a previously unknown EMCV 3Cpro-polyubiquitylating pathway. Following the identification of UbcH7/UBE2L3 as a participant in 3Cproubiquitylation, we purified a UbcH7-dependent 3Cpro-ubiquitylating activity from mouse cells, which we identified as E6AP. In\xc2\xa0vitro reconstitution assays demonstrated that E6AP catalyzes the synthesis of 3Cpro-attached Lys48-linked ubiquitin chains, known to be recognized by the 26S proteasome. We found that the 3Cproaccumulates to higher levels in EMCV-infected E6AP knockdown cells than in control cells, indicating a role for E6AP in in\xc2\xa0vivo 3Cproconcentration regulation. We also discovered that ARIH1 functions with UbcH7 to catalyze EMCV 3Cpromonoubiquitylation, but this activity does not influence the in\xc2\xa0vivo 3Cproconcentration. labels: #Animals#Cysteine Endopeptidases#Encephalomyocarditis virus#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Mice#NIH 3T3 Cells#Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex#Recombinant Proteins#Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzymes#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases#Ubiquitination#Viral Proteins'
b'Many critical metabolic functions in the brain require adequate and timely delivery of iron. However, most studies when considering brain iron uptake have ignored the iron requirements of the endothelial cells that form the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Moreover, current models of BBB iron transport do not address regional regulation of brain iron uptake or how neurons, when adapting to metabolic demands, can acquire more iron. In this study, we demonstrate that both iron-poor transferrin (apo-Tf) and the iron chelator, deferoxamine, stimulate release of iron from iron-loaded endothelial cells in an in\xc2\xa0vitro BBB model. The role of the endosomal divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) in BBB iron acquisition and transport has been questioned. Here, we show that inhibition of DMT1 alters the transport of iron and Tf across the endothelial cells. These data support an endosome-mediated model of Tf-bound iron uptake into the brain and identifies mechanisms for local regional regulation of brain iron uptake. Moreover, our data provide an explanation for the disparity in the ratio of Tf to iron transport into the brain that has confounded the field. labels: #Animals#Biological Transport, Active#Blood-Brain Barrier#Brain#Cation Transport Proteins#Cattle#Cells, Cultured#Endosomes#Endothelial Cells#Hepcidins#Iron#Microvessels#Models, Neurological#Transferrin'
b"Mitochondrial (mt) DNA-associated NARP (neurogenic muscle weakness, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa) syndrome is due to mutation in the MT-ATP6 gene. We report the case of a 18-year-old man who presented with deafness, a myoclonic epilepsy, muscle weakness since the age of 10 and further developed a retinitis pigmentosa and ataxia. The whole mtDNA analysis by next-generation sequencing revealed the presence of the 2 bp microdeletion m.9127-9128 del AT in the ATP6 gene at 82% heteroplasmy in muscle and to a lower load in blood (10-20%) and fibroblasts (50%). Using the patient's fibroblasts, we demonstrated a 60% reduction of the oligomycin-sensitive ATPase hydrolytic activity, a 40% decrease in the ATP synthesis and determination of the mitochondrial membrane potential using the fluorescent probe tetramethylrhodamine, ethyl ester indicated a significant reduction in oligomycin sensitivity. In conclusion, we demonstrated that this novel AT deletion in the ATP6 gene is pathogenic and responsible for the NARP syndrome. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Adenosine Triphosphate#Base Sequence#Carrier Proteins#Cells, Cultured#DNA Mutational Analysis#DNA, Mitochondrial#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Membrane Proteins#Mitochondrial Myopathies#Mitochondrial Proton-Translocating ATPases#Oligomycins#Retinitis Pigmentosa#Sequence Deletion#Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVES: The current study is a 1-year follow-up analysis of data from a randomized controlled trial of Enhanced Milieu Teaching (EMT) for toddlers with language delays. Outcomes and predictors of child language and parent intervention implementation were examined 6 and 12 months after the end of the intervention.METHODS: Toddlers with language delays were recruited from the community, and 97 toddlers and parents were randomly assigned to receive usual community treatments or a 3-month EMT intervention with parent training. Multiple regression analyses were used to estimate the differences between groups at the 6- and 12-month follow-up periods. A subgroup of participants with receptive and expressive language delays was used in a post hoc moderator analysis of treatment outcomes.RESULTS: Children in the treatment arm did not differ from children in the control arm at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. However, post hoc analyses revealed that children with receptive-expressive language delays were persistently delayed relative to normative performance throughout the follow-up period.CONCLUSIONS: The immediate effects of the brief delivery of EMT were not sustained over the 1-year follow-up period. However, the short-term intervention may not have been sufficient for children with receptive-expressive delays to develop typical language abilities, suggesting they may need more intensive early intervention. Although this intervention may not be necessary for all children with primary language delays, future research should determine the extent to which children with receptive-expressive delays may benefit from more intensive intervention. labels: #Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Language Development Disorders#Language Therapy#Male#Treatment Outcome'
b'Through coordinated and reciprocal interactions between the epithelium and mesenchyme, diverse integumentary organs form and undergo cyclic renewal. The hair follicle has become the main model to understand this extraordinary regenerative behavior. At the core is the dermal papilla, the organizing center, and the epithelial stem cells that respond to dermal papilla signaling. Two recent papers by Telerman et\xc2\xa0al. and Yang et\xc2\xa0al. unravel new molecular landscapes within the dermal papilla. labels: #Cells, Cultured#Dermis#Epithelium#Germ Cells#Hair#Hair Follicle#Humans#Mesoderm#Regeneration#Sensitivity and Specificity#Signal Transduction#Wnt Signaling Pathway'
b'Using a novel mouse model of scleroderma induced by immunization with topoisomerase-I peptide-loaded dendritic cells, Mehta et\xc2\xa0al. found that early-life antibiotic exposure resulted in increased later-life fibrosis in the skin and lungs. These observations advance the novel concept that gut microbiome alterations caused by early-life exposures may contribute to scleroderma pathogenesis, and warrant in-depth characterization and validation in complementary disease models. labels: #Age Factors#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Autoimmune Diseases#Disease Models, Animal#Disease Progression#Dysbiosis#Fibrosis#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Mice#Pulmonary Fibrosis#Scleroderma, Localized#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune blistering disease caused by anti-desmoglein 3 IgG autoantibodies. It is accepted that interactions between autoreactive B and T cells are key to humoral autoimmunity targeting desmoglein 3. This orchestrated process usually occurs in secondary lymphoid organs, including the spleen and lymph nodes. Thus, it seems likely that autoreactive B cells reside and produce autoantibodies in these tissues. Yuan et\xc2\xa0al. analyzed lymphocytes in the lesional skin of patients with pemphigus vulgaris using several experimental techniques and concluded that desmoglein 3-reactive B cells were present. This finding expands our understanding of the pathogenesis of pemphigus and should be considered when following the clinical course of skin lesions and thinking about adjunctive therapy. labels: #Autoantibodies#Autoimmunity#B-Lymphocytes#Biomarkers#Biopsy, Needle#Cell Communication#Desmoglein 3#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Immunohistochemistry#Interleukin-17#Interleukins#Male#Pemphigus#Risk Assessment#Sensitivity and Specificity#T-Lymphocytes'
b'Deletion of late cornified envelope (LCE) genes LCE3B and LCE3C (LCE3B/C-del) is a psoriasis risk factor linked to the major psoriasis risk gene HLA-C*06. Niehues et\xc2\xa0al. demonstrate that LCE3B/C-del leads to increased keratinocyte LCE3A expression. They also show that LCE3A/B/C possess antimicrobial activity but do not obviously regulate epidermal barrier integrity. These findings implicate LCE proteins in psoriasis pathogenesis via a new functional role. labels: #Anti-Infective Agents#Case-Control Studies#Cornified Envelope Proline-Rich Proteins#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Psoriasis#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Classical biochemical techniques have contributed a great deal to our understanding of the mechanisms regulating fundamental biological processes. However, these approaches are typically end-point, population-based assays and are often insufficient in examining transient molecular events. F\xc3\xb6rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy is a powerful technique capable of investigating dynamic interactions between proteins and a plethora of biochemical signaling events based on the development of specific biosensors. This technique exploits the principle that when FRET occurs, energy from a donor fluorophore is transferred to an acceptor fluorophore only when certain conditions are met. These include dependence on both distance and fluorophore orientation. In this article, applications of FRET microscopy to protein interactions and modifications are discussed, and examples are given of the types of biosensors that can be developed. There are a number of methods to measure FRET. The most common modalities and specific advantages and shortcomings for each are reviewed. Finally, general considerations and guidelines for choosing a method are discussed. labels: #Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer#Humans#Microscopy#Proteins#Research Design#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Traditionally, personalised nutrition was delivered at an individual level. However, the concept of delivering tailored dietary advice at a group level through the identification of metabotypes or groups of metabolically similar individuals has emerged. Although this approach to personalised nutrition looks promising, further work is needed to examine this concept across a wider population group. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to: (1) identify metabotypes in a European population and (2) develop targeted dietary advice solutions for these metabotypes. Using data from the Food4Me study (n 1607), k-means cluster analysis revealed the presence of three metabolically distinct clusters based on twenty-seven metabolic markers including cholesterol, individual fatty acids and carotenoids. Cluster 2 was identified as a metabolically healthy metabotype as these individuals had the highest Omega-3 Index (6\xc2\xb756 (sd 1\xc2\xb729) %), carotenoids (2\xc2\xb715 (sd 0\xc2\xb771) \xc2\xb5m) and lowest total saturated fat levels. On the basis of its fatty acid profile, cluster 1 was characterised as a metabolically unhealthy cluster. Targeted dietary advice solutions were developed per cluster using a decision tree approach. Testing of the approach was performed by comparison with the personalised dietary advice, delivered by nutritionists to Food4Me study participants (n 180). Excellent agreement was observed between the targeted and individualised approaches with an average match of 82 % at the level of delivery of the same dietary message. Future work should ascertain whether this proposed method could be utilised in a healthcare setting, for the rapid and efficient delivery of tailored dietary advice solutions. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Carotenoids#Cholesterol#Cluster Analysis#European Continental Ancestry Group#Fatty Acids, Omega-3#Female#Health Education#Healthy Diet#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Metabolome#Middle Aged#Nutrition Policy#Nutritional Status#Precision Medicine#Young Adult'
b'A maternal high-fat, high-sucrose (HFS) diet alters offspring glucose and lipid homoeostasis through unknown mechanisms and may be modulated by folic acid. We investigated the effect of a maternal HFS diet on glucose homoeostasis, expression of genes and proteins associated with insulin signalling and lipid metabolism and the effect of prenatal folic acid supplementation (HFS/F) in male rat offspring. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly fed control (CON), HFS or HFS/F diets. Offspring were weaned on CON; at postnatal day 70, fasting plasma insulin and glucose and liver and skeletal muscle gene and protein expression were measured. Treatment effects were assessed by one-way ANOVA. Maternal HFS diet induced higher fasting glucose in offspring v. HFS/F (P=0\xc2\xb7027) and down-regulation (P<0\xc2\xb705) of genes coding for v-Akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 2, resistin and v-Raf-1 murine leukaemia viral oncogene homolog 1 (Raf1) in offspring skeletal muscle and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (Acaca), fatty acid synthase and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-biphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit \xce\xb2 in offspring liver. Skeletal muscle neuropeptide Y and hepatic Kruppel-like factor 10 were up-regulated in HFS v. CON offspring (P<0\xc2\xb705). Compared with CON, Acaca and Raf1 protein expression levels were significantly lower in HFS offspring. Maternal HFS induced higher homoeostasis model of assessment index of insulin resistance v. CON (P=0\xc2\xb7030) and HFS/F was associated with higher insulin (P=0\xc2\xb7016) and lower glucose (P=0\xc2\xb7025). Maternal HFS diet alters offspring insulin sensitivity and de novo hepatic lipogenesis via altered gene and protein expression, which appears to be potentiated by folate supplementation. labels: #Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Blood Glucose#Diet, High-Fat#Down-Regulation#Fatty Acid Synthases#Female#Folic Acid#Insulin#Insulin Resistance#Lipid Metabolism#Liver#Male#Maternal Nutritional Physiological Phenomena#Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor)#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-raf#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Resistin#Up-Regulation'
b'Colonic effects of extruded whole-grain sorghum diets were evaluated using a model of growing rats. In all, twenty-four male Wistar rats were fed control (C), extruded white sorghum (EWS) or red sorghum (ERS). Consumption of sorghum diets showed satiety properties, with reduction of caecal pH, and lower activity of \xce\xb2-glucosidase and \xce\xb2-glucuronidase enzymes. Decreased copper zinc superoxide dismutase and manganese superoxide dismutase and increased catalase and glutathione peroxidase levels were observed in colonic mucosa. The induction of antioxidant enzymes occurred through the activation of the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 protein and its subsequent translocation into the nucleus. ERS was able to decrease the proliferation of proximal mucosa of colon, demonstrating a possible effect against colorectal tumourigenesis. EWS increased proliferation and also apoptosis, ensuring the re-establishment of homoeostasis of the colonic mucosa. No antioxidant systemic effect (serum or hepatic level) was observed. It is likely that despite the extrusion the low bioavailability of the phenolic compounds of sorghum diets caused them to exert mainly acute effects at the colon level. Extruded whole-grain sorghum is a good functional ingredient that might be promising in dietary prevention of intestinal diseases. labels: #Animals#Catalase#Colon#Diet#Disease Models, Animal#Glucuronidase#Glutathione Peroxidase#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Intestinal Diseases#Intestinal Mucosa#Male#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Satiation#Sorghum#Superoxide Dismutase#Whole Grains#beta-Glucosidase'
b'BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have yielded variants at>30 loci that associate with atrial\xc2\xa0fibrillation (AF), including rare coding mutations in the sarcomere genes MYH6 and MYL4.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to search for novel AF associations and in doing so gain insights into the mechanisms whereby variants affect AF risk, using electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements.METHODS: The authors performed a GWAS of 14,255 AF cases and 374,939 controls, using whole-genome sequence data from the Icelandic population, and tested novel signals in 2,002 non-Icelandic cases and 12,324 controls. They then tested the AF variants for effect on cardiac electrical function by using measurements in 289,297 ECGs from 62,974 individuals.RESULTS: The authors discovered 2 novel AF variants, the intergenic variant rs72700114, between the genes LINC01142 and METTL11B (risk allele frequency\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.1%; odds ratio [OR]: 1.26; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa03.1\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-18), and the missense variant p.Gly4098Ser in PLEC (frequency\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.2%; OR: 1.55; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.0\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-10), encoding plectin, a cytoskeletal cross-linking protein that contributes to integrity of cardiac tissue. The authors also confirmed 29 reported variants. p.Gly4098Ser in PLEC significantly affects various ECG measurements in the absence of AF. Other AF variants have diverse effects on the\xc2\xa0conduction system, ranging from none to extensive.CONCLUSIONS: The discovery of a missense variant in PLEC affecting AF combined with recent discoveries of variants in\xc2\xa0the sarcomere genes MYH6 and MYL4 points to an important role of myocardial structure in the pathogenesis of the\xc2\xa0disease. The diverse associations between AF variants and ECG measurements suggest fundamentally different\xc2\xa0categories of mechanisms contributing to the development of AF. labels: #Atrial Fibrillation#Electrocardiography#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genomic Structural Variation#Humans#Mutation, Missense#Myosin Light Chains#Plectin#Risk#Sarcomeres'
b'Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein F (hnRNP F) controls the expression of various genes through regulating the alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs in the nucleus. It uses three quasi-RNA recognition motifs (qRRMs) to recognize G-tract RNA which contains at least three consecutive guanines. The structures containing qRRMs of hnRNP F in complex with G-tract RNA have been determined by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, shedding light on the recognition mechanism of qRRMs with G-tract RNA. However, knowledge of the recognition details is still lacking. To investigate how qRRMs specifically bind with G-tract RNA and how the mutations of any guanine to an adenine in the G-tract affect the binding, molecular dynamics simulations with binding free energy analysis were performed based on the NMR structure of qRRM2 in complex with G-tract RNA. Simulation results demonstrate that qRRM2 binds strongly with G-tract RNA, but any mutation of the G-tract leads to a drastic reduction of the binding free energy. Further comparisons of the energetic components reveal that van der Waals and non-polar interactions play essential roles in the binding between qRRM2 and G-tract RNA, but the interactions are weakened by the effect of RNA mutations. Structural and dynamical analyses indicate that when qRRM2 binds with G-tract RNA, both qRRM2 and G-tract maintain stabilized structures and dynamics; however, the stability is disrupted by the mutations of the G-tract. These results provide novel insights into the recognition mechanism of qRRM2 with G-tract RNA that are not elucidated by the NMR technique. labels: #Base Sequence#Binding Sites#Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group F-H#Humans#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Mutation#Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular#Nucleic Acid Conformation#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation#Protein Stability#RNA#RNA Recognition Motif#RNA-Binding Motifs'
b'Forkhead box k1 (FOXK1) is a member of the FOX class of transcription factors and it is dysregulated in many solid tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and prostate cancer. However, the expression status of FOXK1 and its clinical significance in esophageal cancer (EC) is still uncertain. Our study aimed at investigating the significance of FOXK1 expression in human EC and its biological function in the development of EC. We found that FOXK1 was overexpressed in EC tissues compared with corresponding non-tumor tissues using immunohistochemistry. And high FOXK1 expression was related to poor differentiation of EC. The Kaplan-Meier curve indicated that high FOXK1 expression may result in poor prognosis of EC patients. Furthermore, overexpression of FOXK1 in EC9706\xc2\xa0cell inhibited cell apoptosis and promoted cell proliferation and migration, and suppression of FOXK1 in EC109\xc2\xa0cell obtained reverse results. Our data suggest that FOXK1 plays an oncogenic role in EC pathogenesis and can serve as a therapeutic target for patients with EC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Oncogene Proteins#Prognosis#RNA, Small Interfering'
b'TGF-\xce\xb2 type III receptor (T\xce\xb2RIII) is a co-receptor for TGF\xce\xb2 family members required for high-affinity binding of these ligands to their receptors, potentiating their cellular functions. TGF-\xce\xb2s, Bone Morphogenetic Proteins (BMP2/4) and Inhibins/Activins regulate different checkpoints during T cell differentiation. We have previously reported that T\xce\xb2RIII modulates T cell development by protecting developing thymocytes from apoptosis, however the role of this co-receptor in peripheral lymphocytes still remains elusive. Here we describe a detailed characterization of T\xce\xb2RIII expression in murine and human lymphocyte subpopulations demonstrating that this co-receptor is significantly expressed in T but not B lymphocytes and among them, preferentially expressed on na\xc3\xafve and central memory T cells. T\xce\xb2RIII was upregulated after TCR stimulation, in parallel to other early activation markers. In contrast, natural and induced Tregs downregulated T\xce\xb2RIII in association with FoxP3 upregulation. Finally, anti-T\xce\xb2RIII blocking experiments demonstrated that T\xce\xb2RIII promotes TGF\xce\xb2-dependent iTreg conversion in\xc2\xa0vitro, and suggest that this co-receptor may be involved in modulating peripheral T cell tolerance and could be considered as a potential target to boost T cell immune responses. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Humans#Immunologic Memory#In Vitro Techniques#Lymphocyte Activation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Proteoglycans#Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell#Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta#Signal Transduction#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Up-Regulation'
b'Dysregulated potassium (K+) channels have previously been shown to promote the development and progression of many types of cancers. Meanwhile, K+channels are particularly important in regulating the endocrine and exocrine functions of pancreas. However, the expression pattern and prognostic significance of K+channels in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain unknown. In this study, by screening a GEO dataset containing 36 microdissected PDAC and matching normal pancreatic tissue samples, four differentially expressed K+channels (KCNJ5, KCNJ16, KCNN4 and KCNK1) were identified in PDAC. by immunohistochemical analysis of pancreatic tissue sections from Pdx1-Cre; LSL-KrasG12D/+mice (KC), Pdx1-Cre; LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+mice (KPC) and human PDAC tissue microarrays, we found that Ca2+-activated K+channel KCNN4 was significantly elevated in pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) and PDAC epithelia compared with untransformed pancreas tissues. Higher epithelial KCNN4 expression was closely correlated with advanced TNM stages and predicted a poor prognosis in patients with PDAC. Elevated KCNN4 expression was significantly associated with shorter survival in univariable and multivariable analyses. Collectively, the identification of expression pattern of K+channels in PDAC and its precursor PanIN demonstrates the importance of KCNN4 channel during the malignant transformation of PDAC. On the basis of the prognostic signals from two independent cohorts, KCNN4 should be considered as a promising therapeutic target. labels: #Aged#Animals#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma in Situ#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Intermediate-Conductance Calcium-Activated Potassium Channels#Male#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Middle Aged#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Potassium Channels, Tandem Pore Domain#Prognosis'
b'Insulin resistance is a major defect underlying type 2 diabetes development. Skeletal muscle tissue and adipocyte tissue are the major sites of postprandial glucose disposal, and enhancing glucose uptake into this tissue may decrease insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes patients. Mahanine (3,11-dihydro-3,5-dimethyl-3-(4-methyl-3-pentenyl)pyrano[3,2-a]carbazol-9-ol) has been reported to be a major bioactive carbazole alkaloid that has many biological activities including antitumor, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anti-diabetic activities. However, the molecular mechanism and signaling pathways mediating the anti-diabetic effects of mahanine require further investigation. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of mahanine, a carbazole alkaloid from Murraya koenigii, on glucose uptake and glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) translocation in skeletal muscle and adipocyte cells. Mahanine treatment promoted a dose dependent increased in glucose uptake in L6 myotubes and adipocyte cells via activation of the Akt signaling pathway. Mahanine induced Akt-activation was reversed by co-treatment with wortmannin, an Akt inhibitor. Moreover, it was found that mahanine significantly enhanced GLUT4 translocation to the plasma membrane in L6 myotubes. These results suggest that increased activation of the Akt signaling pathway lead to increased plasma membrane GLUT4 content and increased glucose uptake. These data strongly suggest that mahanine has anti-diabetic potential for treating diabetes. labels: #3T3-L1 Cells#AMP-Activated Protein Kinases#Adipocytes#Animals#Biological Transport, Active#Carbazoles#Cell Line#Cell Membrane#Cell Survival#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Glucose#Glucose Transporter Type 4#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin Resistance#Mice#Muscle Fibers, Skeletal#Muscle, Skeletal#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Bisphenol A (BPA) is one of the most widely used chemicals, often used in epoxy resins, health products and colors. This study aims to investigate the effect of various doses of BPA on hepatotoxicity in rats.METHOD: This experimental study was conducted using 20 male adult Wistar rats older than 2 months weighing 150-200\xc2\xa0g. (5, 25 and 125\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/kg) BPA was administered by gavage for 35 consecutive days. The animals were weighed at the beginning and the end of the experiment. The level of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase were determined using colorimetric method. The liver tissue was kept in the freezer at\xc2\xa0-80\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C for histological studies.FINDING: The body weight of rats receiving BPA decreased significantly compared to control group and this weight loss was more evident at doses of 25 and 125\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/kg (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Results of the study demonstrated that the level of ALP and AST decreases significantly (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001 and p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05, respectively), while the level of ALT did not change. The results that BPA significantly decreased Beta-2 protein and increased Gama protein serum levels in rats (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01).CONCLUSION: Results of this study demonstrated that BPA increase gamma globulin protein levels and decreases the level of alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase and serum protein \xce\xb22 and causes weight loss in rats after treatment. This research also demonstrated that the toxic effect of BPA on liver is induced by oxidative stress. labels: #Alanine Transaminase#Alkaline Phosphatase#Animals#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Benzhydryl Compounds#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Environmental Pollutants#Liver#Male#Oxidative Stress#Phenols#Rats#Rats, Wistar'
b"Pathogen avoidance behaviors are found throughout the animal kingdom and are important for animal's survival in nature. As a free-living nematode, C.\xc2\xa0elegans is exposed to a variety of microorganisms, including toxic or pathogenic bacteria, in soil. C.\xc2\xa0elegans can develop efficient avoidance responses to pathogenic bacteria to minimize the infection risk. However, the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in pathogen avoidance in C.\xc2\xa0elegans remains unclear. In this report, we showed that the miRNA mir-67 was involved in a behavioral avoidance response to P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14. Exposure to P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14 induced the expression of mir-67 in worms. mir-67(n4899) mutants exhibited a reduced ability to avoid P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14. By combining quantitative proteomic analysis with miRNA target prediction algorithms, we identified SAX-7/L1CAM, which is transmembrane cell adhesion receptor molecule, as the target of mir-67. Silencing of sax-7 by RNAi on mir-67 mutants rescued avoidance behavioral. Our data demonstrate that the mir-67-SAX-7 pathway modulate the behavioral avoidance response to pathogens, thus providing a new perspective in the role of miRNAs in host-microbe interactions. labels: #Animals#Avoidance Learning#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Host-Pathogen Interactions#MicroRNAs#Neural Cell Adhesion Molecules#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#RNA, Helminth#Signal Transduction"
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the association between stress hyperglycemia and risk of new stroke in patients with a minor ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack.METHODS: A subgroup of 3026 consecutive patients from 73 prespecified sites of the CHANCE trial (Clopidogrel in High-Risk Patients With Acute Nondisabling Cerebrovascular Events) were analyzed. Stress hyperglycemia was measured by glucose/glycated albumin (GA) ratio. Glucose/GA ratio was calculated by fasting plasma glucose divided by GA and categorized into 4 even groups according to the quartiles. The primary outcome was a new stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic) at 90 days. We assessed the association between glucose/GA ratio and risk of stroke by multivariable Cox regression models adjusted for potential covariates.RESULTS: Among 3026 patients included, a total of 299 (9.9%) new stroke occurred at 3 months. Compared with patients with the lowest quartile, patients with the highest quartile of glucose/GA ratio was associated with an increased risk of stroke at 3 months after adjusted for potential covariates (12.0% versus 9.2%; adjusted hazard ratio, 1.46; 95% confidence interval, 1.06-2.01). Similar results were observed after further adjusted for fasting plasma glucose. We also observed that higher level of glucose/GA ratio was associated with an increased risk of stroke with a threshold of 0.29 using a Cox regression model with restricted cubic spline.CONCLUSIONS: Stress hyperglycemia, measured by glucose/GA ratio, was associated with an increased risk of stroke in patients with a minor ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00979589. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Blood Glucose#Brain Ischemia#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Hyperglycemia#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Serum Albumin#Stroke#Ticlopidine'
b'of surveillance testing, April to June 2017International disease occurrence in the second quarter of 2017These are among matters discussed in the most recent quarterly equine disease surveillance report, prepared by Defra, the Animal Health Trust and the British Equine Veterinary Association. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Infections#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Horse Diseases#Horses#Internationality#Male#Parasitic Diseases, Animal#Pregnancy#Sentinel Surveillance#United Kingdom#Virus Diseases'
b'There are more migrants, refugees, and immigrants adrift in the world today than at any time in the recent past. Doctors and hospitals must care for people from many different cultures, countries, and religious backgrounds. We sometimes find our own deeply held beliefs and values challenged. In this "Ethics Rounds," we present a case in which a Pakistani immigrant family faces a tragic medical situation and wants to deal with it in ways that might be normative in their own culture but are aberrant in ours. We asked the American doctors and 2 Pakistani health professionals to think through the issues. We also invited the father to talk about his own experience and preferences. We conclude that strict adherence to Western ethical norms may not always be the best choice. Instead, an approach based on cultural humility may often allow people on both sides of a cultural divide to learn from one another. labels: #Attitude to Death#Child#Communication#Cross-Cultural Comparison#Humans#Male#Pakistan#Physician-Patient Relations#Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Children with severe influenza infection may require parenteral therapy if oral or inhaled therapies are ineffective or cannot be administered. Results from a study investigating intravenous (IV) zanamivir for the treatment of hospitalized infants and children with influenza are presented.METHODS: This phase II, open-label, multicenter, single-arm study assessed the safety of investigational IV zanamivir in hospitalized children with influenza. Safety outcomes included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), clinical laboratory measurements, and vital signs. Clinical outcomes, pharmacokinetics, and virologic efficacy data were collected as key secondary outcomes.RESULTS: In total, 71 children received treatment with investigational IV zanamivir (exposure comparable to 600 mg twice daily in adults). TEAEs and serious TEAEs (STEAEs) were reported in 51 (72%) and 15 (21%) patients, respectively. The mortality rate was 7%, and median durations of hospital and ICU stays were 6 and 7.5 days, respectively. No STEAEs or deaths were considered related to IV zanamivir treatment, and no patterns of TEAEs, laboratory abnormalities, or vital signs were observed. The mean zanamivir exposures from 34 patients with normal renal function who received 12 mg/kg, 14 mg/kg, or 600 mg of IV zanamivir ranged from 64.5 to 110 hour\xc2\xb7\xc2\xb5g/mL. The median change from baseline in the viral load was -1.81 log10copies per mL after 2 days of treatment.CONCLUSIONS: The safety profile of IV zanamivir was favorable, with no drug-related STEAEs reported. The majority of children experienced virologic response and clinical improvement during the treatment course. Systemic zanamivir exposures in children were consistent with adults. labels: #Adolescent#Antiviral Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Infant#Influenza, Human#Infusions, Intravenous#Male#Neutropenia#Viral Load#Zanamivir'
b'Cryopreservation of Senegalese sole sperm can represent an alternative to overcome some reproductive problems of this species. However, it is important to guarantee the safe use of cryopreserved sperm by selecting an appropriate protocol according to a high demand quality need to be ensured. It has been demonstrated that traditional assays such as motility and viability do not provide enough information to identify specific damage caused by cryopreservation process (freezing and thawing). Specific tests, including lipid peroxidation and DNA damage, should be performed. In the present study, motility and lipid peroxidation were performed as specific tests allowing us to discard cryopreservation conditions such as methanol as internal cryoprotectant and bovine serum albumin as external cryoprotectant. In addition, a caspase 3/7 detection by flow cytometry was performed to analyze apoptosis activity in the best selected conditions. Moreover, new highly sensitive tests based on transcript number detection have recently been described in fish sperm cryopreservation. For this reason, a transcript level detection assay was performed on certain oxidative and chaperone genes related to fertilization ability and embryo development (hsp70, hsp90BB, hsp90AA, gpx) to select the best cryopreservation conditions. DMSO+ egg yolk proved to be the best cryoprotectant combination in terms of transcript level. This study describes an optimized cryopreservation protocol for Solea senegalensis sperm demonstrating for the first time that transcript degradation is the most sensitive predictor of cell status in this species after cryopreservation. labels: #Animals#Cryopreservation#Flatfishes#Male#Semen Preservation#Spermatozoa'
b'INTRODUCTION: Existing studies on facial growth were mostly cross-sectional in nature and only a limited number of facial measurements were investigated. The purposes of this study were to longitudinally investigate facial growth of Chinese in Hong Kong from 12 through 15 to 18 years of age and to compare the magnitude of growth changes between genders.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Standardized frontal and lateral facial photographs were taken from 266 (149 females and 117 males) and 265 (145 females and 120 males) participants, respectively, at all three age levels. Linear and angular measurements, profile inclinations, and proportion indices were recorded. Statistical analyses were performed to investigate growth changes of facial features. Comparisons were made between genders in terms of the magnitude of growth changes from ages 12 to 15, 15 to 18, and 12 to 18 years. For the overall face, all linear measurements increased significantly (p<0.05) except for height of the lower profile in females (p = 0.069) and width of the face in males (p = 0.648). In both genders, the increase in height of eye fissure was around 10% (p<0.001). There was significant decrease in nasofrontal angle (p<0.001) and increase in nasofacial angle (p<0.001) in both genders and these changes were larger in males. Vermilion-total upper lip height index remained stable in females (p = 0.770) but increased in males (p = 0.020). Nasofrontal angle (effect size: 0.55) and lower vermilion contour index (effect size: 0.59) demonstrated large magnitude of gender difference in the amount of growth changes from 12 to 18 years.CONCLUSIONS: Growth changes of facial features and gender differences in the magnitude of facial growth were determined. The findings may benefit different clinical specialties and other nonclinical fields where facial growth are of interest. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Face#Female#Hong Kong#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Photogrammetry'
b"PURPOSE: To assess the optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) retinal vessel density and foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in children with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and compare potential pathologic early changes in this population to healthy age-matched controls.METHODS: This study included 130 pubescent children: 94 with T1D (188 eyes) and 36 of their age-matched control group (60 eyes). OCTA was performed using AngioVue (Avanti, Optivue). FAZ area (mm2) in superficial plexus, whole superficial capillary vessel density (wsVD), fovea superficial vessel density (fsVD), parafovea superficial vessel density (psVD), whole deep vessel density (wdVD), fovea deep vessel density (fdVD), parafovea deep vessel density (pdVD), foveal thickness (FT) (\xce\xbcm) and parafoveal thickness (PFT) (\xce\xbcm) were taken into analysis. Among the studied patients with T1D there were assessed codependences regarding the investigated foveal and parafoveal parameters and selected potential predictors, i.e. patient's age (years), diabetes duration time (years), age of onset of the disease (years), mean level of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C) (%), and concentration of serum creatinine (mg/dL).RESULTS: None of the abovementioned OCT and OCTA parameters was statistically significantly different between the groups. The patient's age statistically significantly did not influent any of the OCT and OCTA parameters. Yet an elevated level of HbA1C tended to reduce the parafovea superficial vessel density (p = 0.039), and parafoveal thickness (p = 0.003) and an increased serum creatinine level correlated with the decreased whole deep vessel density (p<0.001). The parafovea deep vessel density in the diabetic patients decreased when the serum creatinine level (p = 0.008), age of onset of the disease (p = 0.028), and diabetes duration time (p = 0.014) rose.CONCLUSIONS: Vessel density, both in superficial and deep plexuses, and FAZ area are normal in pubescent children with T1D comparing to healthy subjects. An elevated level of HbA1C correlated with reduced psVD and PFT. Longitudinal observation of these young patients is needed to determine if any of these OCTA measurements are predictive of future DR severity. labels: #Adolescent#Case-Control Studies#Child#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence"
b'Defining the vocal repertoire provides a basis for understanding the role of acoustic signals in sexual and social interactions of an animal. The Asian koel (Eudynamys scolopacea) is a migratory bird which spends its summer breeding season in the plains of Pakistan. The bird is typically wary and secretive but produces loud and distinct calls, making it easily detected when unseen. Like the other birds in the wild, presumably Asian koels use their calls for social cohesion and coordination of different behaviors. To date, the description of vocal repertoire of the male Asian koel has been lacking. Presently we analyzed and described for the first time the vocalizations of the adult male Asian koel, recorded in two consecutive breeding seasons. Using 10 call parameters, we categorized the vocalization type into six different categories on the basis of spectrogram and statistical analyses, namely the; "type 1 cooee call", "type 2 cooee call", "type 1 coegh call", "type 2 coegh call", "wurroo call" and "coe call". These names were assigned not on the basis of functional analysis and were therefore onomatopoeic. Stepwise cross validated discriminant function analysis classified the vocalization correctly (100%) into the predicted vocal categories that we initially classified on the basis of spectrographic examination. Our findings enrich the biological knowledge about vocalizations of the adult male Asian koel and provide a foundation for future acoustic monitoring of the species, as well as for comparative studies with vocalizations of other bird species of the cuckoo family. Further studies on the vocalizations of the Asian koel are required to unravel their functions in sexual selection and individual recognition. labels: #Animals#Birds#Breeding#Male#Sexual Behavior, Animal'
b'Increasing temperature and CO2 concentrations can alter tritrophic interactions in ecosystems, but the impact of increasingly severe drought on such interactions is not well understood. We examined the response of a wheat-aphid-parasitoid system to variation in water-deficit stress levels. Our results showed that arid area clones of the aphid, Sitobion avenae (Fabricius), tended to have longer developmental times compared to semiarid and moist area clones, and the development of S. avenae clones tended to be slower with increasing levels of water-deficit. Body sizes of S. avenae clones from all areas decreased with increasing water-deficit levels, indicating their declining adaptation potential under drought. Compared to arid area clones, moist area clones of S. avenae had a higher frequency of backing under severe water stress only, but a higher frequency of kicking under well-watered conditions only, suggesting a water-deficit level dependent pattern of resistance against the parasitoid, Aphidius gifuensis (Ashmead). The number of S. avenae individuals attacked by the parasitoid in 10 min showed a tendency to decrease with increasing water-deficit levels. Clones of S. avenae tended to have lower parasitism rates under treatments with higher water-deficit levels. The development of the parasitoid tended to be slower under higher levels of water-deficit stress. Thus, the bottom-up effects of water-deficit stressed plants were negative on S. avenae. However, the top-down effects via parasitoids were compromised by water-deficit, which could favor the growth of aphid populations. Overall, the first trophic level under water-deficit stress was shown to have an indirect and negative impact on the third trophic level parasitoid, suggesting that parasitoids could be increasingly vulnerable in future warming scenarios. labels: #Animals#Aphids#Dehydration#Triticum'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there are differences in autonomic nervous system function in early- versus late-onset preeclampsia.METHODS: Matched case-control study. Cases were defined as singleton pregnancies with preeclampsia at<34+0 weeks of gestation (early-onset preeclampsia) and \xe2\x89\xa5 34+0 weeks of gestation (late-onset preeclampsia). For each case in each of the preeclampsia subgroups, three "control"uncomplicated singleton pregnancies were matched by maternal age, height, and week of gestation. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured continuously for 30 minutes in each participant. Baroreceptor reflex sensitivity (assessed using sequence technique), time and frequency domain heart rate variability measures, as SDNN, RMSSD, LFRRI, HFRRI and LF/HFRRI of R-R intervals, were compared between groups (p<0.05 significant).RESULTS: 24 women with preeclampsia (10 with early-onset and 14 with late-onset preeclampsia) and 72 controls were included in the study. SDNN, RMSSD and HFRRI were significantly higher in the late-onset preeclampsia group compared to gestational age matched controls (p = 0.033, p = 0.002 and p = 0.018, respectively). No significant differences in SDNN RMSSD and HFRRI between early-onset preeclampsia group and gestational age matched controls were observed (p = 0.304, p = 0.325 and p = 0.824, respectively). Similarly, baroreceptor reflex sensitivity was higher in late-onset preeclampsia compared to controls at \xe2\x89\xa5 34 weeks (p = 0.037), but not different between early-onset preeclampsia compared to controls at<34 weeks (p = 0.50).CONCLUSIONS: Heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity are increased in late- but not early-onset preeclampsia compared to healthy pregnancies. This indicates a better autonomic nervous system mediated adaptation to preeclampsia related cardiovascular changes in late-onset disease. labels: #Adult#Case-Control Studies#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Pre-Eclampsia#Pregnancy#Pressoreceptors'
b"BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that strength training effects (i.e. neural or structural) vary, depending on the total repetitions performed and velocity loss in each training set.PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to compare the effects of two training programmes (i.e. one with loads that maximise power output and individualised repetitions, and the other following traditional power training).METHODS: Twenty-five males were divided into three groups (optimum power [OP = 10], traditional training [TT = 9]and control group [CG = 6]). The training load used for OP was individualised using loads that maximised power output (41.7% \xc2\xb1 5.8 of one repetition maximum [1RM]) and repetitions at maximum power (4 to 9 repetitions, or 'reps'). Volume (sets x repetitions) was the same for both experimental groups, while intensity for TT was that needed to perform only 50% of the maximum number of possible repetitions (i.e. 61.1%-66.6% of 1RM). The training programme ran over 11 weeks (2 sessions per week; 4-5 sets per session; 3-minute rests between sets), with pre-, intermediate and post-tests which included: anthropometry, 1RM, peak power output (PPO) with 30%, 40% and 50% of 1RM in the bench press throw, and salivary testosterone (ST) and cortisol (SC) concentrations. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE) and power output were recorded in all sessions.RESULTS: Following the intermediate test, PPO was increased in the OP group for each load (10.9%-13.2%). Following the post-test, both experimental groups had increased 1RM (11.8%-13.8%) and PPO for each load (14.1%-19.6%). Significant decreases in PPO were found for the TT group during all sets (4.9%-15.4%), along with significantly higher RPE (37%).CONCLUSION: OP appears to be a more efficient method of training, with less neuromuscular fatigue and lower RPE. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Muscle Strength#Resistance Training"
b"The red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus) has long-served as a model system in ecology, evolution, and behavior, and studies surveying molecular variation in this species have become increasingly common over the past decade. However, difficulties are commonly encountered when extending microsatellite markers to populations that are unstudied from a genetic perspective due to high levels of genetic differentiation across this species' range. To ameliorate this issue, we used 454 pyrosequencing to identify hundreds of microsatellite loci. We then screened 40 of our top candidate loci in populations in Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Ohio-including an isolated island population ~ 4.5 km off the shore of Lake Erie (South Bass Island). We identified 25 loci that are polymorphic in a well-studied region of Virginia and 11 of these loci were polymorphic in populations located in the genetically unstudied regions of Ohio and Pennsylvania. Use of these loci to examine patterns of variation within populations revealed that South Bass Island has low diversity in comparison to other sites. However, neither South Bass Island nor isolated populations around Cleveland are inbred. Assessment of variation between populations revealed three well defined genetic clusters corresponding to Virginia, mainland Ohio/Pennsylvania, and South Bass Island. Comparisons of our results to those of others working in various parts of the range are consistent with the idea that differentiation is lower in regions that were once glaciated. However, these comparisons also suggest that well differentiated isolated populations in the formerly glaciated portion of the range are not uncommon. This work provides novel genetic resources that will facilitate population genetic studies in a part of the red-backed salamander's range that has not previously been studied in this manner. Moreover, this work refines our understanding of how neutral variation is distributed in this ecologically important organism. labels: #Animals#Genetic Markers#Genetic Variation#Microsatellite Repeats#Ohio#Pennsylvania#Urodela#Virginia"
b'BACKGROUND: Chronic exposure of mammalian organism to morphine results in adaption to persistent high opioid tone through homeostatic adjustments. Our previous results indicated that in the frontal brain cortex (FBC) of rats exposed to morphine for 10 days, such a compensatory adjustment was detected as large up-regulation of adenylylcyclases I (8-fold) and II (2.5-fold). The other isoforms of AC (III-IX) were unchanged. Importantly, the increase of ACI and ACII was reversible as it disappeared after 20 days of morphine withdrawal. Changes of down-stream signaling molecules such as G proteins and adenylylcyclases should respond to and be preceded by primary changes proceeding at receptor level. Therefore in our present work, we addressed the problem of reversibility of the long-term morphine effects on \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR protein levels in FBC.METHODS: Rats were exposed to increasing doses of morphine (10-40 mg/kg) for 10 days and sacrificed either 24 h (group +M10) or 20 days (group +M10/-M20) after the last dose of morphine in parallel with control animals (groups -M10 and -M10/-M20). Post-nuclear supernatant (PNS) fraction was prepared from forebrain cortex, resolved by 1D-SDS-PAGE under non-dissociated (-DTT) and dissociated (+DTT) conditions, and analyzed for the content of \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR by immunoblotting with C- and N-terminus oriented antibodies.RESULTS: Significant down-regulation of \xce\xb4-OR form exhibiting Mw \xe2\x89\x88 60 kDa was detected in PNS prepared from both (+M10) and (+M10/-M20) rats. However, the total immunoblot signals of \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR, respectively, were unchanged. Plasma membrane marker Na, K-ATPase, actin and GAPDH were unaffected by morphine in both types of PNS. Membrane-domain marker caveolin-1 and cholesterol level increased in (+M10) rats and this increase was reversed back to control level in (+M10/-M20) rats.CONCLUSIONS: In FBC, prolonged exposure of rats to morphine results in minor (\xce\xb4-OR) or no change (\xce\xbc- and \xce\xba-OR) of opioid receptor content. The reversible increases of caveolin-1 and cholesterol levels suggest participation of membrane domains in compensatory responses during opioid withdrawal.GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Analysis of reversibility of morphine effect on mammalian brain. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional#Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel#Male#Morphine#Prosencephalon#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Receptors, Opioid, delta#Receptors, Opioid, kappa#Receptors, Opioid, mu#Substance Withdrawal Syndrome'
b"Three-dimensional (3D-) body scanning of children and adolescents allows the detailed study of physiological development in terms of anthropometrical alterations which potentially provide early onset markers for obesity. Here, we present a systematic analysis of body scanning data of 2,700 urban children and adolescents in the age range between 5 and 18 years with the special aim to stratify the participants into distinct body shape types and to describe their change upon development. In a first step, we extracted a set of eight representative meta-measures from the data. Each of them collects a related group of anthropometrical features and changes specifically upon aging. In a second step we defined seven body types by clustering the meta-measures of all participants. These body types describe the body shapes in terms of three weight (lower, normal and overweight) and three age (young, medium and older) categories. For younger children (age of 5-10 years) we found a common 'early childhood body shape' which splits into three weight-dependent types for older children, with one or two years delay for boys. Our study shows that the concept of body types provides a reliable option for the anthropometric characterization of developing and aging populations. labels: #Adolescent#Anthropometry#Child#Child, Preschool#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Urban Population"
b'Calpains are a family of intracellular proteases defined by a conserved protease domain. In the marine mollusk Aplysia californica, calpains are important for the induction of long-term synaptic plasticity and memory, at least in part by cleaving protein kinase Cs (PKCs) into constitutively active kinases, termed protein kinase Ms (PKMs). We identify 14 genes encoding calpains in Aplysia using bioinformatics, including at least one member of each of the four major calpain families into which metazoan calpains are generally classified, as well as additional truncated and atypical calpains. Six classical calpains containing a penta-EF-hand (PEF) domain are present in Aplysia. Phylogenetic analysis determined that these six calpains come from three separate classical calpain families. One of the classical calpains in Aplysia, AplCCal1, has been implicated in plasticity. We identify three splice cassettes and an alternative transcriptional start site in AplCCal1. We characterize several of the possible isoforms of AplCCal1 in vitro, and demonstrate that AplCCal1 can cleave PKCs into PKMs in a calcium-dependent manner in vitro. We also find that AplCCal1 has a novel mechanism of auto-inactivation through N-terminal cleavage that is modulated through its alternative transcriptional start site. labels: #Animals#Aplysia#Calpain#Neuronal Plasticity#Phylogeny#Transcription, Genetic'
b'BACKGROUND: There is widespread evidence that statistical methods play an important role in original research articles, especially in medical research. The evaluation of statistical methods and reporting in journals suffers from a lack of standardized methods for assessing the use of statistics. The objective of this study was to develop and evaluate an instrument to assess the statistical intensity in research articles in a standardized way.METHODS: A checklist-type measure scale was developed by selecting and refining items from previous reports about the statistical contents of medical journal articles and from published guidelines for statistical reporting. A total of 840 original medical research articles that were published between 2007-2015 in 16 journals were evaluated to test the scoring instrument. The total sum of all items was used to assess the intensity between sub-fields and journals. Inter-rater agreement was examined using a random sample of 40 articles. Four raters read and evaluated the selected articles using the developed instrument.RESULTS: The scale consisted of 66 items. The total summary score adequately discriminated between research articles according to their study design characteristics. The new instrument could also discriminate between journals according to their statistical intensity. The inter-observer agreement measured by the ICC was 0.88 between all four raters. Individual item analysis showed very high agreement between the rater pairs, the percentage agreement ranged from 91.7% to 95.2%.CONCLUSIONS: A reliable and applicable instrument for evaluating the statistical intensity in research papers was developed. It is a helpful tool for comparing the statistical intensity between sub-fields and journals. The novel instrument may be applied in manuscript peer review to identify papers in need of additional statistical review. labels: #Biomedical Research#Observer Variation#Publishing'
b'Pyridoxine dependent epilepsy (PDE) is caused by likely pathogenic variants in ALDH7A1 (PDE-ALDH7A1) and inherited autosomal recessively. Neurotoxic alpha-amino adipic semialdehyde (alpha-AASA), piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid accumulate in body fluids. Neonatal or infantile onset seizures refractory to anti-epileptic medications are clinical features. Treatment with pyridoxine, arginine and lysine-restricted diet does not normalize neurodevelopmental outcome or accumulation of neurotoxic metabolites. There is no animal model for high throughput drug screening. For this reason, we developed and characterized the first knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish model using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. Zebrafish aldh7a1 mutants were generated by using a vector free method of CRISPR-Cas9 mutagenesis. Genotype analysis of aldh7a1 knock-out zebrafish was performed by high resolution melt analysis, direct sequencing and QIAxcel system. Electroencephalogram was performed. Alpha-AASA, piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid, were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Our knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish has homozygous 5 base pair (bp) mutation in ALDH7A1. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos have spontaneous rapid increase in locomotion and a rapid circling swim behavior earliest 8-day post fertilization (dpf). Electroencephalogram revealed large amplitude spike discharges compared to wild type. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos have elevated alpha-AASA, piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid compared to wild type embryos at 3 dpf. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos showed no aldh7a1 protein by western blot compared to wild type. Our knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish is a well characterized model for large-scale drug screening using behavioral and biochemical features and accurately recapitulates the human PDE-ALDH7A1 disease. labels: #Action Potentials#Aldehyde Dehydrogenase#Animals#Behavior, Animal#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Electroencephalography#Epilepsy#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Pyridoxine#Zebrafish'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether population-specific normative data should be employed when screening neurocognitive functioning as part of physician fitness for duty evaluations. If so, to provide such norms based on the evidence currently available.METHODS: A comparison of published data from four sources was analyzed. Data from the two physician samples were then entered into a meta-analysis to obtain full information estimates and generate provisional norms for physicians.RESULTS: Two-way analysis of variance (Study x Index) revealed a significant main effect and an interaction. Results indicate differences in mean levels of performance and standard deviation for physicians.CONCLUSIONS: Reliance on general population normative data results in under-identification of potential neuropsychological difficulties. Population specific normative data are needed to effectively evaluate practicing physicians. labels: #Humans#Neuropsychological Tests#Physicians#Professional Impairment'
b'INTRODUCTION: Many people at high risk for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), e.g., men who have sex with men (MSM), are not optimally reached by current sexual health care systems with testing. To facilitate testing by home-based sampling or sampling in outreach setting we evaluated dried blood spots (DBS), a method for self-collected blood sampling for serological screening of HIV, hepatitis B (HBV) and syphilis. The aims of this study were to assess the acceptability and feasibility of self-collected DBS and to compare the test results for screening of HIV, HBV and syphilis from DBS with blood drawn by venous puncture.METHODS: DBS were collected from men who have sex with men (MSM), visiting the STI clinic of the public health service South Limburg (n = 183) and HIV positive and HBV positive patients (n = 34), visiting the outpatient clinics of the Maastricht University Medical Centre in the period January 2012-April 2015. The 93 first participating MSM visiting the STI clinic were asked to fill in a questionnaire about the feasibility and acceptability about self-collection of DBS in a setting without going to a health care facility and were asked to collect the DBS themselves. Serological screening tests for HIV (HIV combi PT, Roche), HBV (HBsAg, Roche) and syphilis (Treponema pallidum Ig, Biokit 3.0) were performed on DBS and on blood drawn by venous puncture, which was routinely taken for screening.RESULTS: In total 217 participants were included in the study with a median age of 40 years (range between 17-80). Of MSM 84% agreed that it was clear and easy to do the finger-prick, while 53% agreed that it was clear and easy to apply the blood onto the DBS card. Also, 80% of MSM would use the bloodspot test again. In 91% (198) of DBS, sufficient material was collected to perform the three tests. No difference was observed in DBS quality between self-collected DBS and health care worker collected DBS. For HIV (n = 195 DBS-serum pairs) sensitivity and specificity were 100%. For HBV the sensitivity for HBsAg (n = 202) was 90% and specificity was 99%. For syphilis (n = 191) the sensitivity of the DBS was 93% with a specificity of 99%. Analysis of the DBS of HIV positive participants (n = 38) did show similar test performance for HBV and syphilis as in HIV negatives.CONCLUSION: DBS is an acceptable self-sampling method for MSM, as there was no difference in DBS quality in self-collected and health care worker collected DBS. Test performance, i.e., its high sensitivity (>90%) and specificity (>99%) measures show that DBS is a valid alternative for venous blood puncture. Especially when DBS is combined with home-collected sampling for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, complete STI screening can be done in outreach setting and/or home-collected sampling in MSM. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#HIV Infections#Hepatitis B#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Self Care#Specimen Handling#Syphilis#Young Adult'
b'Tropical wetlands are thought to be the most important source of interannual variability in atmospheric methane (CH4) concentrations, yet sparse data prevents them from being incorporated into Earth system models. This problem is particularly pronounced in the neotropics where bottom-up models based on water table depth are incongruent with top-down inversion models suggesting unaccounted sinks or sources of CH4. The newly documented vast areas of peatlands in the Amazon basin may account for an important unrecognized CH4 source, but the hydrologic and biogeochemical controls of CH4 dynamics from these systems remain poorly understood. We studied three zones of a peatland in Madre de Dios, Peru, to test whether CH4 emissions and pore water concentrations varied with vegetation community, soil chemistry and proximity to groundwater sources. We found that the open-canopy herbaceous zone emitted roughly one-third as much CH4 as the Mauritia flexuosa palm-dominated areas (4.7 \xc2\xb1 0.9 and 14.0 \xc2\xb1 2.4 mg CH4 m-2 h-1, respectively). Emissions decreased with distance from groundwater discharge across the three sampling sites, and tracked changes in soil carbon chemistry, especially increased soil phenolics. Based on all available data, we calculate that neotropical peatlands contribute emissions of 43 \xc2\xb1 11.9 Tg CH4 y-1, however this estimate is subject to geographic bias and will need revision once additional studies are published. labels: #Methane#Tropical Climate#Wetlands'
b'The polled phenotype of cattle is increasingly becoming favourable mainly because of the enhanced emphasis on animal welfare, for which the causative mutations have been reported during the past years. The Shuxuan cattle are a new synthetic breed by crossing the indigenous cattle with both Simmental and Holstein semen in Sichuan of Southwest China, in which about 15% of polled individuals have newly emerged. Because official record about POLLED genotypes for the historically imported sires is unavailable, we therefore genotyped the proposed POLLED variants of P202ID, P80kbID and P219ID among 48 polled and 16 horned Shuxuan cattle. It was first revealed that all three candidate mutations have been simultaneously introgressed into Shuxuan cattle, whereas the P202ID mutation is dominant. Furthermore, one polled animal still remains to carry none of the three candidate mutations, which suggests that further mutation(s) would also exist. Additionally, we sequenced mitochondrial DNA and found that Shuxuan cattle are composed of two matrilineal origins of Bos taurus (65.6%) and B. indicus (34.4%); and there is no origin-biased distribution of polled phenotype. In conclusion, our study first supports the recently reported novel candidate mutation of P219ID and detects simultaneous presences of all three known POLLED mutations within a cattle breed. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#Cattle#China#Mutation'
b'Gene flow dynamics of common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) is affected by several human activities in Central Europe, including habitat fragmentation, agroforestry expansion, controlled and uncontrolled transfer of reproductive material, and a recently introduced emerging infectious disease, ash dieback, caused by Hymenoscyphus fraxineus. Habitat fragmentation may alter genetic connectivity and effective population size, leading to loss of genetic diversity and increased inbreeding in ash populations. Gene flow from cultivated trees in landscapes close to their native counterparts may also influence the adaptability of future generations. The devastating effects of ash dieback have already been observed in both natural and managed populations in continental Europe. However, potential long-term effects of genetic bottlenecks depend on gene flow across fragmented landscapes. For this reason, we studied the genetic connectivity of ash trees in an isolated forest patch of a fragmented landscape in R\xc3\xb6senbeck, Germany. We applied two approaches to parentage analysis to estimate gene flow patterns at the study site. We specifically investigated the presence of background pollination at the landscape level and the degree of genetic isolation between native and cultivated trees. Local meteorological data was utilized to understand the effect of wind on the pollen and seed dispersal patterns. Gender information of the adult trees was considered for calculating the dispersal distances. We found that the majority of the studied seeds (55-64%) and seedlings (75-98%) in the forest patch were fathered and mothered by the trees within the same patch. However, we determined a considerable amount of pollen flow (26-45%) from outside of the study site, representing background pollination at the landscape level. Limited pollen flow was observed from neighbouring cultivated trees (2%). Both pollen and seeds were dispersed in all directions in accordance with the local wind directions. Whereas there was no positive correlation between pollen dispersal distance and wind speed, the correlation between seed dispersal distance and wind speed was significant (0.71, p<0.001), indicating that strong wind favours long-distance dispersal of ash seeds. Finally, we discussed the implications of establishing gene conservation stands and the use of enrichment planting in the face of ash dieback. labels: #DNA, Plant#Ecosystem#Fraxinus#Gene Flow#Genes, Plant#Microsatellite Repeats#Pollen#Pollination#Wind'
b'IMPORTANCE: Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterised by a constellation of symptoms diagnosed with a number of different polythetic criteria. Heterogeneity across these diagnostic criteria is likely to be confounding research into the as-yet-unknown pathophysiology underlying this stigmatised and debilitating condition and may diagnose a disease spectrum with significant implications for clinical management. No studies to date have objectively investigated this possibility using a validated measure of CFS symptoms-the DePaul Symptom Questionnaire (DSQ).OBJECTIVE: To examine whether current CFS diagnostic criteria are identifying different disease phenotypes using the DSQ.DESIGN: Case control study.SETTING: Clinical Research Facility of the Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.PARTICIPANTS: 49 CFS subjects and ten matched, sedentary community controls, excluded for co-morbid depression.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Self-reported autonomic and cognitive features were assessed with the Composite Autonomic Symptom Score (COMPASS) and Cognitive Failures Questionnaire (COGFAIL) respectively. Objective autonomic cardiovascular parameters were examined using the Task Force\xc2\xae Monitor and a battery of neuropsychological tests administered for objective cognitive assessment.RESULTS: Self-reported autonomic and cognitive symptoms were significantly greater in CFS subjects compared to controls. There were no statistically significant differences in objective autonomic measures between CFS and controls. There were clinically significant differences between DSQ subgroups on objective autonomic testing. Visuospatial memory, verbal memory and psychomotor speed were significantly different between DSQ subgroups.CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The finding of no significant differences in objective autonomic testing between CFS and control subjects may reflect the inclusion of sedentary controls or exclusion for co-morbid depression. Consistent exclusion criteria would enable better delineation of these two conditions and their presenting symptoms. Findings across CFS subgroups suggest subjects have a different disease burden on subjective and objective measures of function, autonomic parameters and cognitive impairment when categorised using the DSQ. Different CFS criteria may at best be diagnosing a spectrum of disease severities and at worst different CFS phenotypes or even different diseases. This complicates research and disease management and may contribute to the significant stigma associated with the condition. labels: #Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"Heat stress is one of the most detrimental confrontations in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, causing considerable economic losses in poultry production. Propolis, a resinous product of worker honeybees, possesses several biological activities that could be used to alleviate the deleterious effects of high environmental temperature on poultry production. The current study was aimed at evaluating the effects of propolis supplementation to Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) diets on the production performance, intestinal histomorphology, relative physiological and immunological parameters, and selected gene expression under heat stress conditions. Three hundred one-day-old Japanese quail chicks were randomly distributed into 20 wired-cages. At 28 d of age, the birds were divided into 2 temperature treatment groups; a normal at 24\xc2\xb0C (C group) and a heat stress at 35\xc2\xb0C (HS group). The birds in each group were further assigned to 2 subgroups; one of them was fed on a basal diet without propolis supplementation (-Pr subgroup) while the other was supplemented with propolis (+Pr subgroup). Production performance including body weight gain, feed intake and feed conversion ratio were measured. The intestinal histomorphological measurements were also performed for all treatment groups. Relative physiological parameters including body temperature, corticosterone hormone level, malondialdehyde (MDA) and free triiodothyronine hormone (fT3), as well as the relative immunological parameters including the total white blood cells count (TWBC's), heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio and lymphocyte proliferation index, were also measured. Furthermore, the mRNA expression for toll like receptor 5 (TLR5), cysteine-aspartic protease-6 (CASP6) and heat shock proteins 70 and 90 (Hsp70 and Hsp90) genes was quantified in this study. The quail production performance was significantly (P<0.05) impaired by HS treatment, while Pr treatment significantly improved the quail production performance. The villus width and area were significantly (P<0.05) lower in the HS compared to the C group, while Pr treatment significantly increased crypts depth of quail. A negative impact of HS treatment was observed on the physiological status of quail; however, propolis significantly alleviated this negative effect. Moreover, quail of the HS group expressed lower immunological parameters than C group, while propolis enhanced the immune status of the quail. The relative mRNA expression of TLR5 gene was down-regulated by HS treatment while it was up-regulated by the Pr treatment. Furthermore, the positive effects of propolis in HS-quail were evidenced by normalizing the high expressions of CASP6 and Hsp70 genes when compared to the C group. Based on these results, the addition of propolis to quail diets as a potential nutritional strategy in order to improve their performance, especially under heat stress conditions, is recommended. labels: #Animals#Coturnix#Heat Stress Disorders#Propolis"
b'We explored the utility of neural stem cells (NSCs) as an in vitro model for evaluating preclinical therapeutics in succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase-deficient (SSADHD) mice. NSCs were obtained from aldh5a1+/+ and aldh5a1-/- mice (aldh5a1 = aldehyde dehydrogenase 5a1 = SSADH). Multiple parameters were evaluated including: (1) production of GHB (\xce\xb3-hydroxybutyrate), the biochemical hallmark of SSADHD; (2) rescue from cell death with the dual mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin) inhibitor, XL-765, an agent previously shown to rescue aldh5a1-/- mice from premature lethality; (3) mitochondrial number, total reactive oxygen species, and mitochondrial superoxide production, all previously documented as abnormal in aldh5a1-/- mice; (4) total ATP levels and ATP consumption; and (5) selected gene expression profiles associated with epilepsy, a prominent feature in both experimental and human SSADHD. Patterns of dysfunction were observed in all of these parameters and mirrored earlier findings in aldh5a1-/- mice. Patterns of dysregulated gene expression between hypothalamus and NSCs centered on ion channels, GABAergic receptors, and inflammation, suggesting novel pathomechanisms as well as a developmental ontogeny for gene expression potentially associated with the murine epileptic phenotype. The NSC model of SSADHD will be valuable in providing a first-tier screen for centrally-acting therapeutics and prioritizing therapeutic concepts of preclinical animal studies applicable to SSADHD. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Amino Acid Metabolism, Inborn Errors#Animals#Brain#Culture Media#Developmental Disabilities#Disease Models, Animal#Epilepsy#In Vitro Techniques#Mice#Neural Stem Cells#Oxidative Stress#Succinate-Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase'
b'Across scientific disciplines, thresholded pairwise measures of statistical dependence between time series are taken as proxies for the interactions between the dynamical units of a network. Yet such correlation measures often fail to reflect the underlying physical interactions accurately. Here we systematically study the problem of reconstructing direct physical interaction networks from thresholding correlations. We explicate how local common cause and relay structures, heterogeneous in-degrees and non-local structural properties of the network generally hinder reconstructibility. However, in the limit of weak coupling strengths we prove that stationary systems with dynamics close to a given operating point transition to universal reconstructiblity across all network topologies. labels: #Algorithms#Computer Simulation#Models, Neurological#Nonlinear Dynamics'
b'Highly structured RNA derived from viral genomes is a key cellular indicator of viral infection. In response, cells produce the interferon inducible RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) that, when bound to viral dsRNA, phosphorylates eukaryotic initiation factor 2\xce\xb1 and attenuates viral protein translation. Adenovirus can evade this line of defence through transcription of a non-coding RNA, VAI, an inhibitor of PKR. VAI consists of three base-paired regions that meet at a three-way junction; an apical stem responsible for the interaction with PKR, a central stem required for inhibition, and a terminal stem. Recent studies have highlighted the potential importance of the tertiary structure of the three-way junction to PKR inhibition by enabling interaction between regions of the central and terminal stems. To further investigate the role of the three-way junction, we characterized the binding affinity and inhibitory potential of central stem mutants designed to introduce subtle alterations. These results were then correlated with small-angle X-ray scattering solution studies and computational tertiary structural models. Our results demonstrate that while mutations to the central stem have no observable effect on binding affinity to PKR, mutations that appear to disrupt the structure of the three-way junction prevent inhibition of PKR. Therefore, we propose that instead of simply sequestering PKR, a specific structural conformation of the PKR-VAI complex may be required for inhibition. labels: #Mutation#RNA, Viral#Scattering, Radiation#Transcription, Genetic#eIF-2 Kinase'
b'The Late Pleistocene Shanidar 1 older adult male Neandertal is known for the crushing fracture of his left orbit with a probable reduction in vision, the loss of his right forearm and hand, and evidence of an abnormal gait, as well as probable diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. He also exhibits advanced external auditory exostoses in his left auditory meatus and larger ones with complete bridging across the porus in the right meatus (both Grade 3). These growths indicate at least unilateral conductive hearing (CHL) loss, a serious sensory deprivation for a Pleistocene hunter-gatherer. This condition joins the meatal atresia of the Middle Pleistocene Atapuerca-SH Cr.4 in providing evidence of survival with conductive hearing loss (and hence serious sensory deprivation) among these Pleistocene humans. The presence of CHL in these fossils thereby reinforces the paleobiological and archeological evidence for supporting social matrices among these Pleistocene foraging peoples. labels: #Animals#Ear, External#Exostoses#Fossils#Hearing Loss, Conductive#Hominidae#Neanderthals'
b'Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a lipid and protein phosphatase that antagonizes signaling by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT signaling pathway. The PTEN gene is a major tumor suppressor, with mutations of this gene occurring frequently in tumors of humans and mice. We have now developed mutant medaka deficient in PTEN with the use of transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALEN) technology. Medaka possesses two pten genes, ptena and ptenb, similar to zebrafish. We established 16 ptena mutant lines and two ptenb mutant lines. Homozygous single pten mutants were found to be viable and fertile. In contrast, pten double-knockout (dko) embryos manifested severe abnormalities in vasculogenesis, eye size, and tail development at 72 hours post fertilization(hpf) and died before hatching. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the ratio of phosphorylated to total forms of AKT (pAKT/AKT) in pten dko embryos was four times that in wild-type embryos, indicative of up-regulation of signaling by the PI3K-AKT pathway. Treatment of pten dko embryos with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 reduced the pAKT/AKT ratio by about one-half and partially rescued the defect in vasculogenesis. Additional inhibitors of the PI3K-AKT pathway, including rapamycin and N-\xce\xb1-tosyl-L-phenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone, also partially restored vasculogenesis in the dko embryos. Our model system thus allows pten dko embryos to be readily distinguished from wild-type embryos at an early stage of development and is suitable for the screening of drugs able to compensate for PTEN deficiency. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Oryzias#PTEN Phosphohydrolase#Transcription Activator-Like Effector Nucleases'
b'The transcription factor NR4A1 has emerged as a pivotal regulator of the inflammatory response and immune homeostasis. Although contribution of NR4A1 in the innate immune response has been demonstrated, its role in host defense against viral infection remains to be investigated. In the present study, we show that administration of cytosporone B (Csn-B), a specific agonist of NR4A1, to mice infected with influenza virus (IAV) reduces lung viral loads and improves pulmonary function. Our results demonstrate that administration of Csn-B to naive mice leads to a modest production of type 1 IFN. However, in IAV-infected mice, such production of IFNs is markedly increased following treatment with Csn-B. Our study also reveals that alveolar macrophages (AMs) appear to have a significant role in Csn-B effects, since selective depletion of AMs with clodronate liposome correlates with a marked reduction of IFN production, viral clearance and morbidity in IAV-infected mice. Furthermore, when reemergence of AMs is observed following clodronate liposome administration, an increased production of IFNs was detected in bronchoalveolar fluids of IAV-infected mice treated with Csn-B, supporting the contribution of AMs in Csn-B effects. While treatment of mice with Csn-B induces phosphorylation of transcriptional factors IRF3 and IRF7, the latter appears to be less indispensable since effects of Csn-B treatment on the synthesis of IFNs were slightly affected in IAV-infected mice lacking functional IRF7. Together, our results highlight the capacity of Csn-B and consequently of NR4A1 transcription factor in controlling IAV infection. labels: #Animals#Female#Humans#Influenza, Human#Interferon Type I#Lung#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4, Group A, Member 1#Phenylacetates#Respiratory Function Tests#Viral Load'
b'Gibberellin wastewater cannot be directly discharged without treatment due to its high concentrations of sulfate and organic compounds and strong acidity. Therefore, multi-stage anaerobic bioreactor + micro-aerobic+ anoxic/aeration (A/O) + biological contact oxidation combined processes are used to treat gibberellin wastewater. However, knowledge of the treatment effects of the A/O process and bacterial community structure in the aeration tank reactors of such systems is sparse. Therefore, this study was conducted to investigate the treatment effects and operation of the A/O process on gibberellin wastewater, as well as changes in the bacterial community structure of activated sludge in the aeration tank during treatment. Moreover, removal was examined based on evaluation of effluent after A/O treatment. Although influent chemical oxygen demand (COD), NH3-N and total phosphorus (TP) fluctuated, effluent COD, NH3-N and TP remained stable. Moreover, average COD, NH3-N and TP removal efficiency were 68.41%, 93.67% and 45.82%, respectively, during the A/O process. At the phylum level, Proteobacteria was the dominant phylum in all samples, followed by Chloroflexi, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria. Proteobacteria played an important role in the removal of organic matter. Chloroflexi was found to be responsible for the degradation of carbohydrates and Bacteroidetes also had been found to be responsible for the degradation of complex organic matters. Actinobacteria are able to degrade a variety of environmental chemicals. Additionally, Anaerolineaceae_uncultured was the major genus in samples collected on May 25, 2015, while Novosphingobium and Nitrospira were dominant in most samples. Nitrosomonas are regarded as the dominant ammonia-oxidizing bacteria, while Nitrospira are the main nitrite-oxidizing bacteria. Bacterial community structure varied considerably with time, and a partial Mantel test showed a highly significant positive correlation between bacterial community structure and DO. The bacterial community structure was also positively correlated with temperature and SO42-. labels: #Bacteria#Bioreactors#Gibberellins#Oxygen#Waste Water#Water Microbiology'
b"Boswellia sacra, a frankincense producing endemic tree, has been well known for its cultural, religious and economic values. However, the tree has been least explored for the associated microsymbiota in the rhizosphere. The current study elucidates the fungal and bacterial communities of the rhizospheric regions of the wild and cultivated B. sacra tree populations through next generation sequencing. The sequence analysis showed the existence of 1006\xc2\xb18.9 and 60.6\xc2\xb13.1 operational taxonomic unit (OTUs) for bacterial and fungal communities respectively. In fungal communities, five major phyla were found with significantly higher abundance of Ascomycota (60.3%) in wild population and Basidiomycota (52%) in cultivated tree rhizospheres. Among bacterial communities, 31 major phyla were found, with significant distribution of Actinobacteria in wild tree rhizospheres, whereas Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria were highly abundant in cultivated trees. The diversity and abundance of microbiome varied significantly depending upon soil characteristics of the three different populations. In addition, significantly higher glucosidases, cellulases and indole-3-acetic acid were found in cultivated tree's rhizospheres as compared to wild tree populations. for these plants to survive the harsh arid-land environmental conditions. The current study is a first comprehensive work and advances our knowledge about the core fungal and bacterial microbial microbiome associated with this economically important tree. labels: #Bacteria#Boswellia#Frankincense#Fungi#Rhizosphere"
b'Ex vivo 2-photon fluorescence microscopy (2PFM) with optical clearing enables vascular imaging deep into tissue. However, optical clearing may also produce spherical aberrations if the objective lens is not index-matched to the clearing material, while the perfusion, clearing, and fixation procedure may alter vascular morphology. We compared in vivo and ex vivo 2PFM in mice, focusing on apparent differences in microvascular signal and morphology. Following in vivo imaging, the mice (four total) were perfused with a fluorescent gel and their brains fructose-cleared. The brain regions imaged in vivo were imaged ex vivo. Vessels were segmented in both images using an automated tracing algorithm that accounts for the spatially varying PSF in the ex vivo images. This spatial variance is induced by spherical aberrations caused by imaging fructose-cleared tissue with a water-immersion objective. Alignment of the ex vivo image to the in vivo image through a non-linear warping algorithm enabled comparison of apparent vessel diameter, as well as differences in signal. Shrinkage varied as a function of diameter, with capillaries rendered smaller ex vivo by 13%, while penetrating vessels shrunk by 34%. The pial vasculature attenuated in vivo microvascular signal by 40% 300 \xce\xbcm below the tissue surface, but this effect was absent ex vivo. On the whole, ex vivo imaging was found to be valuable for studying deep cortical vasculature. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Brain#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Mice'
b'The harbour porpoise is the only cetacean species native to German waters. Since human pressures are suggested to shorten their reproductive lifespan, basic knowledge on reproduction is strongly required. One parameter is the onset of sexual maturity in female harbour porpoises. Therefore, we investigated the first signs of sexual maturity for a period of almost two decades (1990-2016). Ovaries from 111 female harbour porpoises from the German North Sea and Baltic Sea were examined for the presence and morphological structure of follicles, corpora lutea and corpora albicantia. Based on the ovarian characteristics we performed the first model-based estimation of age at sexual maturity for harbour porpoises from German waters. Additionally, we produced a demographical age structure based on all female strandings and bycatches from German coasts. Our results showed that corpora lutea and corpora albicantia as signs of former ovulation could be found in individuals at an age of 4.95 (\xc2\xb1 0.6) years. No significant differences between specimens from the North Sea and Baltic Sea were detected. However, the average age at death differed significantly with 5.70 (\xc2\xb1 0.27) years for North Sea animals and 3.67 (\xc2\xb1 0.30) years for those in the Baltic Sea. Growing evidence exists that the shortened lifespan of Baltic Sea harbour porpoises is linked to an anthropogenically influenced environment with rising bycatch mortalities due to local gillnet fisheries. Thus, our findings support the idea of local management plans based on a model-based detection of age at sexual maturity and considering the anthropogenic impacts on the population for effective protection of harbour porpoises and the North Sea and Baltic Sea. labels: #Animals#Baltic States#Female#North Sea#Phocoena#Reproduction'
b'OBJECTIVES: Odontogenic tumors (OT) represent a specific pathological category that includes some lesions with unpredictable biological behavior. Although most of these lesions are benign, some, such as the ameloblastoma, exhibit local aggressiveness and high recurrence rates. The most common types of ameloblastoma are the solid/multicystic (SA) and the unicystic ameloblastoma (UA); the latter considered a much less aggressive entity as compared to the SA. The microRNA system regulates the expression of many human genes while its deregulation has been associated with neoplastic development. The aim of the current study was to determine the expression profiles of microRNAs present in the two most common types of ameloblastomas.MATERIAL & METHODS: MicroRNA expression profiles were assessed using TaqMan\xc2\xae Low Density Arrays (TLDAs) in 24 samples (8 SA, 8 UA and 8 control samples). The findings were validated using quantitative RTqPCR in an independent cohort of 19 SA, 8 UA and 19 dentigerous cysts as controls.RESULTS: We identified 40 microRNAs differentially regulated in ameloblastomas, which are related to neoplastic development and differentiation, and with the osteogenic process. Further validation of the top ranked microRNAs revealed significant differences in the expression of 6 of them in relation to UA, 7 in relation to SA and 1 (miR-489) that was related to both types.CONCLUSION: We identified a new microRNA signature for the ameloblastoma and for its main types, which may be useful to better understand the etiopathogenesis of this neoplasm. In addition, we identified a microRNA (miR-489) that is suggestive of differentiating among solid from unicystic ameloblastoma. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Ameloblastoma#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Jaw Neoplasms#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'Vitis vinifera cv. Koshu is an indigenous grape cultivar that has been cultivated for more than a thousand years in Japan and one of the most important cultivars in white winemaking. To improve Koshu wine quality, it is necessary to identify the metabolites in Koshu berry. We conducted a comprehensive and comparative lipidome analysis of Koshu and Pinot Noir berries cultivated in the same location in Japan using GC-MS/MS for fatty acids and LC-MS for glycerolipids and glycerophospholipids. Koshu skins and juices contained 22 and 19 fatty acids, respectively, whereas 23 and 20 fatty acids were detected in Pinot Noir skins and juices. C22:6n3 and C24:0 contents in Koshu skins were two and three times higher than those in Pinot Noir skins. C24:0 content in Koshu juices was also higher than that in Pinot Noir juices. Forty-nine lipid components (six digalactosyldiacylglycerols, one monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, 10 phosphatidylcholines, 12 phosphatidylethanolamines, and 20 triglycerides) were detected in Pinot Noir and Koshu skins. Strong peaks were observed for MGDG 36:6, DGDG 36:6, PC 34:2, PC 36:5, TG 54:6, TG 54:7, and TG 54:8 in Koshu skins. The contents of 36 of the 49 lipid components were significantly higher in Pinot Noir skins than Koshu skins. Pinot Noir skins contained more lipids whose alkyl chains have more than 18 carbons than Koshu skins. Further analysis of both lipid profiles revealed that the number of double bonds in a fatty acid molecule in Pinot Noir skins and juices was significantly larger than that in Koshu skins and juices. A strong relationship exists between the heat requirement of grapevine cultivars and the level of fatty acid desaturation. C18-fatty acids were the major components in Koshu and Pinot Noir berries. The expression levels of C18-fatty acid desaturases regulated the accumulation of C18-unsaturated fatty acids in berry skins. The loss of C18:3 in Koshu berries at the end of ripening was observed. Koshu might effectively convert C18:3 into (Z)-hex-3-enal for the production of C6-aroma compounds. These findings by the lipidome analysis are expected to contribute to the improvement of Koshu wine aroma and breeding strategies of cold-tolerant Koshu grapevines. labels: #Fatty Acids#Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry#Lipid Metabolism#Reproducibility of Results#Species Specificity#Tandem Mass Spectrometry#Vitis'
b'BACKGROUND: Mortality rates in females who survived acute myocardial infarction (AMI) exceed those in males. Differences between sexes in age, cardiovascular risk factors and revascularization therapy have been proposed as possible reasons.OBJECTIVE: To select sets of female and male patients comparable in respect of relevant risk factors in order to compare the sex-specific risk in a systematic manner.METHODS: Data of the ISAR-RISK and ART studies were investigated. Patients were enrolled between 1996 and 2005 and suffered from AMI within 4 weeks prior to enrolment. Patients of each sex were selected with 1:1 equivalent age, previous AMI history, sinus-rhythm presence, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking status, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and revascularization therapy. Survival times were compared between sex groups in the whole study cohort and in the matched cohort.RESULTS: Of 3840 consecutive AMI survivors, 994 (25.9%) were females and 2846 (74.1%) were males. Females were older and suffered more frequently from hypertension and diabetes mellitus. In the whole cohort, females showed an increased mortality with a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.54 compared to males (p<0.0001). The matched cohort comprised 802 patients of each sex and revealed a trend towards poorer survival in females (HR for female sex 1.14; p = 0.359). However, significant mortality differences with a higher risk in matched females was observed during the first year after AMI (HR = 1.61; p = 0.045) but not during the subsequent years.CONCLUSION: Matched sub-groups of post-AMI patients showed a comparable long-term mortality. However, a female excess mortality remained during first year after AMI and cannot be explained by differences in age, cardiovascular risk factors, and modes of acute treatment. Other causal factors, including clinical as well as psychological and social aspects, need to be considered. Female post-AMI patients should be followed more actively particularly during the first year after AMI. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Prospective Studies#Sex Factors'
b'The natural variant C491T (rs1800088) in ADRB2 gene substitutes Threonine to Isoleucine at 164th position in \xce\xb22AR and results in receptor sequestration and altered binding of agonists. Present investigation pursues to identify the effect of T164I variation on function and structure of \xce\xb22AR through systematic computational approaches. The study, in addition, addresses altered binding of salbutamol in T164I variant through molecular dynamic simulations. Methods involving changes in free energy, solvent accessibility surface area, root mean square deviations and analysis of binding cavity revealed structural perturbations in receptor to incur upon T164I substitution. For comprehensive understanding of receptor upon substitution, OPLS force field aided molecular dynamic simulations were performed for 10 ns. Simulations revealed massive structural departure for T164I \xce\xb22AR variant from the native state along with considerably higher root mean square fluctuations of residues near the cavity. Affinity prediction by molecular docking showed two folds reduced affinity of salbutamol in T164I variant. To validate the credibility docking results, simulations for ligand-receptor complex were performed which demonstrated unstable salbutamol-T164I \xce\xb22AR complex formation. Further, analysis of interactions in course of simulations revealed reduced ligand-receptor interactions of salbutamol in T164I variant. Taken together, studies herein provide structural rationales for suboptimal binding of salbutamol in T164I variant through integrated molecular modeling approaches. labels: #Adrenergic beta-2 Receptor Agonists#Albuterol#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Protein Binding#Receptors, Adrenergic, beta-2'
b'Purpose: Retinal ganglion cells (RGC) can be categorized into roughly 30 distinct subtypes. How these subtypes develop is poorly understood, in part because few unique subtype markers have been characterized. We tested whether the Prdm16 transcription factor is expressed by RGCs as a class or within particular ganglion cell subtypes.Methods: Embryonic and mature retinal sections and flatmount preparations were examined by immunohistochemistry for Prdm16 and several other cell type-specific markers. To visualize the morphology of Prdm16+ cells, we utilized Thy1-YFP-H transgenic mice, where a small random population of RGCs expresses yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) throughout the cytoplasm.Results: Prdm16 was expressed in the retina starting late in embryogenesis. Prdm16+ cells coexpressed the RGC marker Brn3a. These cells were arranged in an evenly spaced pattern and accounted for 2% of all ganglion cells. Prdm16+ cells coexpressed parvalbumin, but not calretinin, melanopsin, Smi32, or CART. This combination of marker expression and morphology data from Thy1-YFP-H mice suggested that the Prdm16+ cells represented a single ganglion cell subtype. Prdm16 also marked vascular endothelial cells and mural cells of retinal arterioles.Conclusions: A single subtype of ganglion cell appears to be uniquely marked by Prdm16 expression. While the precise identity of these ganglion cells is unclear, they most resemble the G9 subtype described by V\xc3\xb6lgyi and colleagues in 2009. Future studies are needed to determine the function of these ganglion cells and whether Prdm16 regulates their development. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Biomarkers#DNA-Binding Proteins#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Luminescent Proteins#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Parvalbumins#Retina#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Transcription Factor Brn-3A#Transcription Factors'
b'Purpose: AMD is the leading cause of human vision loss after 65 years of age. Several mechanisms have been proposed: (1) age-related failure of the choroidal vasculature leads to loss of RPE; (2) RPE dysfunctions due to accumulation of phagocytized, but unreleased A2E (N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine); (3) zinc deficiency activation of calpain and caspase proteases, leading to cell death. The purpose of the present study is to compare activation of calpain and caspase in monkey RPE cells cultured under hypoxia or with A2E.Methods: Monkey primary RPE cells were cultured under hypoxic conditions in a Gaspak pouch or cultured with synthetic A2E. Immunoblotting was used to detect activation of calpain and caspase. Calpain inhibitor, SNJ-1945, and pan-caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk, were used to confirm activation of the proteases.Results: (1) Hypoxia and A2E each decreased viability of RPE cells in a time-dependent manner. (2) Incubation under hypoxia alone induced activation of calpain, but not caspases. SNJ-1945 inhibited calpain activation, but z-VAD-fmk did not. (3) Incubation with A2E alone induced activation of calpain, caspase-9, and caspase-3. SNJ-1945 inhibited calpain activation. z-VAD-fmk inhibited caspase activation, suggesting no interaction between calpain and caspases.Conclusions: Hypoxia activated the calpain pathway, while A2E activated both calpain and caspase pathways in monkey RPE cells. Such knowledge may be utilized in the treatment of AMD if inhibitor drugs against calpain and/or caspase are used to prevent RPE dysfunction caused by hypoxia or A2E. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Calpain#Caspase Inhibitors#Caspases#Cell Hypoxia#Cell Survival#Cells, Cultured#Enzyme Inhibitors#Immunoblotting#Macaca mulatta#Microscopy, Phase-Contrast#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Retinoids'
b'Background: Inappropriate prescribing is a well-known clinical problem in nursing home residents, but few interventions have focused on reducing inappropriate medication use.Objective: To examine successful discontinuation of inappropriate medication use and to improve prescribing in nursing home residents.Design: Pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial, with clustering by elder care physicians and their wards. (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01876095).Setting: 59 Dutch nursing home wards for long-term care.Patients: Residents with a life expectancy greater than 4 weeks who consented to treatment with medication.Intervention: Multidisciplinary Multistep Medication Review (3MR) consisting of an assessment of the patient perspective, medical history, critical appraisal of medications, a meeting between the treating elder care physician and the pharmacist, and implementation of medication changes.Measurements: Successful discontinuation of use of at least 1 inappropriate drug (that is, without relapse or severe withdrawal symptoms) and clinical outcomes (neuropsychiatric symptoms, cognitive function, and quality of life) after 4 months of follow-up.Results: Nineteen elder care physicians (33 wards) performed the 3MR, and 16 elder care physicians (26 wards) followed standard procedures. A total of 426 nursing home residents (233 in the intervention group and 193 in the control group) were followed for an average of 144 days (SD, 21). In an analysis of all participants, use of at least 1 inappropriate medication was successfully discontinued for 91 (39.1%) residents in the intervention group versus 57 (29.5%) in the control group (adjusted relative risk, 1.37 [95% CI, 1.02 to 1.75]). Clinical outcomes did not deteriorate between baseline and follow-up.Limitations: The 3MR was done only once. Some withdrawal symptoms or relapses may have been missed.Conclusion: The 3MR is effective in discontinuing inappropriate medication use in frail nursing home residents without a decline in their well-being.Primary Funding Source: Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development. labels: #Aged#Drug Utilization Review#Follow-Up Studies#Homes for the Aged#Humans#Inappropriate Prescribing#Nursing Homes#Polypharmacy#Quality of Life'
b"Importance: Dissatisfaction with medical malpractice litigation has stimulated interest by health care organizations in developing alternatives to meet patients' needs after medical injury. In communication-and-resolution programs (CRPs), hospitals and liability insurers communicate with patients about adverse events, use investigation findings to improve patient safety, and offer compensation when substandard care caused harm. Despite increasing interest in this approach, little is known about patients' and family members' experiences with CRPs.Objective: To explore the experiences of patients and family members with medical injuries and CRPs to understand different aspects of institutional responses to injury that promoted and impeded reconciliation.Design, Setting, and Participants: From January 6 through June 30, 2016, semistructured interviews were conducted with patients (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8927), family members (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893), and staff (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910) at 3 US hospitals that operate CRPs. Patients and families were eligible for participation if they experienced a CRP, spoke English, and could no longer file a malpractice claim because they had accepted a settlement or the statute of limitations had expired. The CRP administrators identified hospital and insurer staff who had been involved in a CRP event and had a close relationship with the injured patient and/or family. They identified patients and families by applying the inclusion criteria to their CRP databases. Of 66 possible participants, 40 interviews (61%) were completed, including 30 of 50 invited patients and families (60%) and 10 of 16 invited staff (63%).Main Outcomes and Measures: Patients' reported satisfaction with disclosure and reconciliation efforts made by hospitals.Results: A total of 40 participants completed interviews (15 men and 25 women; mean [range] age, 46 [18-67]years). Among the 30 patients and family members interviewed, 27 patients experienced injuries attributed to error and received compensation. The CRP experience was positive overall for 18 of the 30 patients and family members, and 18 patients continued to receive care at the hospital. Satisfaction was highest when communications were empathetic and nonadversarial, including compensation negotiations. Patients and families expressed a strong need to be heard and expected the attending physician to listen without interrupting during conversations about the event. Thirty-five of the 40 respondents believed that including plaintiffs' attorneys in these discussions was helpful. Sixteen of the 30 patients and family members deemed their compensation to be adequate but 17 reported that the offer was not sufficiently proactive. Patients and families strongly desired to know what the hospital did to prevent recurrences of the event, but 24 of 30 reported receiving no information about safety improvement efforts.Conclusions and Relevance: As hospitals strive to provide more patient-centered care, opportunities exist to improve institutional responses to injuries and promote reconciliation. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Communication#Compensation and Redress#Family#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Iatrogenic Disease#Interviews as Topic#Male#Middle Aged#Negotiating#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Patient-Centered Care#Patients#Risk Management#United States"
b'Background: Primary aldosteronism is recognized as a severe form of renin-independent aldosteronism that results in excessive mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) activation.Objective: To investigate whether a spectrum of subclinical renin-independent aldosteronism that increases risk for hypertension exists among normotensive persons.Design: Cohort study.Setting: National community-based study.Participants: 850 untreated normotensive participants in MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis) with measurements of serum aldosterone and plasma renin activity (PRA).Measurements: Longitudinal analyses investigated whether aldosterone concentrations, in the context of physiologic PRA phenotypes (suppressed, \xe2\x89\xa40.50 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour; indeterminate, 0.51 to 0.99 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour; unsuppressed, \xe2\x89\xa51.0 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour), were associated with incident hypertension (defined as systolic blood pressure \xe2\x89\xa5140 mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure \xe2\x89\xa590 mm Hg, or initiation of antihypertensive medications). Cross-sectional analyses investigated associations between aldosterone and MR activity, assessed via serum potassium and urinary fractional excretion of potassium.Results: A suppressed renin phenotype was associated with a higher rate of incident hypertension than other PRA phenotypes (incidence rates per 1000 person-years of follow-up: suppressed renin phenotype, 85.4 events [95% CI, 73.4 to 99.3 events]; indeterminate renin phenotype, 53.3 events [CI, 42.8 to 66.4 events]; unsuppressed renin phenotype, 54.5 events [CI, 41.8 to 71.0 events]). With renin suppression, higher aldosterone concentrations were independently associated with an increased risk for incident hypertension, whereas no association between aldosterone and hypertension was seen when renin was not suppressed. Higher aldosterone concentrations were associated with lower serum potassium and higher urinary excretion of potassium, but only when renin was suppressed.Limitation: Sodium and potassium were measured several years before renin and aldosterone.Conclusion: Suppression of renin and higher aldosterone concentrations in the context of this renin suppression are associated with an increased risk for hypertension and possibly also with increased MR activity. These findings suggest a clinically relevant spectrum of subclinical primary aldosteronism (renin-independent aldosteronism) in normotension.Primary Funding Source: National Institutes of Health. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aldosterone#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Hyperaldosteronism#Hypertension#Incidence#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Potassium#Receptors, Mineralocorticoid#Renin#Risk Factors'
b'Saccadic adaptation is an oculomotor learning process that maintains the accuracy of eye movements to ensure effective perception of the environment. Although saccadic adaptation is commonly considered an automatic and low-level motor calibration in the cerebellum, we recently found that strength of adaptation is influenced by the visual content of the target: pictures of humans produced stronger adaptation than noise stimuli. This suggests that meaningful images may be considered rewarding or valuable in oculomotor learning. Here we report three experiments that establish the boundaries of this effect. In the first, we tested whether stimuli that were associated with high and low value following long term self-administered reinforcement learning produce stronger adaptation. Twenty-eight expert gamers participated in two sessions of adaptation to game-related high- and low-reward stimuli, but revealed no difference in saccadic adaptation (Bayes Factor01 = 5.49). In the second experiment, we tested whether cognitive (literate) meaning could induce stronger adaptation by comparing targets consisting of words and nonwords. The results of twenty subjects revealed no difference in adaptation strength (Bayes Factor01 = 3.21). The third experiment compared images of human figures to noise patterns for reactive saccades. Twenty-two subjects adapted significantly more toward images of human figures in comparison to noise (p<0.001). We conclude that only primary (human vs. noise), but not secondary, reinforcement affects saccadic adaptation (words vs. nonwords, high- vs. low-value video game images). labels: #Adaptation, Ocular#Adaptation, Physiological#Eye Movements#Female#Humans#Learning#Male#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Accurate measurement of adherence is necessary to ensure that therapeutic outcomes can be attributed to the recommended treatment. Phone-based unannounced pill counts were shown to be feasible and reliable measures of adherence in developed settings; and have been further used as part of medication adherence interventions. However, it is not clear whether this method can be implemented successfully in resource-limited settings, where cellular network and mobile phone coverage may be low. Our objective is to describe operational issues surrounding the use of phone-based unannounced pill counts in Lesotho and Ethiopia.METHODS: Phone-based monthly unannounced pill counts, using an adaptation of a standardized protocol from previous US-based studies, were utilized to measure anti-TB and antiretroviral medication adherence in two implementation science studies in resource-limited settings, START (Lesotho) and ENRICH (Ethiopia).RESULTS: In START, 19.6% of calls were completed, with 71.9% of participants reached at least once; majority of failed call attempts were due to phones not being available (54.8%) or because participants were away from the pills (32.7%). In ENRICH, 33.5% of calls were completed, with 86.7% of participants reached at least once; the main reasons for failed call attempts were phones being switched off (31.5%), participants not answering (27.3%), participants' discomfort speaking on the phone (15.4%), and network problems (13.2%). Structural, facility-level, participant-level, and data collection challenges were encountered in these settings.DISCUSSION: Phone-based unannounced pill counts were found to be challenging, and response rates suboptimal. While some of these challenges were specific to local contexts, most of them are generalizable to resource-limited settings. In a research study context, a possible solution to ease operational challenges may be to focus phone-based unannounced pill count efforts on a randomly selected sample from participants who are provided with study phones and rigorously ensure that call attempts are made for these participants. labels: #Adult#Cell Phone#Female#Health Care Rationing#Humans#Male#Medication Adherence"
b'High levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), as well as fatty liver index (FLI) has been associated with higher cardiovascular disease risk factors in adults. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between gamma-GT, ALT, and fatty liver index FLI levels across a gradient number of ideal cardiovascular health metrics in a representative sample of adults from the Chilean National Health Survey 2009-2010. Data from 1,023 men and 1,449 women (\xe2\x89\xa5 15 years) from the Chilean Health Survey 2009-2010 were analyzed. Ideal cardiovascular health was defined as meeting ideal levels of the following components: four behaviours (smoking, body mass index, physical activity and diet adherence) and three factors (total cholesterol, blood pressure and fasting glucose). Adults were grouped into three categories according to their number of ideal cardiovascular health metrics: ideal (5-7 metrics), intermediate (3-4 metrics), and poor (0-2 metrics). Blood levels of gamma-GT and ALT were measured and the FLI was calculated. A higher number of ideal cardiovascular health index metric was associated with lower gamma-GT, ALT and FLI (p from trend analysis<0.001). Also, adults meeting at least 3-4 metrics were predicted less likely to have prevalence of abnormal levels of gamma-GT and FLI (p<0.001) compared to adults who met only 0-2 metrics. These findings reinforce the usefulness of the ideal cardiovascular health metrics proposed by the American Heart Association as a tool to identify target subjects and promote cardiovascular health in South-American adults. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alanine Transaminase#Cardiovascular System#Chile#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#gamma-Glutamyltransferase'
b'Previous studies have shown that phenotypic modulation of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) plays a pivotal role in human diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reversible differentiation of SMCs remain elusive particularly because cultured SMCs that reproducibly exhibit bidirectional phenotypic modulation have not been established. Here we established an immortalized human bladder SMC line designated as hBS11. Under differentiation-inducing conditions, hBS11 cells underwent smooth muscle differentiation accompanied by the robust expression of smooth muscle differentiation markers and isoform-dependent reorganization of actin bundles. The cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol increased intracellular calcium in differentiated hBS11 cells in an acetylcholine muscarinic receptor-dependent manner. Differentiated hBS11 cells displayed contractile properties depending on the elevation in the levels of intracellular calcium. Depolarization of membrane potential triggered inward sodium current in differentiated hBS11 cells. However, differentiated hBS11 cells lost the differentiated phenotype and resumed mitosis when re-fed with growth medium. Our study provides direct evidence pertaining to the human bladder SMCs being able to retain the capacity of reversible differentiation and that the reorganization of actin bundles is involved in the reinstatement of contractility. Moreover, we have established a human SMC line retaining high proliferating potential without compromising differentiation potential. labels: #Actins#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Transformed#Humans#Muscle, Smooth#Urinary Bladder'
b'In multispecies microbial communities, the exchange of signals such as acyl-homoserine lactones (AHL) enables communication within and between species of Gram-negative bacteria. This process, commonly known as quorum sensing, aids in the regulation of genes crucial for the survival of species within heterogeneous populations of microbes. Although signal exchange was studied extensively in well-mixed environments, less is known about the consequences of crosstalk in spatially distributed mixtures of species. Here, signaling dynamics were measured in a spatially distributed system containing multiple strains utilizing homologous signaling systems. Crosstalk between strains containing the lux, las and rhl AHL-receptor circuits was quantified. In a distributed population of microbes, the impact of community composition on spatio-temporal dynamics was characterized and compared to simulation results using a modified reaction-diffusion model. After introducing a single term to account for crosstalk between each pair of signals, the model was able to reproduce the activation patterns observed in experiments. We quantified the robustness of signal propagation in the presence of interacting signals, finding that signaling dynamics are largely robust to interference. The ability of several wild isolates to participate in AHL-mediated signaling was investigated, revealing distinct signatures of crosstalk for each species. Our results present a route to characterize crosstalk between species and predict systems-level signaling dynamics in multispecies communities. labels: #Acyl-Butyrolactones#Bacterial Physiological Phenomena#Bacterial Proteins#Gram-Negative Bacteria#Models, Biological#Quorum Sensing#Signal Transduction'
b'Mutations in the NPHS2 gene, encoding podocin, cause hereditary nephrotic syndrome. The most common podocin mutation, R138Q, is associated with early disease onset and rapid progression to end-stage renal disease. Knock-in mice carrying a R140Q mutation, the mouse analogue of human R138Q, show developmental arrest of podocytes and lethal renal failure at neonatal age. Here we created a conditional podocin knock-in model named NPHS2 R140Q/-, using a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase, which permits to study the effects of the mutation in postnatal life. Within the first week of R140Q hemizygosity induction the animals developed proteinuria, which peaked after 4-5 weeks. Subsequently the animals developed progressive renal failure, with a median survival time of 12 (95% CI: 11-13) weeks. Foot process fusion was observed within one week, progressing to severe and global effacement in the course of the disease. The number of podocytes per glomerulus gradually diminished to 18% compared to healthy controls 12-16 weeks after induction. The fraction of segmentally sclerosed glomeruli was 25%, 85% and 97% at 2, 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. Severe tubulointerstitial fibrosis was present at later disease stage and was correlated quantitatively with the level of proteinuria at early disease stages. While R140Q podocin mRNA expression was elevated, protein abundance was reduced by more than 50% within one week following induction. Whereas miRNA21 expression persistently increased during the first 4 weeks, miRNA-193a expression peaked 2 weeks after induction. In conclusion, the inducible R140Q-podocin mouse model is an auspicious model of the most common genetic cause of human nephrotic syndrome, with a spontaneous disease course strongly reminiscent of the human disorder. This model constitutes a valuable tool to test the efficacy of novel pharmacological interventions aimed to improve podocyte function and viability and attenuate proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis and progressive renal failure. labels: #Animals#Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Mutation#Nephrotic Syndrome'
b'Chronic wasting disease (CWD) is a fatal transmissible spongiform encephalopathy affecting white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni), and moose (Alces alces shirasi) in North America. In southeastern Wyoming average annual CWD prevalence in mule deer exceeds 20% and appears to contribute to regional population declines. We determined the effect of CWD on mule deer demography using age-specific, female-only, CWD transition matrix models to estimate the population growth rate (\xce\xbb). Mule deer were captured from 2010-2014 in southern Converse County Wyoming, USA. Captured adult (\xe2\x89\xa5 1.5 years old) deer were tested ante-mortem for CWD using tonsil biopsies and monitored using radio telemetry. Mean annual survival rates of CWD-negative and CWD-positive deer were 0.76 and 0.32, respectively. Pregnancy and fawn recruitment were not observed to be influenced by CWD. We estimated \xce\xbb = 0.79, indicating an annual population decline of 21% under current CWD prevalence levels. A model derived from the demography of only CWD-negative individuals yielded; \xce\xbb = 1.00, indicating a stable population if CWD were absent. These findings support CWD as a significant contributor to mule deer population decline. Chronic wasting disease is difficult or impossible to eradicate with current tools, given significant environmental contamination, and at present our best recommendation for control of this disease is to minimize spread to new areas and na\xc3\xafve cervid populations. labels: #Animals#Deer#Endemic Diseases#Female#Male#Population Density#Pregnancy#Prevalence#Proportional Hazards Models#Wasting Disease, Chronic#Wyoming'
b"Height to crown base (HCB) of a tree is an important variable often included as a predictor in various forest models that serve as the fundamental tools for decision-making in forestry. We developed spatially explicit and spatially inexplicit mixed-effects HCB models using measurements from a total 19,404 trees of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) and European beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) on the permanent sample plots that are located across the Czech Republic. Variables describing site quality, stand density or competition, and species mixing effects were included into the HCB model with use of dominant height (HDOM), basal area of trees larger in diameters than a subject tree (BAL- spatially inexplicit measure) or Hegyi's competition index (HCI-spatially explicit measure), and basal area proportion of a species of interest (BAPOR), respectively. The parameters describing sample plot-level random effects were included into the HCB model by applying the mixed-effects modelling approach. Among several functional forms evaluated, the logistic function was found most suited to our data. The HCB model for Norway spruce was tested against the data originated from different inventory designs, but model for European beech was tested using partitioned dataset (a part of the main dataset). The variance heteroscedasticity in the residuals was substantially reduced through inclusion of a power variance function into the HCB model. The results showed that spatially explicit model described significantly a larger part of the HCB variations [R2adj = 0.86 (spruce), 0.85 (beech)] than its spatially inexplicit counterpart [R2adj = 0.84 (spruce), 0.83 (beech)]. The HCB increased with increasing competitive interactions described by tree-centered competition measure: BAL or HCI, and species mixing effects described by BAPOR. A test of the mixed-effects HCB model with the random effects estimated using at least four trees per sample plot in the validation data confirmed that the model was precise enough for the prediction of HCB for a range of site quality, tree size, stand density, and stand structure. We therefore recommend measuring of HCB on four randomly selected trees of a species of interest on each sample plot for localizing the mixed-effects model and predicting HCB of the remaining trees on the plot. Growth simulations can be made from the data that lack the values for either crown ratio or HCB using the HCB models. labels: #Fagus#Models, Biological#Picea"
b'We propose a novel method for multiple clustering, which is useful for analysis of high-dimensional data containing heterogeneous types of features. Our method is based on nonparametric Bayesian mixture models in which features are automatically partitioned (into views) for each clustering solution. This feature partition works as feature selection for a particular clustering solution, which screens out irrelevant features. To make our method applicable to high-dimensional data, a co-clustering structure is newly introduced for each view. Further, the outstanding novelty of our method is that we simultaneously model different distribution families, such as Gaussian, Poisson, and multinomial distributions in each cluster block, which widens areas of application to real data. We apply the proposed method to synthetic and real data, and show that our method outperforms other multiple clustering methods both in recovering true cluster structures and in computation time. Finally, we apply our method to a depression dataset with no true cluster structure available, from which useful inferences are drawn about possible clustering structures of the data. labels: #Cluster Analysis#Likelihood Functions#Models, Theoretical'
b'Loss of muscle mass and strength represents one of the most significant contributors to impaired function in older adults. Convenient and non-invasive biomarkers are needed that can readily identify and track age-related muscle change. Previous data has suggested electrical impedance myography (EIM) has the potential to serve in this capacity. In this study we investigated how changes in EIM compared with other standard measures of muscle structure and function in aged compared with young mice. A total of 19 male mice aged approximately 25 months and 19 male mice aged 3 months underwent surface multifrequency EIM of the right gastrocnemius muscle using standard methods. Fore and hind limb grip strength, sciatic compound muscle action potential amplitude, and in-situ force of the gastrocnemius were also measured; after sacrifice, gastrocnemius myofiber size was assessed using standard histology. Spearman correlation coefficients were calculated to investigate the association between EIM and muscle characteristics. EIM in aged animals demonstrated significantly lower 50 kHz impedance phase (p<0.001) and reactance (p<0.01) values as well as reduced multifrequency parameters. In contrast, absolute gastrocnemius muscle mass was no different between young and aged mice (p = 0.58) but was reduced in aged mice after normalization to body mass (p<0.001). Median myofiber size in the aged mice was not different from that of young mice (p = 0.72). Aged mice showed reduced muscle function on the basis of normalized fore limb (p<0.001) and normalized hind limb (p<0.001) grip strength, as well as normalized gastrocnemius twitch (p<0.001) and normalized maximal isometric force (p<0.001). Sciatic compound muscle action potential amplitude was reduced in aged mice (p<0.05). EIM parameters showed good correlation with reduced standard physiological and electrophysiological measures of muscle health. Our study suggests that EIM is sensitive to aged-related muscle change and may represent a convenient and valuable method of quantifying loss of muscle health. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Body Weight#Electric Impedance#Female#Male#Mice#Muscle, Skeletal#Myography#Organ Size'
b'The Mycobacterium tuberculosis protein encoded by the Rv1986 gene is a target for memory T cells in patients with tuberculosis, and shows strong similarities to a lysine exporter LysE of Corynebacterium glutamicum. During infection, the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis adapts its metabolism to environmental changes. In this study, we found that the expression of Rv1986 is controlled by Rv1985c. Rv1985c is located directly upstream of Rv1986 with an overlapping promoter region between both genes. Semiquantitative reverse transcription PCR using an isogenic mutant of Mycobacterium tuberculosis lacking Rv1985c showed that in the presence of lysine, Rv1985c protein positively upregulated the expression of Rv1986. RNA sequencing revealed the transcription start points for both transcripts and overlapping promoters. An inverted repeat in the center of the intergenic region was identified, and binding of Rv1985c protein to the intergenic region was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Whole transcriptome expression analysis and RNAsequencing showed downregulated transcription of ppsBCD in the Rv1985c-mutant compared to the wild type strain. Taken together, our findings characterize the regulatory network of Rv1985c in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Due to their similarity of an orthologous gene pair in Corynebacterium glutamicum, we suggest to rename Rv1985c to lysG(Mt), and Rv1986 to lysE(Mt). labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Bacterial Proteins#Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Genes, Bacterial#Lysine#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Trans-Activators#Transcriptome'
b'OBJECTIVE: Having experienced 2-3 births is associated with reduced mortality versus women with<2 or \xe2\x89\xa54 births. The effect of 2-3 births on lifespan may be associated with delayed cellular aging. We hypothesized telomere length, a marker of cellular aging, would be longer in women who had 2-3 pregnancies.METHODS: Leukocyte telomere length was measured using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction in 620 women in CARDIA at the year 15 and 20 exams, expressed as the ratio of telomere repeat copy number to single-copy gene copy number (T/S). Number of pregnancies at the time of telomere length measurement was obtained (mean age = 41\xc2\xb10.1 years, average gravidity = 2.64\xc2\xb10.1 pregnancies). Participants were divided into 4 groups by number of pregnancies: 0, 1, 2-3, and \xe2\x89\xa54, to test for differences in telomere length by gravidity group.RESULTS: The mean and SD for telomere length was 0.98 \xc2\xb1 0.20 T/S in the whole cohort. There were no differences in mean telomere length between groups; 0.98\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with 0 pregnancies, 1.01\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with 1 pregnancy, 0.97\xc2\xb10.01 T/S in women with 2-3 pregnancies, and 0.99\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with \xe2\x89\xa54 pregnancies (p = 0.51). We defined high-risk (shorter) telomere length as \xe2\x89\xa425th percentile, and low-risk (longer) telomere length as \xe2\x89\xa575 percentile. There were no differences in the prevalence of high-risk or low-risk telomere length between gravidity groups.CONCLUSIONS: Gravidity was not associated with telomere length in early middle age; the protective association of 2-3 births may act through other mechanisms. labels: #Adult#Cohort Studies#Coronary Artery Disease#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Gravidity#Humans#Middle Aged#Telomere#Young Adult'
b'The role of extrinsic mortality in shaping life histories is poorly understood. However, substantial evidence suggests that extrinsic mortality interacts with density-dependence in crucial ways. We develop a model combining Evolutionarily Stable Strategies with a projection matrix that allows resource allocation to growth, tissue repairs, and reproduction. Our model examines three cases, with density-dependence acting on: (i) mortality, (ii) fecundity, and (iii) production rate. We demonstrate that density-independent extrinsic mortality influences the rate of aging, age at maturity, growth rate, and adult size provided that density-dependence acts on fertility or juvenile mortality. However, density-independent extrinsic mortality has no effect on these life history traits when density-dependence acts on survival. We show that extrinsic mortality interacts with density-dependence via a compensation mechanism: the higher the extrinsic mortality the lower the strength of density-dependence. However, this compensation fully offsets the effect of extrinsic mortality only if density-dependence acts on survival independently of age. Both the age-pattern and the type of density-dependence are crucial for shaping life history traits. labels: #Life Cycle Stages#Models, Biological#Mortality#Resource Allocation'
b'OBJECTIVES: Intrahepatic (ICC) and extrahepatic (ECC) cholangiocarcinomas are rare tumors that arise from the epithelial cells of the bile ducts, and the etiology of both cancer types is poorly understood. Thus, we utilized the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare resource to examine risk factors and novel preexisting medical conditions that may be associated with these cancer types.METHODS: Between 2000 and 2011, 2,092 ICC and 2,981 ECC cases and 323,615 controls were identified using the SEER-Medicare database. Logistic regression was used to calculate adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI).RESULTS: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease was associated with approximately 3-fold increased risks of ICC (OR = 3.52, 95% CI: 2.87-4.32) and ECC (OR = 2.93, 95% CI: 2.42-3.55). Other metabolic conditions, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, were also associated with increased risks of both cancer types. Smoking was associated with a 46% and 77% increased ICC and ECC risk, respectively. Several autoimmune/inflammatory conditions, including type 1 diabetes and gout, were associated with increased risks of ICC/ECC. As anticipated, viral hepatitis, alcohol-related disorders, and bile duct conditions were associated with both cancer types. However, thyrotoxicosis and hemochromatosis were associated with an increased risk of ICC but not ECC, but did not remain significantly associated after Bonferroni correction.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, risk factors for ICC and ECC were similar, with the exceptions of thyrotoxicosis and hemochromatosis. Notably, metabolic conditions were associated with both cancer types. As metabolic conditions are increasing in prevalence, these could be increasingly important risk factors for both types of cholangiocarcinoma. labels: #Bile Duct Neoplasms#Cholangiocarcinoma#Humans#Medicare#Risk Factors#SEER Program#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: The emergence, accumulation and spread of HIV-1 drug resistance strains in Africa could compromise the effectiveness of HIV treatment programs. This study was aimed at determining the incidence of virological failure and acquired drug resistance mutations overtime and identifying the most common mutational pathways of resistance in a well characterized HIV-1C infected Ethiopian cohort.METHODS: A total of 320 patients (220 ART na\xc3\xafve and 100 on first lines ART) were included and followed. ART initiation and patients' monitoring was based on the WHO clinical and immunological parameters. HIV viral load measurement and genotypic drug resistance testing were done at baseline (T0-2008) and after on average at a median time of 30 months on ART at three time points (T1-2011, T2-2013, T3-2015).FINDINGS: The incidence of virological failure has increased overtime from 11 at T1 to 17 at T2 and then to 30% at T3. At all time point's almost all of the patients with virological failure and accumulated drug resistance mutations had not met the WHO clinical and immunologic failure criteria and continued the failing regimen. A steep increase in the incidence and accumulation of major acquired NRTI and NNRTI drug resistance mutations have been observed (from 40% at T1 to 64% at T2 and then to 66% at T3). The most frequent NRTIs drug resistance associated mutations are mainly the lamivudine-induced mutation M184V which was detected in 4 patients at T1 and showed a 2 fold increase in the following time points (T2: n = 8) and at (T3: n = 12) and the thymidine analogue mutations (such as D67N, K70R and K219E) which were not-detected at baseline T0 and T1 but were increased progressively to 10 at T2 and to 17 at T3. The most frequent NNRTIs associated mutations were K103N, V106M and Y188C.CONCLUSIONS: An upward trend in the incidence of virological failure and accumulation of NRTI and NNRTI associated acquired antiretroviral drug resistance mutations are observed. The data suggest the need for virological monitoring, resistance testing for early detection of failure and access for TDF and PI containing drugs. Population-level and patient targeted interventions to prevent the spread of mutant variants is warranted. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Cohort Studies#Drug Resistance, Viral#Ethiopia#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Mutation#Viral Load"
b'PURPOSE: This study introduces a novel way to accurately assess gait quality. This new method called Multifeature Gait Score (MGS) is based on the computation of multiple parameters characterizing six aspects of gait (temporal, amplitude, variability, regularity, symmetry and complexity) quantified with one inertial sensor. According to the aspects described, parameters were aggregated into partial scores to indicate the altered aspect in the case of abnormal patterns. In order to evaluate the overall gait quality, partial scores were averaged to a global score.METHODS: The MGS was computed for 3 groups namely: healthy adult (10 subjects), sedentary elderly (11 subjects) and active elderly (20 subjects). Data were gathered from an inertial sensor located at the lumbar region during two sessions of 12m walking.RESULTS: The results based on ANOVA and Tukey tests showed that the partial scores with the exception of those which describe the symmetry aspect were able to discriminate between groups (p<0.05). This significant difference was also confirmed by the global score which shows a significantly lower value for the sedentary elderly group (3.58 \xc2\xb11.15) compared to the healthy adults (5.19 \xc2\xb10.84) and active elderly (4.82 \xc2\xb11.26). In addition, the intersession repeatability of the elaborated global score was excellent (ICC = 0.93, % SEM = 10.81).CONCLUSION: The results obtained support the reliability and the relevance of the MGS as a novel method to characterize gait quality. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Case-Control Studies#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Principal Component Analysis#Sedentary Lifestyle'
b'Prediction-error signals consistent with formal models of "reinforcement learning" (RL) have repeatedly been found within dopaminergic nuclei of the midbrain and dopaminoceptive areas of the striatum. However, the precise form of the RL algorithms implemented in the human brain is not yet well determined. Here, we created a novel paradigm optimized to dissociate the subtypes of reward-prediction errors that function as the key computational signatures of two distinct classes of RL models-namely, "actor/critic" models and action-value-learning models (e.g., the Q-learning model). The state-value-prediction error (SVPE), which is independent of actions, is a hallmark of the actor/critic architecture, whereas the action-value-prediction error (AVPE) is the distinguishing feature of action-value-learning algorithms. To test for the presence of these prediction-error signals in the brain, we scanned human participants with a high-resolution functional magnetic-resonance imaging (fMRI) protocol optimized to enable measurement of neural activity in the dopaminergic midbrain as well as the striatal areas to which it projects. In keeping with the actor/critic model, the SVPE signal was detected in the substantia nigra. The SVPE was also clearly present in both the ventral striatum and the dorsal striatum. However, alongside these purely state-value-based computations we also found evidence for AVPE signals throughout the striatum. These high-resolution fMRI findings suggest that model-free aspects of reward learning in humans can be explained algorithmically with RL in terms of an actor/critic mechanism operating in parallel with a system for more direct action-value learning. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Brain Mapping#Computer Simulation#Corpus Striatum#Humans#Image Enhancement#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Mental Recall#Mesencephalon#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Neuronal Plasticity#Reinforcement (Psychology)'
b'BACKGROUND: Measurement of Emergency Obstetric Care capability is common, and measurement of newborn and overall routine childbirth care has begun in recent years. These assessments of facility capabilities can be used to identify geographic inequalities in access to functional health services and to monitor improvements over time. This paper develops an approach for monitoring the childbirth environment that accounts for the delivery caseload of the facility.METHODS: We used data from the Kenya Service Provision Assessment to examine facility capability to provide quality childbirth care, including infrastructure, routine maternal and newborn care, and emergency obstetric and newborn care. A facility was considered capable of providing a function if necessary tracer items were present and, for emergency functions, if the function had been performed in the previous three months. We weighted facility capability by delivery caseload, and compared results with those generated using traditional "survey weights".RESULTS: Of the 403 facilities providing childbirth care, the proportion meeting criteria for capability were: 13% for general infrastructure, 6% for basic emergency obstetric care, 3% for basic emergency newborn care, 13% and 11% for routine maternal and newborn care, respectively. When the new caseload weights accounting for delivery volume were applied, capability improved and the proportions of deliveries occurring in a facility meeting capability criteria were: 51% for general infrastructure, 46% for basic emergency obstetric care, 12% for basic emergency newborn care, 36% and 18% for routine maternal and newborn care, respectively. This is because most of the caseload was in hospitals, which generally had better capability. Despite these findings, fewer than 2% of deliveries occurred in a facility capable of providing all functions.CONCLUSION: Reporting on the percentage of facilities capable of providing certain functions misrepresents the capacity to provide care at the national level. Delivery caseload weights allow adjustment for patient volume, and shift the denominator of measurement from facilities to individual deliveries, leading to a better representation of the context in which facility births take place. These methods could lead to more standardized national datasets, enhancing their ability to inform policy at a national and international level. labels: #Delivery, Obstetric#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Maternal Health Services#Pregnancy'
b'Feline panleukopenia is a common contagious disease with high morbidity and mortality. At present, feline parvovirus (FPV) and canine parvovirus (CPV) variants are the pathogens of feline panleukopenia. Many studies have shown that miRNAs are involved in virus-host interactions. Nevertheless, miRNA expression profiling of FPV (original virus) or CPV-2b (new virus) in cats has not been reported. To investigate these profiles, three 10-week-old cats were orally inoculated with 106 TCID50 of the viruses (FPV and CPV-2b), and the jejunums of one cat in each group were sectioned for miRNA sequencing at 5 days post-inoculation (dpi). This study is the first attempt to use miRNA analysis to understand the molecular basis of FPV and CPV infection in cats. The miRNA expression profiles of the jejunums of cats infected with FPV and CPV were obtained, and a subset of miRNAs was validated by real-time qPCR. The results show that a variety of metabolism-related pathways, cytokine- and pathogen-host interaction-related pathways, and pathology- and cellar structure-related pathways, as well as others, were affected. Specifically, the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, which is critical for cytokines and growth factors, was enriched. This description of the miRNAs involved in regulating FPV and CPV infection in vivo provides further insight into the mechanisms of viral infection and adaptation and might provide an alternative antiviral strategy for disease control and prevention. labels: #Animals#Cat Diseases#Cats#Dog Diseases#Dogs#MicroRNAs#Parvoviridae Infections#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'We introduce and use Wavelet Imaging on Multiple Scales (WIMS) as an improvement to fluorescence correlation spectroscopy to measure physical processes and features that occur across multiple length scales. In this study, wavelet transforms of cell images are used to characterize molecular dynamics at the cellular and subcellular levels (i.e. focal adhesions). We show the usefulness of the technique by applying WIMS to an image time series of a migrating osteosarcoma cell expressing fluorescently labelled adhesion proteins, which allows us to characterize different components of the cell ranging from optical resolution scale through to focal adhesion and whole cell size scales. Using WIMS we measured focal adhesion numbers, orientation and cell boundary velocities for retraction and protrusion. We also determine the internal dynamics of individual focal adhesions undergoing assembly, disassembly or elongation. Thus confirming as previously shown, WIMS reveals that the number of adhesions and the area of the protruding region of the cell are strongly correlated, establishing a correlation between protrusion size and adhesion dynamics. We also apply this technique to characterize the behavior of adhesions, actin and myosin in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing a mutant form of myosin IIB (1935D) that displays decreased filament stability and impairs front-back cell polarity. We find separate populations of actin and myosin at each adhesion pole for both the mutant and wild type form. However, we find these populations move rapidly inwards toward one another in the mutant case in contrast to the cells that express wild type myosin IIB where those populations remain stationary. Results obtained with these two systems demonstrate how WIMS has the potential to reveal novel correlations between chosen parameters that belong to different scales. labels: #Actomyosin#Animals#CHO Cells#Cricetinae#Cricetulus#Focal Adhesions#Microscopy, Fluorescence#Point Mutation#Protein Stability#Wavelet Analysis'
b'Diacerein seems to improve metabolic control and reduce inflammatory marker levels in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (Type 2 DM), but for participants with chronic kidney disease (CKD) its effect is unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of diacerein vs. placebo on urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR), glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and inflammatory cytokines in type 2 DM participants with CKD. Blood pressure (BP) and metabolic control were secondary outcomes. This randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel trial of adjuvant treatment of type 2 DM with diacerein enrolled seventy-two participants with CKD, aged 30-80 years, with glycated hemoglobin levels from 53-97 mmol/mol (7.0-11.0%), receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers and antidiabetic agents. Participants randomized to diacerein or placebo were followed-up up to 90 days. Both groups had a marked reduction in ACR, but there was no effect on glomerular filtration rate. While the diacerein group had reduced TNF-\xce\xb1 levels at the 75th percentile with a borderline significance (P = 0.05), there were no changes in the IL levels at the 75th percentile. Diacerein prevented the increase in blood glucose to the level observed in the placebo group (P = 0.04), improving metabolic control by 74%, reducing 24-hour diastolic BP, nighttime systolic and diastolic BP compared to the placebo group. In conclusion, among patients with type 2 DM and CKD, diacerein does not have an effect on ACR or GFR, but slows metabolic control deterioration and is associated with lower nighttime systolic and diastolic blood pressure.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry (Registro Brasileiro de Ensaios Clinicos; ReBeC) U1111-1156-0255. labels: #Aged#Anthraquinones#Cytokines#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Inflammation Mediators#Kidney#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Male#Middle Aged#Placebos'
b'The production of lignocellulosic-derived biofuels is a highly promising source of alternative energy, but it has been constrained by the lack of a microbial platform capable to efficiently degrade this recalcitrant material and cope with by-products that can be toxic to cells. Species that naturally grow in environments where carbon is mainly available as lignin are promising for finding new ways of removing the lignin that protects cellulose for improved conversion of lignin to fuel precursors. Enterobacter lignolyticus SCF1 is a facultative anaerobic Gammaproteobacteria isolated from tropical rain forest soil collected in El Yunque forest, Puerto Rico under anoxic growth conditions with lignin as sole carbon source. Whole transcriptome analysis of SCF1 during E.lignolyticus SCF1 lignin degradation was conducted on cells grown in the presence (0.1%, w/w) and the absence of lignin, where samples were taken at three different times during growth, beginning of exponential phase, mid-exponential phase and beginning of stationary phase. Lignin-amended cultures achieved twice the cell biomass as unamended cultures over three days, and in this time degraded 60% of lignin. Transcripts in early exponential phase reflected this accelerated growth. A complement of laccases, aryl-alcohol dehydrogenases, and peroxidases were most up-regulated in lignin amended conditions in mid-exponential and early stationary phases compared to unamended growth. The association of hydrogen production by way of the formate hydrogenlyase complex with lignin degradation suggests a possible value added to lignin degradation in the future. labels: #Culture Media#Enterobacter#Lignin#RNA, Bacterial#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'Importance: Insulin pump therapy may improve metabolic control in young patients with type 1 diabetes, but the association with short-term diabetes complications is unclear.Objective: To determine whether rates of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis are lower with insulin pump therapy compared with insulin injection therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes.Design, Setting, and Participants: Population-based cohort study conducted between January 2011 and December 2015 in 446 diabetes centers participating in the Diabetes Prospective Follow-up Initiative in Germany, Austria, and Luxembourg. Patients with type 1 diabetes younger than 20 years and diabetes duration of more than 1 year were identified. Propensity score matching and inverse probability of treatment weighting analyses with age, sex, diabetes duration, migration background (defined as place of birth outside of Germany or Austria), body mass index, and glycated hemoglobin as covariates were used to account for relevant confounders.Exposures: Type 1 diabetes treated with insulin pump therapy or with multiple (\xe2\x89\xa54) daily insulin injections.Main Outcomes and Measures: Primary outcomes were rates of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis during the most recent treatment year. Secondary outcomes included glycated hemoglobin levels, insulin dose, and body mass index.Results: Of 30\xe2\x80\xaf579 patients (mean age, 14.1 years [SD, 4.0]; 53% male), 14\xe2\x80\xaf119 used pump therapy (median duration, 3.7 years) and 16\xe2\x80\xaf460 used insulin injections (median duration, 3.6 years). Patients using pump therapy (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x899814) were matched with 9814 patients using injection therapy. Pump therapy, compared with injection therapy, was associated with lower rates of severe hypoglycemia (9.55 vs 13.97 per 100 patient-years; difference, -4.42 [95% CI, -6.15 to -2.69]; P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001) and diabetic ketoacidosis (3.64 vs 4.26 per 100 patient-years; difference, -0.63 [95% CI, -1.24 to -0.02]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.04). Glycated hemoglobin levels were lower with pump therapy than with injection therapy (8.04% vs 8.22%; difference, -0.18 [95% CI, -0.22 to -0.13], P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Total daily insulin doses were lower for pump therapy compared with injection therapy (0.84 U/kg vs 0.98 U/kg; difference, -0.14 [-0.15 to -0.13], P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). There was no significant difference in body mass index between both treatment regimens. Similar results were obtained after propensity score inverse probability of treatment weighting analyses in the entire cohort.Conclusions and Relevance: Among young patients with type 1 diabetes, insulin pump therapy, compared with insulin injection therapy, was associated with lower risks of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis and with better glycemic control during the most recent year of therapy. These findings provide evidence for improved clinical outcomes associated with insulin pump therapy compared with injection therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes. labels: #Adolescent#Blood Glucose#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Diabetic Ketoacidosis#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Infant#Injections#Insulin#Insulin Infusion Systems#Male#Regression Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Importance: Despite lack of evidence of their utility, biomarkers of ovarian reserve are being promoted as potential markers of reproductive potential.Objective: To determine the associations between biomarkers of ovarian reserve and reproductive potential among women of late reproductive age.Design, Setting, and Participants: Prospective time-to-pregnancy cohort study (2008 to date of last follow-up in March 2016) of women (N\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89981) aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less, recruited from the community in the Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, area.Exposures: Early-follicular-phase serum level of antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone (AMH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and inhibin B and urinary level of FSH.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcomes were the cumulative probability of conception by 6 and 12 cycles of attempt and relative fecundability (probability of conception in a given menstrual cycle). Conception was defined as a positive pregnancy test result.Results: A total of 750 women (mean age, 33.3 [SD, 3.2] years; 77% white; 36% overweight or obese) provided a blood and urine sample and were included in the analysis. After adjusting for age, body mass index, race, current smoking status, and recent hormonal contraceptive use, women with low AMH values (<0.7 ng/mL [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8984]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving by 6 cycles of attempt (65%; 95% CI, 50%-75%) compared with women (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89579) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 57%-66%) or by 12 cycles of attempt (84% [95% CI, 70%-91%]vs 75% [95% CI, 70%-79%], respectively). Women with high serum FSH values (>10 mIU/mL [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8983]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (63%; 95% CI, 50%-73%) compared with women (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89654) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 57%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (82% [95% CI, 70%-89%]vs 75% [95% CI, 70%-78%], respectively). Women with high urinary FSH values (>11.5 mIU/mg creatinine [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8969]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (61%; 95% CI, 46%-74%) compared with women (n = 660) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 58%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (70% [95% CI, 54%-80%]vs 76% [95% CI, 72%-80%], respectively). Inhibin B levels (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89737) were not associated with the probability of conceiving in a given cycle (hazard ratio per 1-pg/mL increase, 0.999; 95% CI, 0.997-1.001).Conclusions and Relevance: Among women aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less, biomarkers indicating diminished ovarian reserve compared with normal ovarian reserve were not associated with reduced fertility. These findings do not support the use of urinary or blood follicle-stimulating hormone tests or antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone levels to assess natural fertility for women with these characteristics. labels: #Adult#Anti-Mullerian Hormone#Biomarkers#Female#Follicle Stimulating Hormone#Humans#Infertility, Female#Inhibins#Ovarian Reserve#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Time-to-Pregnancy'
b"Accurate information regarding prognosis is fundamental to optimal clinical care. The best approach to assess patient prognosis relies on prediction models that simultaneously consider a number of prognostic factors and provide an estimate of patients' absolute risk of an event. Such prediction models should be characterized by adequately discriminating between patients who will have an event and those who will not and by adequate calibration ensuring accurate prediction of absolute risk. This Users' Guide will help clinicians understand the available metrics for assessing discrimination, calibration, and the relative performance of different prediction models. This article complements existing Users' Guides that address the development and validation of prediction models. Together, these guides will help clinicians to make optimal use of existing prediction models. labels: #Area Under Curve#Humans#Models, Statistical#Prognosis#ROC Curve#Risk Assessment#Sensitivity and Specificity"
b"Saccades shift the retina with high-speed motion. In order to compensate for the sudden displacement, the visuomotor system needs to combine saccade-related information and visual metrics. Many neurons in oculomotor but also in visual areas shift their receptive field shortly before the execution of a saccade (Duhamel, Colby,&Goldberg, 1992; Nakamura&Colby, 2002). These shifts supposedly enable the binding of information from before and after the saccade. It is a matter of current debate whether these shifts are merely location based (i.e., involve remapping of abstract spatial coordinates) or also comprise information about visual features. We have recently presented fMRI evidence for a feature-based remapping mechanism in visual areas V3, V4, and VO (Zimmermann, Weidner, Abdollahi,&Fink, 2016). In particular, we found fMRI adaptation in cortical regions representing a stimulus' retinotopic as well as its spatiotopic position. Here, we asked whether spatiotopic adaptation exists independently from retinotopic adaptation and which type of information is behaviorally more relevant after saccade execution. We first adapted at the saccade target location only and found a spatiotopic tilt aftereffect. Then, we simultaneously adapted both the fixation and the saccade target location but with opposite tilt orientations. As a result, adaptation from the fixation location was carried retinotopically to the saccade target position. The opposite tilt orientation at the retinotopic location altered the effects induced by spatiotopic adaptation. More precisely, it cancelled out spatiotopic adaptation at the saccade target location. We conclude that retinotopic and spatiotopic visual adaptation are independent effects. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Orientation#Orientation, Spatial#Photic Stimulation#Retina#Saccades"
b'We measured perceptual judgments of category, material attributes, affordances, and similarity to investigate the perceptual dimensions underlying the visual representation of a broad class of natural dynamic flows (sea waves, smoke, and windblown foliage). The dynamic flows were looped 3-s movies windowed with circular apertures of two sizes to manipulate the level of spatial context. In low levels of spatial context (smaller apertures), human observers\' judgments of material attributes and affordances were inaccurate, with estimates biased toward assumptions that the flows resulted from objects that were rigid, "pick-up-able," and not penetrable. The similarity arrangements showed dynamic flow clusters based partly on material, but dominated by color appearance. In high levels of spatial context (large apertures), observers reliably estimated material categories and their attributes. The similarity arrangements were based primarily on categories related to external, physical causes. Representational similarity analysis suggests that while shallow dimensions like color sometimes account for inferences of physical causes in the low-context condition, shallow dimensions cannot fully account for these inferences in the high-context condition. For the current broad data set of dynamic flows, the perceptual dimensions that best account for the similarity arrangements in the high-context condition are related to the intermolecular bond strength of a material\'s underlying physical structure. These arrangements are also best related to affordances that underlie common motor activities. Thus, the visual system appears to use an efficient strategy to resolve flow ambiguity; vision will sometimes rely on local, image-based, statistical properties that can support reliable inference of external physical causes, and other times it uses deeper causal knowledge to interpret and use flow information to the extent that it is useful for everyday action decisions. labels: #Attention#Form Perception#Humans#Judgment#Motion Perception#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Photic Stimulation'
b'We employed eye-tracking to investigate how performing different tasks on scenes (e.g., intentionally memorizing them, searching for an object, evaluating aesthetic preference) can affect eye movements during encoding and subsequent scene memory. We found that scene memorability decreased after visual search (one incidental encoding task) compared to intentional memorization, and that preference evaluation (another incidental encoding task) produced better memory, similar to the incidental memory boost previously observed for words and faces. By analyzing fixation maps, we found that although fixation map similarity could explain how eye movements during visual search impairs incidental scene memory, it could not explain the incidental memory boost from aesthetic preference evaluation, implying that implicit mechanisms were at play. We conclude that not all incidental encoding tasks should be taken to be similar, as different mechanisms (e.g., explicit or implicit) lead to memory enhancements or decrements for different incidental encoding tasks. labels: #Adult#Eye Movements#Female#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Male#Memory#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Task Performance and Analysis'
b'Clinical Question: Among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who do not achieve optimal glycemic control with insulin monotherapy, is the addition of oral hypoglycemic agents associated with benefits (measured by lowering of hemoglobin A1c) or adverse effects?Bottom Line: Adding a sulfonylurea to insulin was associated with more hypoglycemic events compared with insulin alone, but this association was not observed for metformin. Adding a sulfonylurea or metformin to insulin was associated with a decrease in hemoglobin A1c of approximately 1.0%. labels: #Administration, Oral#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Drug Therapy, Combination#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin#Metformin#Review Literature as Topic#Sulfonylurea Compounds'
b'Importance: Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are effective therapies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and are all currently available as an injection.Objectives: To compare the effects of oral semaglutide with placebo (primary) and open-label subcutaneous semaglutide (secondary) on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.Design, Setting, and Patients: Phase 2, randomized, parallel-group, dosage-finding, 26-week trial with 5-week follow-up at 100 sites (hospital clinics, general practices, and clinical research centers) in 14 countries conducted between December 2013 and December 2014. Of 1106 participants assessed, 632 with type 2 diabetes and insufficient glycemic control using diet and exercise alone or a stable dose of metformin were randomized. Randomization was stratified by metformin use.Interventions: Once-daily oral semaglutide of 2.5 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 5 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 10 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 20 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 40-mg 4-week dose escalation (standard escalation; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8971), 40-mg 8-week dose escalation (slow escalation; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 40-mg 2-week dose escalation (fast escalation, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), oral placebo (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8971; double-blind) or once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide of 1.0 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970) for 26 weeks.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary end point was change in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) from baseline to week 26. Secondary end points included change from baseline in body weight and adverse events.Results: Baseline characteristics were comparable across treatment groups. Of the 632 randomized patients (mean age, 57.1 years [SD, 10.6]; men, 395 (62.7%); diabetes duration, 6.3 years [SD, 5.2]; body weight, 92.3 kg [SD, 16.8]; BMI, 31.7 [SD, 4.3]), 583 (92%) completed the trial. Mean change in HbA1c level from baseline to week 26 decreased with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -0.7% to -1.9%) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-1.9%) and placebo (-0.3%); oral semaglutide reductions were significant vs placebo (dosage-dependent estimated treatment difference [ETD] range for oral semaglutide vs placebo, -0.4% to -1.6%; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.01 for 2.5 mg,<.001 for all other dosages). Reductions in body weight were greater with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -2.1 kg to -6.9 kg) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-6.4 kg) vs placebo (-1.2 kg), and significant for oral semaglutide dosages of 10 mg or more vs placebo (dosage-dependent ETD range, -0.9 to -5.7 kg; P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Adverse events were reported by 63% to 86% (371 of 490 patients) in the oral semaglutide groups, 81% (56 of 69 patients) in the subcutaneous semaglutide group, and 68% (48 of 71 patients) in the placebo group; mild to moderate gastrointestinal events were most common.Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients with type 2 diabetes, oral semaglutide resulted in better glycemic control than placebo over 26 weeks. These findings support phase 3 studies to assess longer-term and clinical outcomes, as well as safety.Trial Registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01923181. labels: #Administration, Oral#Blood Glucose#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Glucagon-Like Peptides#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Injections, Subcutaneous#Male#Middle Aged#Nausea'
b'Importance: Transfusion of red blood cells from female donors has been associated with increased mortality in male recipients.Objective: To quantify the association between red blood cell transfusion from female donors with and without a history of pregnancy and mortality of red blood cell recipients.Design, Setting, and Participants: Retrospective cohort study of first-time transfusion recipients at 6 major Dutch hospitals enrolled from May 30, 2005, to September 1, 2015; the final follow-up date was September 1, 2015. The primary analysis was the no-donor-mixture cohort (ie, either all red blood cell transfusions exclusively from male donors, or all exclusively from female donors without a history of pregnancy, or all exclusively from female donors with a history of pregnancy). The association between mortality and exposure to transfusions from ever-pregnant or never-pregnant female donors was analyzed using life tables and time-varying Cox proportional hazards models.Exposures: Red blood cell transfusions from ever-pregnant or never-pregnant female donors, compared with red blood cell transfusions from male donors.Main Outcomes and Measures: All-cause mortality during follow-up.Results: The cohort for the primary analyses consisted of 31\xe2\x80\xaf118 patients (median age, 65 [interquartile range, 42-77] years; 52% female) who received 59\xe2\x80\xaf320 red blood cell transfusions exclusively from 1 of 3 types of donors (88% male; 6% ever-pregnant female; and 6% never-pregnant female). The number of deaths in this cohort was 3969 (13% mortality). For male recipients of red blood cell transfusions, all-cause mortality rates after a red blood cell transfusion from an ever-pregnant female donor vs male donor were 101 vs 80 deaths per 1000 person-years (time-dependent "per transfusion" hazard ratio [HR]for death, 1.13 [95% CI, 1.01-1.26]). For receipt of transfusion from a never-pregnant female donor vs male donor, mortality rates were 78 vs 80 deaths per 1000 person-years (HR, 0.93 [95% CI, 0.81-1.06]). Among female recipients of red blood cell transfusions, mortality rates for an ever-pregnant female donor vs male donor were 74 vs 62 per 1000 person-years (HR, 0.99 [95% CI, 0.87 to 1.13]); for a never-pregnant female donor vs male donor, mortality rates were 74 vs 62 per 1000 person-years (HR, 1.01 [95% CI, 0.88-1.15]).Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients who received red blood cell transfusions, receipt of a transfusion from an ever-pregnant female donor, compared with a male donor, was associated with increased all-cause mortality among male recipients but not among female recipients. Transfusions from never-pregnant female donors were not associated with increased mortality among male or female recipients. Further research is needed to replicate these findings, determine their clinical significance, and identify the underlying mechanism. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Blood Donors#Child#Child, Preschool#Erythrocyte Transfusion#Erythrocytes#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Male#Middle Aged#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Sex Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To determine the constituents and origin of the yellow pigment in surgically removed lamellar hole-associated epiretinal proliferation (LHEP) in patients with lamellar macular hole (LMH).Methods: This prospective case series comprised nine eyes with LMH in patients aged 41 to 83 years. The presence of LHEP was confirmed by preoperative optical coherence tomography; the distribution of macular pigment was observed by two-wavelength fundus autofluorescence technique before and after surgery. The subjects underwent a 25-gauge vitrectomy, and the surgically removed epiretinal membranous tissue was fixed with formalin. The specimens were examined using resonance Raman microscopy, and paraffin sections were stained with antiglial fibrillary acidic protein.Results: Seven cases presented with LHEP, and the presence of yellow pigment was confirmed using an operating microscope. Carotenoid-specific Raman signals with three major Raman peaks could be identified in the specimens with LHEP. These specimens were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein staining. Using the fundus autofluorescence technique, a central defect in the distribution of the macular pigment was noted in the exact area of the lamellar hole. This type of defect was no longer visible after surgical repair of the lamellar hole.Conclusions: The constituents of the yellow pigment in the removed LHEP were carotenoids that typically originate from the macular xanthophyll pigments at the fovea. Since LHEP is reported to be composed of M\xc3\xbcller cells, we hypothesize that xanthophyll carotenoids at the fovea are contained in the M\xc3\xbcller cells. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers#Epiretinal Membrane#Female#Fundus Oculi#Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein#Humans#Macular Pigment#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Retinal Perforations#Spectrum Analysis, Raman#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Vitrectomy#Xanthophylls'
b'Purpose: The clearer divergence in spectral sensitivity between native rod and human L-cone (L*-cone) opsins in the transgenic Opn1lwLIAIS mouse (LIAIS) allows normal visual processes mediated by these photoreceptor subtypes to be isolated effectively using the silent substitution technique. The objective of this study was to further characterize the influence of mean luminance and temporal frequency on the functional properties of signals originating in each photoreceptor separately and independently of adaptation state in LIAIS mice.Methods: Electroretinographic (ERG) recordings to sine-wave rod and L*-cone modulation at different mean luminances (0.1-130.0 cd/m2) and temporal frequencies (6-26 Hz) were examined in anesthetized LIAIS (N = 17) and C57Bl/6 mice (N = 8).Results: We report maximum rod-driven response with 8-Hz modulation at 0.1 to 0.5 cd/m2, which was almost four times larger than maximum cone-driven response at 8 Hz, 21.5 to 130 cd/m2. Over these optimal luminances, both rod- and cone-driven response amplitudes exhibited low-pass functions with similar frequency resolution limits, albeit their distinct luminance sensitivities. There were, however, two distinguishing features: (1) the frequency-dependent amplitude decrease of rod-driven responses was more profound, and (2) linear relationships describing rod-driven response phases as a function of stimulus frequency were steeper.Conclusions: Employing the silent substitution method with stimuli of appropriate luminance on the LIAIS mouse (as on human observers) increases the specificity, robustness, and scope to which photoreceptor-driven responses can be reliably assayed compared to the standard photoreceptor isolation methods. labels: #Animals#Color Vision#Cone Opsins#Electroretinography#Female#Male#Mesopic Vision#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Photic Stimulation#Photoreceptor Cells, Vertebrate#Vision, Ocular'
b'Purpose: We investigated whether subthreshold retinal phototherapy (SRPT) was associated with recruitment of bone marrow (BM)-derived cells to the neurosensory retina (NSR) and RPE layer.Methods: GFP chimeric mice and wild-type (WT) mice were subjected to SRPT using a slit-lamp infrared laser. Duty cycles of 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20% (0.1 seconds, 250 mW, spot size 50 \xce\xbcm) with 30 applications were placed 50 to 100 \xce\xbcm from the optic disc. In adoptive transfer studies, GFP+ cells were given intravenously immediately after WT mice received SRPT. Immunohistochemistry was done for ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule-1 (IBA-1+), CD45, Griffonia simplicifolia lectin isolectin B4, GFP or cytokeratin). Expression of Ccl2, Il1b, Il6, Hspa1a, Hsp90aa1, Cryab, Hif1a, Cxcl12, and Cxcr4 mRNA and flow cytometry of the NSR and RPE-choroid were performed.Results: Within 12 to 24 hours of SRPT, monocytes were detected in the NSR and RPE-choroid. Detection of reparative progenitors in the RPE occurred at 2 weeks using flow cytometry. Recruitment of GFP+ cells to the RPE layer occurred in a duty cycle-dependent manner in chimeric mice and in mice undergoing adoptive transfer. Hspa1a, Hsp90aa1, and Cryab mRNAs increased in the NSR at 2 hours post laser; Hif1a, Cxcl12, Hspa1a increased at 4 hours in the RPE-choroid; and Ccl2, Il1b, Ifng, and Il6 increased at 12 to 24 hours in the RPE-choroid.Conclusions: SRPT induces monocyte recruitment to the RPE followed by hematopoietic progenitor cell homing at 2 weeks. Recruitment occurs in a duty cycle-dependent manner and potentially could contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of SRPT. labels: #Adoptive Transfer#Animals#Biomarkers#Bone Marrow Cells#Cell Movement#Cells, Cultured#Chemokine CXCL12#Choroid#Female#Flow Cytometry#Green Fluorescent Proteins#Heat-Shock Proteins#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Immunohistochemistry#Laser Therapy#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Monocytes#Phototherapy#Receptors, CXCR4#Retina#Retinal Pigment Epithelium'
b'Purpose: To characterize the density and distribution of the radial peripapillary capillary plexus (RPCP) and its relationship with retinal nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness in healthy subjects.Methods: Using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), split-spectrum amplitude decorrelation angiography algorithm and automated montaging, wide-field OCT angiography (OCTA) was used to measure the RPCP capillary density (CD) and NFL thickness. Polar sector-average CD and thickness maps were also created on each eye.Results: Wide-field OCTA (8 \xc3\x97 8 mm) in 10 healthy eyes from 10 subjects demonstrated the distribution of the RPCP throughout the posterior pole. RPCP-CD decreases with distance from the disc, but along the arcuate nerve fiber bundles relatively dense (>half maximum density) RPCP extends more than 5 mm from the disc and includes regions superior to and inferior to the macula. The RPCP-CD and NFL thickness are highly correlated (R2 = 0.85, P<0.001) and fit well with a nonlinear stacked-layer model. The model fit suggests that the RPCP is present when the NFL is thicker than 17.9 \xce\xbcm and reaches a ceiling area density of 84% and that the RPCP has an apparent volume density of 19% at the current instrument transverse resolution. This indicates that capillary overlap can be expected to occur when NFL thickness reaches 40 \xce\xbcm.Conclusions: The wide distribution of dense overlapping RPCP suggests that wider (up to 8 mm vertical and 7 mm horizontal) OCTA scans may be better investigate capillary loss in the early stages of glaucoma or other optic neuropathies. labels: #Adult#Capillaries#Cell Count#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Nerve Fibers#Optic Disk#Retinal Artery#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b"Purpose: To assess possible intraday variability in Bruch's membrane opening-based (BMO) assessment of neuroretinal rim by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) of the optic nerve head (ONH) as well as to evaluate its independence from intraindividual IOP changes.Methods: In this noninterventional, prospective cohort study, 51 consecutively enrolled patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension underwent standardized SD-OCT of the ONH and IOP assessment at two different time points with a time gap of 5 hours on the same day. Random effects models, intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and Bland-Altman plots were used to analyze repeatability of BMO minimum rim width (BMO-MRW) and area (BMO-MRA) and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measurements.Results: Mean BMO area was 1.86 \xc2\xb1 0.30 mm2. At baseline, mean BMO-MRW was 206.46 \xc2\xb1 0.86 \xce\xbcm, mean BMO-MRA was 0.89 \xc2\xb1 0.34 mm2, and mean RNFL thickness was 71.61 \xc2\xb1 0.20 \xce\xbcm. Within intraindividual measurements, mean difference was 2.95 \xce\xbcm or 1.76% for BMO-MRW, 0.02 mm2 or 2.68% for BMO-MRA, and 1.18 \xce\xbcm or 1.89% for RNFL thickness. Comparing time points, \xce\xb72 was 0.001 (P = 0.757) for RNFL thickness, 0.043 (P = 0.01) for BMO-MRA, and 0.07 (P = 0.06) for BMO-MRW. Intraclass correlation coefficients were greater than 0.994, respectively. Variability of morphometric parameters did not correlate to intraindividual IOP fluctuations.Conclusions: Assessment of BMO-MRW by SD-OCT shows high intraday repeatability, which is comparable to the parameter RNFL thickness. Variability seems not to be driven by typical moderate intraday fluctuations of IOP. The two-dimensional parameter BMO-MRA incorporates a fairly higher intraindividual variability. labels: #Aged#Bruch Membrane#Cohort Studies#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence"
b'Purpose: To investigate the application of optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) in evaluation of geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD).Methods: Patients with GA were prospectively enrolled and studied with blue fundus autofluorescence (FAF), en face structural OCT, and OCT-A. OCT-A images were acquired using a slab of whole choroid, whereas en face structural OCT images were obtained at the ellipsoid zone (EZ), at the choroidal (CH) level, and at the scleral (SC) level. Three readers independently measured the GA extension areas and evaluated the foveal sparing in each examination. Intraobserver/interobserver agreements and agreement between each couple of imaging techniques were assessed.Results: A total of 47 eyes (26 patients, mean age 76 \xc2\xb1 7 years) with GA (mean area using FAF: 8.77 \xc2\xb1 5.00 mm2) were included. Intraobserver and interobserver agreement was excellent for all imaging techniques (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]>0.985), even if en face EZ structural OCT revealed the poorest quality agreement limits. Considering the analysis between each couple of imaging techniques, ICC was excellent between OCT-A compared with FAF (ICC: 0.995), followed by en face structural OCT at CH level (ICC: 0.992), at SC level (ICC: 0.986), and at EZ level (ICC: 0.973). No differences were detected between multifocal and monofocal GA lesions. Considering the evaluation of foveal involvement, lower agreements were disclosed between FAF and all other imaging techniques.Conclusions: OCT-A is a reliable technique for easily visualizing and quantifying GA with the advantages, compared to current imaging techniques, of offering together both structural and blood flow information regarding retinal and choroidal layers and excluding choroidal neovascularization. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Geographic Atrophy#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Observer Variation#Optical Imaging#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: To investigate layer-by-layer changes in retinal thickness and reflectivity regarding the severity grade of acute retinal artery occlusion (RAO) using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT).Methods: This study is a retrospective, observational case-control series that took place in an institutional setting and included 148 eyes from 74 patients diagnosed with acute RAO (central or branch). SD-OCT examinations were taken at baseline. Based on OCT findings, RAO was categorized into three grades (incomplete, subtotal, total). The thickness and reflectivity of selected retinal layers were measured from SD-OCT images. The data were compared across the three grades and against the contralateral eyes (controls). The main outcome measures were thickness and reflectivity of selected retinal layers.Results: The thickness of the inner and middle retinal layers differed significantly across the three RAO groups (P<0.001), whereas the outer retinal layer thickness remained not significantly different. Reflectivity values showed statistically significant differences in the inner, middle, and outer retinal layers, but not in the vitreous body (P<0.001).Conclusions: The reflectivity changes of selected retinal layers differ significantly regarding different grades of RAO. SD-OCT reflectivity measurement may be used as a noninvasive method to estimate the grade of retinal ischemia in RAO. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retina#Retinal Artery Occlusion#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity'
b"Purpose: Fibroblast activation may play an important role in pterygium progression. Synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor \xce\xb3 (PPAR-\xce\xb3) ligands have been shown to be effective antifibrotic agents against transforming growth factor \xce\xb21 (TGF-\xce\xb21) induced fibrosis in several tissues. We aimed to investigate the antifibrotic effects of the PPAR-\xce\xb3 ligand rosiglitazone in pterygium fibroblasts and the underlying mechanisms.Methods: Profibrotic activation was induced by TGF-\xce\xb21 in primary cultured human pterygium fibroblasts and the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA), and extra cellular matrix proteins synthesis was detected by western blotting, real-time PCR, immunostaining, and flow cytometry. Pharmaceutical inhibition of PPAR-\xce\xb3 receptor was used to determine the dependency or otherwise of rosiglitazone's action on PPAR-\xce\xb3 signaling. Major signaling pathways downstream of TGF-\xce\xb21 were investigated by western blotting to assess their possible association with rosiglitazone's effect. Cell viability and apoptosis were investigated to assess drug-induced cytotoxicity, and the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on cell migration was further determined.Results: \xce\xb1-SMA and fibronectin synthesis induced by TGF-\xce\xb21 were suppressed by rosiglitazone treatment in a dose-dependent manner. Rosiglitazone also inhibited intrinsic TGF-\xce\xb21 expression. Smad2/3, ERK1/2, and P38 pathways were activated in response to TGF-\xce\xb21. Rosiglitazone suppressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced P38 MAPK activation, while ERK1/2 and Smad2/3 signaling remained unaffected. The observed antifibrotic effect of rosiglitazone was not affected by the PPAR-\xce\xb3 antagonist GW9662, indicating it is not PPAR-\xce\xb3 dependent. Rosiglitazone also inhibited the proliferation and migration of pterygium fibroblasts.Conclusions: Rosiglitazone suppresses TGF-\xce\xb21-induced myofibroblast activation and extra cellular matrix synthesis in pterygium fibroblasts at least partly through the modulation of the p38 MAPK pathway. labels: #Actins#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cells, Cultured#Extracellular Matrix Proteins#Fibrosis#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Myofibroblasts#PPAR gamma#Pterygium#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Signal Transduction#Thiazolidinediones#Transforming Growth Factor beta1#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases"
b"Purpose: To compare morphologic changes on en face images derived from wide-field swept-source optical coherence tomography (ssOCT) to hypo- and hyperautofluorescent (hypoAF, hyperAF) areas on short-wavelength autofluorescence (SW-AF), and near-infrared (NIR)-AF in recessive Stargardt disease (STGD1).Methods: Wide-field ssOCT cube scans were obtained from 16 patients (16 eyes). Averaged B-scans and SW-AF images were obtained using Spectralis HRA+OCT. NIR-AF images were obtained from 6 eyes. The inner/outer segment (IS/OS), OS/RPE, and RPE/Bruch's membrane boundaries were segmented, and en face slab images generated. A subRPE slab image was used to measure the abnormal RPE area, and an IS/OS slab image, the IS/OS junction loss area. These were compared to hypo- and abnormal SW-AF areas, and hypoNIR-AF areas. A preRPE(OS) slab image was used to evaluate the spatial and intraretinal locations of flecks.Results: For all eyes, RPE atrophy was visualized as a central hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab, and IS/OS junction loss as an abnormal reflective area on the IS/OS slab; the latter was significantly larger (P = 0.04). There was good agreement between the hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab image and hypoSW-AF area, and between the abnormal reflective area on the IS/OS slab and hypo-hyperSW-AF area; the hypoNIR-AF area indicated that the hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab underestimated RPE atrophy. The spatial locations of hyperreflective flecks on the en face preRPE(OS) slab image corresponded to those on the SW-AF images.Conclusions: Wide-field en face OCT imaging has the potential to be a clinically useful tool for the management of STGD1. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Atrophy#Bruch Membrane#Child#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Optical Imaging#Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Inner Segment#Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Outer Segment#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult"
b'Purpose: We determined whether there is relative sparing of pupil function in glaucoma patients with normal pressures compared to those with high pressures.Methods: A cross-sectional study was done of 68 patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG): 38 had normal IOPs on all-day phasing before treatment (never>21 mm Hg), with confirmed progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy (NTG) and 30 had glaucomatous optic neuropathy associated with elevated intraocular pressures (>25 mm Hg; HP-POAG). The relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) was quantified with the RAPDx device, and mean deviation of visual field loss was obtained from reliable Humphrey visual fields. Outcomes measures evaluated were difference in slope between NTG and HP-POAG when plotting: (1) RAPD score against difference in mean deviation (MD) between eyes, and (2) RAPD score against difference in RNFL thickness between eyes.Results: The slopes for magnitude of RAPD versus difference in MD were -0.06 (95% confidence interval [CI], -0.076, -0.044) for patients with NTG and -0.08 (95% CI, -0.109, -0.067) for those with HP-POAG. Fitting the interaction term showed a statistically significant difference between the slopes (0.023; 95% CI [0.0017, 0.0541]; P value = 0.037; HP-POAG reference group). Thus, for difference in MD, the slope for patients with NTG was flatter than the slope for those with HP-POAG.Conclusions: Glaucoma patients with NTG have a lesser RAPD for a given level of intereye difference of HVF MD, compared to patients with high IOPs. This suggests that damage to intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) differs between the normal and high-pressure forms of open-angle glaucoma (OAG), and supports the theory that mitochondrial optic neuropathies may have a role in the group of diagnoses currently termed normal tension glaucoma. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dark Adaptation#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Ocular Hypertension#Pupil#Pupil Disorders#Tonometry, Ocular'
b'Purpose: To compare the sectoral structure-function relationships in glaucoma between two structural parameters, vessel density (VD) and thickness, in the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL).Methods: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) angiography (AngioVue/RTVue-XR) for VD and OCT (RS-3000) for peripapillary RNFL thickness were performed in 129 eyes from 129 subjects (94 glaucoma, 17 glaucoma suspects, and 18 normal eyes). Humphrey visual field (VF) tests were performed using a SITA standard 24-2 program. Sectoral structure-function relationships based on the Garway-Heath map were compared between VD and thickness using a semipartial correlation coefficient (sr) and partial residual plots determined by multiple linear regression models controlling for the effects of sex, age, axial length, disc area, beta- and gamma- parapapillary atrophy (PPA) zones, and signal strength index (SSI).Results: For all VF sectors, the sr2 of VD was largest when the VD sector corresponded to the VF sector (sr2: 0.17-0.39). In contrast, in only three sectors was the sr2 of thickness largest when the thickness sector corresponded to the VF sector (sr2: 0.02-0.34): the inferior temporal, temporal, and superior temporal sectors. The partial residual plots against VD showed more linear relationships with VF sensitivity than those against thickness in the qualitative evaluation of fitting by locally weighted scatterplot smoothing. Eyes with larger SSI had higher VD, whereas eyes with a larger extension of the PPA zone into the VD measurement area had lower VD.Conclusions: Peripapillary RNFL VD and thickness have different characteristic sectoral structure-function relationships in glaucoma. labels: #Axial Length, Eye#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Gonioscopy#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Tonometry, Ocular#Visual Field Tests#Visual Fields'
b'Purpose: To investigate surface expression of CD11b and CD200 on circulating monocytes in patients with polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV).Methods: This was a prospective case-control study of patients with PCV (n = 27), age-matched healthy controls (n = 27), and patients with neovascular AMD (n = 49). All participants underwent a comprehensive ocular examination. Fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography were performed in patients suspected of neovascular AMD or PCV. Polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy was angiographically categorized into those with a strong presence of a branching vascular network (BVN) (type 1) or with a faint/no clear presence of a BVN (type 2). Fresh venous blood was stained with fluorescent antibodies for flow cytometric analyses. We compared the percentages of CD11b+, CD200+, and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes between groups of diagnosis and between different angiographic subtypes of PCV.Results: Overall, CD11b+ monocytes were both increased in patients with PCV and neovascular AMD. CD200+ and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes were increased in patients with neovascular AMD. An age-related increase in CD11b+CD200+ monocytes was absent in patients with PCV and neovascular AMD. Patients with PCV type 1 had significantly higher CD11b+, CD200+, and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes, whereas patients with PCV type 2 had levels similar to that in healthy controls.Conclusions: We found that PCV is immunologically heterogeneous with significant differences between angiographic subtypes. Increased CD11b+ and CD200+ monocytes in those with a strong presence of BVN indicate that BVN development may be associated with retinal injury and a VEGF-mediated process that is either reflected or propelled by systemic changes in monocytes. labels: #Aged#Antigens, CD#Biomarkers#CD11b Antigen#Case-Control Studies#Choroidal Neovascularization#Coloring Agents#Female#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Indocyanine Green#Macular Degeneration#Male#Monocytes#Polyps#Prospective Studies'
b'Purpose: Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) implies that transient ischemia in a limb can affect perfusion in a target organ elsewhere in the body. The changes in perfusion can be assumed to be paralleled by changes in the vessel diameters in the target organ. It remains to be elucidated whether the diameter of normal retinal vessels can be used as a marker of RIC in vivo.Methods: In 20 normal persons aged 20 to 31 years the Dynamic Vessel Analyzer (DVA) was used to measure the resting diameter and diameter changes during isometric exercise and flicker stimulation before, immediately after, and 1 hour after RIC induced by transient ischemia in the left arm.Results: The baseline diameter of retinal venules was reduced nonsignificantly immediately after (P = 0.07) and significantly 1 hour after RIC (P = 0.009), whereas the baseline diameter of arterioles was unaffected by the intervention (P = 0.61). Arterial constriction induced by isometric exercise was significantly reduced immediately after RIC (P = 0.04), but not 1 hour after RIC (P = 0.99). None of the other diameter responses were affected by RIC (P = 0.22 for all comparisons).Conclusions: The diameter of retinal vessels might potentially be a marker of ischemic conditioning in the body in general. The effect of RIC on retinal vascular diseases where ischemia is a part of the pathogenesis should be investigated. labels: #Adult#Arm#Blood Pressure#Brachial Artery#Exercise#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Ischemia#Ischemic Preconditioning#Male#Photography#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Vasodilation#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: Induction of focal retinal detachment (RD) for subretinal delivery of stem cells and gene therapy is increasingly common. In order to determine if this procedure has an adverse impact on the retina, we use spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) to evaluate the pre- and postoperative retinal anatomy of the incidentally detached normal retina surrounding large submacular hemorrhages (SMH) during surgical displacement procedures.Methods: Retrospective, observational study of human subjects with monocular SMH evaluated before and after surgical displacement using clinical exam, fundus photography, and SD-OCT. Manual measurements of the inner retinal thickness (IRT), outer retinal thickness (ORT), and full retinal thickness (FRT) were made in regions involving the SMH and surrounding normal retina. Comparison of retinal thickness measurements was made using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test.Results: Seven eyes were included in this study. All eyes successfully underwent surgical displacement of SMH. Visual acuity improved in 6/7 subjects and was unchanged in the remaining subject. Incidental RD of the normal retinal regions surrounding the SMH did not cause any significant change in IRT, ORT, or FRT that was detectable by SD-OCT. In contrast, mean FRT overlying regions with SMH was significantly greater before surgery compared to after displacement of SMH or normal adjacent retina.Conclusions: Surgically induced focal RD does not cause detectable retinal changes in the incidentally detached normal retina surrounding large SMH. Therefore, surgical induction of focal RD should not be considered to have the same adverse impact on the retina as pathologic RD. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retina#Retinal Detachment#Retinal Hemorrhage#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Vitrectomy'
b'Purpose: To elucidate functions of wild-type myocilin, a secreted glycoprotein associated with glaucoma.Methods: Lysates of mouse eyes were used for immunoprecipitation with affinity-purified antibodies against mouse myocilin. Shotgun proteomic analysis was used for the identification of proteins interacting with myocilin. Colocalization of myocilin and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3) in different eye structures was investigated by a multiplex fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunofluorescent labeling with subsequent confocal microscopy. Matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) activity assay was used to test effects of myocilin on TIMP3 inhibitory action.Results: TIMP3 was identified by a shotgun proteomic analysis as a protein that was coimmunoprecipitated with myocilin from eye lysates of wild-type and transgenic mice expressing elevated levels of mouse myocilin but not from lysates of transgenic mice expressing mutated mouse myocilin. Interaction of myocilin and TIMP3 was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation of myocilin and TIMP3 from HEK293 cells transiently transfected with cDNAs encoding these proteins. The olfactomedin domain of myocilin is essential for interaction with TIMP3. In the eye, the main sites of myocilin and TIMP3 colocalization are the trabecular meshwork, sclera, and choroid. Using purified proteins, it has been shown that myocilin markedly enhanced the inhibitory activity of TIMP3 toward MMP2.Conclusions: Myocilin may serve as a modulator of TIMP3 activity via interactions with the myocilin olfactomedin domain. Our data imply that in the case of MYOCILIN null or some glaucoma-causing mutations, inhibitory activity of TIMP3 toward MMP2 might be reduced, mimicking deleterious mutations in the TIMP3 gene. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Ciliary Body#Cytoskeletal Proteins#Eye Proteins#Female#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Gene Expression#Glycoproteins#HEK293 Cells#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Confocal#Proteomics#RNA, Messenger#Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-3#Trabecular Meshwork#Transfection'
b'Purpose: A small, full-field flicker electroretinogram (ERG) recording system was recently developed to record flicker ERGs without mydriasis (RETeval). The device delivers a stimulus with constant retinal illuminance by adjusting the retinal luminance to compensate for changes in the pupillary area. The purpose of this study was to determine what factors affect the fundamental components of the flicker ERGs recorded by RETeval in young healthy subjects.Methods: Flicker ERGs were recorded with the RETeval system from 150 eyes of 150 young healthy subjects (age, 20-29 years). Univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses were performed to identify the factors that affected the implicit times and amplitudes of the fundamental component of the flicker ERGs. The independent variables included age, sex, refractive error, axial length, and pupillary area.Results: Multivariate regression analyses indicated that a longer axial length (P = 0.03) and larger pupillary area (P = 0.008) were independent factors that were significantly associated with longer implicit times of the fundamental component of the flicker ERGs. Multivariate regression analyses also showed that the female sex (P = 0.03) was an independent factor, which was significantly associated with larger amplitude fundamental component of the flicker ERGs.Conclusions: These results indicate that the fundamental components of the RETeval flicker ERGs are significantly affected by the axial length, pupillary area, and sex of young healthy subjects. The results also suggest that it would be better to compensate for the Stiles-Crawford effect when flicker ERGs are recorded with natural pupils. labels: #Adult#Axial Length, Eye#Electroretinography#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Lighting#Male#Photic Stimulation#Prospective Studies#Pupil#Retina#Retinal Cone Photoreceptor Cells#Sex Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of hereditary retinal degeneration in which mutations commonly result in the initial phase of rod cell death followed by gradual cone cell death. The mechanisms by which the mutations lead to photoreceptor cell death in RP have not been clearly elucidated. There is currently no effective treatment for RP. The purpose of this work was to explore iron chelation therapy for improving cone survival and function in the rd10 mouse model of RP.Methods: Two iron-chelating drugs, 5-(4-(2-hydroxyethyl) piperazin-1-yl (methyl)-8-hydroxyquinoline (VK28) and its chimeric derivative 5-(N-methyl-N-propargyaminomethyl)-quinoline-8-oldihydrochloride (VAR10303), were injected intraperitoneally to rd10 mice every other day starting from postnatal day 14. We investigate the effects of the two compounds on cone rescue at three time points, using a combination of immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and a series of visual function tests.Results: VK28 and VAR10303 treatments partially rescued cones, and significantly improved visual function in rd10 mice. Moreover, we showed that the neuroprotective effects of VK28 and VAR10303 were correlated to inhibition of neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that downregulation of NF-kB and p53 is likely to be the mechanisms by which proinflammatory mediators and apoptosis are reduced in the rd10 retina, respectively.Conclusions: VK28 and VAR10303 provided partial histologic and functional rescue of cones in RD10 mice. Our study demonstrated that iron chelation therapy might represent an effective therapeutic strategy for RP patients. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cell Survival#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Hydroxyquinolines#Immunohistochemistry#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Iron Chelating Agents#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#NF-kappa B#Neuroprotective Agents#Oxidative Stress#Piperazines#Quinolines#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Retinal Cone Photoreceptor Cells#Retinitis Pigmentosa#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'Purpose: The actin cytoskeleton of trabecular meshwork (TM) cells plays a role in regulating aqueous humor outflow. Many studies have investigated stress fibers, but F-actin also assembles into other supramolecular structures including filopodia. Recently, specialized filopodia called tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) have been described, which communicate molecular signals and organelles directly between cells. Here, we investigate TNT formation by TM cells.Methods: Human TM cells were labeled separately with the fluorescent dyes, DiO and DiD, or with mitochondrial dye. Fixed or live TM cells were imaged using confocal microscopy. Image analysis software was used to track fluorescent vesicles and count the number and length of filopodia. The number of fluorescently labeled vesicles transferred between cells was counted in response to specific inhibitors of the actin cytoskeleton. Human TM tissue was stained with phalloidin.Results: Live-cell confocal imaging of cultured TM cells showed transfer of fluorescently labeled vesicles and mitochondria via TNTs. In TM tissue, a long (160 \xce\xbcm) actin-rich cell process bridged an intertrabecular space and did not adhere to the substratum. Treatment of TM cells with CK-666, an Arp2/3 inhibitor, significantly decreased the number and length of filopodia, decreased transfer of fluorescently labeled vesicles and induced thick stress fibers compared to vehicle control. Conversely, inhibiting stress fibers using Y27632 increased transfer of vesicles and induced long cell processes.Conclusions: Identification of TNTs provides a means by which TM cells can directly communicate with each other over long distances. This may be particularly important to overcome limitations of diffusion-based signaling in the aqueous humor fluid environment. labels: #Actin-Related Protein 2-3 Complex#Actins#Adolescent#Adult#Amides#Cell Communication#Child#Child, Preschool#Enzyme Inhibitors#Fluorescent Dyes#Humans#Indoles#Microscopy, Confocal#Middle Aged#Nanotubes#Pseudopodia#Pyridines#Signal Transduction#Staining and Labeling#Trabecular Meshwork#Transport Vesicles'
b'Purpose: The aim of this article is to report the investigation of the structural features of ABCA4, a protein associated with a genetic retinal disease. A new database collecting knowledge of ABCA4 structure may facilitate predictions about the possible functional consequences of gene mutations observed in clinical practice.Methods: In order to correlate structural and functional effects of the observed mutations, the structure of mouse P-glycoprotein was used as a template for homology modeling. The obtained structural information and genetic data are the basis of our relational database (ABCA4Database).Results: Sequence variability among all ABCA4-deposited entries was calculated and reported as Shannon entropy score at the residue level. The three-dimensional model of ABCA4 structure was used to locate the spatial distribution of the observed variable regions. Our predictions from structural in silico tools were able to accurately link the functional effects of mutations to phenotype. The development of the ABCA4Database gathers all the available genetic and structural information, yielding a global view of the molecular basis of some retinal diseases.Conclusions: ABCA4 modeled structure provides a molecular basis on which to analyze protein sequence mutations related to genetic retinal disease in order to predict the risk of retinal disease across all possible ABCA4 mutations. Additionally, our ABCA4 predicted structure is a good starting point for the creation of a new data analysis model, appropriate for precision medicine, in order to develop a deeper knowledge network of the disease and to improve the management of patients. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters#Amino Acid Sequence#Computer Simulation#DNA Mutational Analysis#Databases, Factual#Genetic Therapy#Humans#Models, Molecular#Molecular Conformation#Molecular Sequence Data#Mutation#Phenotype#Protein Folding#Protein Structure, Tertiary#Retinal Diseases'
b'Purpose: To characterize the clinical and biological properties of biodegradable collagen matrices (BCMs) for possible glaucoma drainage device implantation.Methods: A total of 68 refractory glaucoma eyes, followed up postoperatively for at least 6 months, were consecutively enrolled after retrospective chart review. The BCM-augmented Ahmed valve implantations (BAAVI) using our Ologen-6 and Ologen-7 valves were performed and compared with a conventional method. Complete surgical success was defined as an IOP of \xe2\x89\xa421 mm Hg (IOP 1) or \xe2\x89\xa417 mm Hg (IOP 2) without antiglaucoma medications. Qualified success was defined as an IOP \xe2\x89\xa421 mm Hg with or without antiglaucoma medications. The biological properties of each BCM were assessed by enzymatic degradation rates via collagenase under ocular physiological conditions.Results: The mean ages and preoperative IOPs were similar for the groups. In the conventional, BAAVI with Ologen-6, and BAAVI with Ologen-7 groups, complete success rates with target IOP 1 were 29.2%, 40.0%, and 66.7%; those with target IOP 2 were 12.5%, 30.0%, and 45.8%; qualified success rates were 45.8%, 55.0%, and 75.0%, respectively. The enzymatic degradation rate of Ologen-7 was significantly slower than that of Ologen-6 (12.5 \xc3\x97 10-3 vs. 28.8 \xc3\x97 10-3).Conclusions: The surgical success rate was highest in the Ologen-7 BAAVI group, with the lowest dependency on postoperative antiglaucoma medication use compared with the conventional and Ologen-6 BAAVI groups. The clinical results correlated with the different biological and physicochemical properties based on the degree of enzymatic degradation and on the structural morphology. labels: #Absorbable Implants#Collagen#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Glaucoma#Glaucoma Drainage Implants#Glycosaminoglycans#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Prosthesis Implantation#Retrospective Studies#Suture Techniques#Tonometry, Ocular#Treatment Outcome#Visual Acuity#Wound Healing'
b'Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine how the architecture of the lamina cribrosa (LC) microstructure, including the shape and size of the lamina pores, influences the IOP-induced deformation of the neural tissues within the LC pores using computational modeling.Methods: We built seven specimen-specific finite element models of LC microstructure with distinct nonlinear anisotropic properties for LC beams and neural tissues based on histological sections from three sheep eyes. Changes in shape (aspect ratio and convexity) and size (area and perimeter length) due to IOP-induced hoop stress were calculated for 128 LC pores. Multivariate linear regression was used to determine if pore shape and size were correlated with the strain in the pores. We also compared the microstructure models to a homogenized model built following previous approaches.Results: The LC microstructure resulted in focal tensile, compressive, and shear strains in the neural tissues of the LC that were not predicted by homogenized models. IOP-induced hoop stress caused pores to become larger and more convex; however, pore aspect ratio did not change consistently. Peak tensile strains within the pores were well predicted by a linear regression model considering the initial convexity (negative correlation, P<0.001), aspect ratio (positive correlation, P<0.01), and area (negative correlation, P<0.01). Significant correlations were also found when considering the deformed shape and size of the LC pores.Conclusions: The deformation of the LC neural tissues was largely dependent on the collagenous LC beams. Simple measures of LC pore shape and area provided good estimates of neural tissue biomechanical insult. labels: #Animals#Computer Simulation#Finite Element Analysis#Intraocular Pressure#Optic Disk#Optic Nerve#Sheep#Stress, Mechanical'
b"Purpose: To identify microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), using genetic data. MiRNAs are small noncoding RNAs that posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression. Genetic variants in miRNAs or miRNA-binding sites within gene 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTRs) are expected to affect miRNA function and contribute to disease risk.Methods: Data from the recent genome-wide association studies on intraocular pressure, vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR), cupa area and disc area were used to investigate the association of miRNAs with POAG endophenotypes. Putative targets of the associated miRNAs were studied according to their association with POAG and tested in cell line by transfection experiments for regulation by the miRNAs.Results: Of 411 miRNA variants, rs12803915:A/G in the terminal loop of pre-miR-612 and rs2273626:A/C in the seed sequence of miR-4707 were significantly associated with VCDR and cup area (P values<1.2 \xc3\x97 10-4). The first variant is demonstrated to increase the miR-612 expression. We showed that the second variant does not affect the miR-4707 biogenesis, but reduces the binding of miR-4707-3p to CARD10, a gene known to be involved in glaucoma. Moreover, of 72,052 miRNA-binding-site variants, 47 were significantly associated with four POAG endophenotypes (P value<6.9 \xc3\x97 10-6). Of these, we highlighted 10 variants that are more likely to affect miRNA-mediated gene regulation in POAG. These include rs3217992 and rs1063192, which have been shown experimentally to affect miR-138-3p- and miR-323b-5p-mediated regulation of CDKN2B.Conclusions: We identified a number of miRNAs that are associated with POAG endophenotypes. The identified miRNAs and their target genes are candidates for future studies on miRNA-related therapies for POAG. labels: #Base Sequence#Binding Sites#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#MicroRNAs#Molecular Sequence Data#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide"
b'Purpose: The murine double minute (MDM)2 is a critical negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor, and MDM2 SNP309G is associated with a higher risk of proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR); in addition, the MDM2 T309G created using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/associated endonuclease (Cas)9 enhances normal rabbit vitreous-induced expression of MDM2 and survival of primary human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells in vitro. The goal of this study was to determine whether this MDM2 T309G contributes to the development of experimental PVR.Methods: hRPE cells expressing MDM2 T309G or T309T only were treated with vitreous from human PVR donors (HV). The expression of MDM2 and p53 in the treated cells was examined by Western blot. The in vitro vitreous-induced cellular responses, such as contraction were assessed, and PVR was induced by intravitreal injection of the hRPE cells with MDM2 T309G or T309T only into rabbit eyes.Results: Western blot analyses indicated that treatment of hRPE cells with HV led to a significant increase (1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.2-fold) in the expression of MDM2 and a significant decrease in p53 in the cells expressing MDM2 T309G compared with those with MDM2 T309T. In addition, HV promoted contraction of the hRPE cells expressing MDM2 T309G significantly more than those with MDM2 T309T only. Furthermore, MDM2 T309G in the hRPE cells enhanced the development of PVR in a rabbit model.Conclusions: The MDM2 SNP309 in RPE cells enhances their potential of PVR pathogenesis. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cell Count#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Intravitreal Injections#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2#RNA, Messenger#Rabbits#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Vitreoretinopathy, Proliferative#Vitreous Body'
b'Purpose: The lens is a radiosensitive organ. Any dose of cephalic irradiation can give rise to radiation-induced cataracts. Contrary to other forms of radiotherapy, proton therapy (PT) can spare all or part of the lens due to accurate dose deposition. We investigated whether a lens-sparing approach was relevant to avoid cataracts in uveal melanoma patients.Methods: Patients were referred for PT from onco-ophthalmologists of private and academic institutions. Patients without preexisting cataracts or implants were entered in a prospective database. Dose thresholds responsible for cataracts were investigated in volumes of lens or lens periphery. Lens opacifications and de novo vision-impairing cataracts (VICs) had biannual follow up by ophthalmologists blinded to lens dose. Correlations between dose-volume relationships and VICs were assessed using univariate/multivariate regressions.Results: Between 1991 and 2015, 1696 uveal melanoma patients were consecutively treated with PT. After a median follow up of 48 months, 14.4% and 8.7% of patients had cataracts and VIC within median times of 19 and 28 months, respectively. Median values of mean lens and lens periphery doses were 1.1 (radiobiologically effective [RBE] dose in photon-equivalent grays [GyRBE]) and 6.5 GyRBE, respectively. The lens received no dose in 25% of the patients. At an irradiated lens volume of \xe2\x89\xa45%, there was no significantly increased risk for VIC below a dose of 10 GyRBE.Conclusions: A lens-sparing approach is feasible and results not only in reduced need for cataract surgery but also in better fundus-based tumor control. Reassessment of radioprotection rules for lens dose thresholds may follow. labels: #Cataract#Female#Humans#Incidence#Lens, Crystalline#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Proton Therapy#Radiation Injuries#Radiotherapy Dosage#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Uveal Neoplasms'
b'Purpose: Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults and approximately half of those diagnosed will die of metastasis. This study investigates whether UM progression is driven by a subpopulation of stem-like cells, termed "cancer stem cells" (CSCs).Methods: Expression of postulated stem cell markers aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), CD44, and CD133 was analyzed in UM cell lines and primary UM short-term cultures (STCs) established from tumor samples. Additionally, the notion of a "cellular hierarchy" within UM was investigated. Finally, the phenomenon of phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental factors was explored.Results: We demonstrate that expression of ALDH, CD44, and CD133 does not select for a subpopulation of stem-like cells in either UM cell lines or UM STCs. Furthermore, there is an absence of a cellular hierarchy in cell lines and all cells in culture are able to drive tumor progression. Last, we show that established UM cell lines and UM STCs are plastic in nature and switch their phenotype in response to environmental stimuli.Conclusions: We hypothesize that this capacity to undergo phenotypic plasticity may be a consequence of neural crest lineage and renders the exploration of the CSC hypothesis extremely challenging in UM. labels: #AC133 Antigen#Aldehyde Dehydrogenase#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Plasticity#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Hyaluronan Receptors#Melanoma#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Phenotype#Tumor Stem Cell Assay#Uveal Neoplasms'
b"Purpose: The photopic negative response (PhNR) is a slow negative component of a flash photopic full-field ERG that has been shown to be specific for retinal ganglion cell (RGC) activity. Direct evaluation of RGC function is desirable in patients with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) in which the loss of central acuity can make it difficult to monitor patients with standard metrics. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of PhNR as an objective noninvasive clinical metric in LHON.Methods: Full-field photopic ERG recordings were collected in subjects with the mt.11778G>A/ND4 LHON mutation using a red on blue stimulus. The PhNR was identified using a computer-based automated detection system, and data were manually examined to remove movement artifacts.Results: The PhNR amplitude was compared between controls (n = 13), carriers (n = 17), and affected (n = 6). Mean PhNR amplitude decreased significantly across groups (P<0.0001). Post hoc Tukey's test revealed a significant decrease in PhNR amplitude between carriers and controls (P<0.05) and between carriers and affected (P<0.01).Conclusions: We are able to demonstrate that the PhNR amplitude is significantly decreased in patients affected by LHON compared to carriers in a well-described pedigree. Surprisingly, there was also a decrease in PhNR in carriers, suggesting potential subclinical RGC dysfunction in some carriers. This is important in patients affected with LHON who typically have a dense central scotoma. The PhNR may be a useful objective outcome measure for future clinical trials. labels: #Adult#Color Vision#DNA Mutational Analysis#DNA, Mitochondrial#Electroretinography#Female#Heterozygote#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Optic Atrophy, Hereditary, Leber#Photic Stimulation#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Visual Acuity#Visual Fields"
b"See Legrain (doi:10.1093/awx188) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Some patients with complex regional pain syndrome report that movements of the affected limb are slow, more effortful, and lack automaticity. These symptoms have been likened to the syndrome that sometimes follows brain injury called hemispatial neglect, in which patients exhibit attentional impairments and problems with movements affecting the contralesional side of the body and space. Psychophysical testing of patients with complex regional pain syndrome has found evidence for spatial biases when judging visual targets distanced at 2 m, but not in directions that indicate reduced attention to the affected side. In contrast, when judging visual or tactile stimuli presented on their own body surface, or pictures of hands and feet within arm's reach, patients with complex regional pain syndrome exhibited a bias away from the affected side. What is not yet known is whether patients with complex regional pain syndrome only have biased attention for bodily-specific information in the space within arm's reach, or whether they also show a bias for information that is not associated with the body, suggesting a more generalized attention deficit. Using a temporal order judgement task, we found that patients with complex regional pain syndrome processed visual stimuli more slowly on the affected side (relative to the unaffected side) when the lights were projected onto a blank surface (i.e. when no bodily information was visible), and when the lights were projected onto the dorsal surfaces of their uncrossed hands. However, with the arms crossed (such that the left and right lights projected onto the right and left hands, respectively), patients' responses were no different than controls. These results provide the first demonstration of a generalized attention bias away from the affected side of space in complex regional pain syndrome patients that is not specifically related to bodily information. They also suggest a separate and additional bias of visual attention away from the affected hand. The strength of attention bias was predicted by scores on a self-report measure of body perception distortion; but not by pain intensity, time since diagnosis, or affected body side (left or right). At an individual level, those patients whose upper limbs were most affected had a higher incidence of inattention than those whose lower limbs were most affected. However, at a group level, affected limb (upper or lower) did not predict bias magnitude; nor did three measures designed to assess possible asymmetries in the distribution of movements across space. It is concluded that inattention in near space in complex regional pain syndrome may arise in parallel with a distorted perception of the body.10.1093/brain/awx152_video1awx152media15495542665001. labels: #Adult#Aged#Attentional Bias#Case-Control Studies#Complex Regional Pain Syndromes#Female#Functional Laterality#Humans#Judgment#Male#Middle Aged#Space Perception#Visual Perception#Young Adult"
b"Patients with Alzheimer's disease can present with different clinical phenotypes. Individuals with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (>65 years) typically present with medial temporal lobe neurodegeneration and predominantly amnestic symptomatology, while patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (<65 years) exhibit greater neocortical involvement associated with a clinical presentation including dyspraxia, executive dysfunction, or visuospatial impairment. We recruited 20 patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, 21 with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, three with prodromal early-onset Alzheimer's disease and 13 with prodromal late-onset Alzheimer's disease, as well as 30 cognitively healthy elderly controls, that had undergone 18F-AV-1451 tau positron emission tomography and structural magnetic resonance imaging to explore whether early- and late-onset Alzheimer's disease exhibit differential regional tau pathology and atrophy patterns. Strong associations of lower age at symptom onset with higher 18F-AV-1451 uptake were observed in several neocortical regions, while higher age did not yield positive associations in neither patient group. Comparing patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease with controls resulted in significantly higher 18F-AV-1451 retention throughout the neocortex, while comparing healthy controls with late-onset Alzheimer's disease patients yielded a distinct pattern of higher 18F-AV-1451 retention, predominantly confined to temporal lobe regions. When compared against each other, the early-onset Alzheimer's disease group exhibited greater uptake than the late-onset group in prefrontal and premotor, as well as in inferior parietal cortex. These preliminary findings indicate that age may constitute an important contributor to Alzheimer's disease heterogeneity highlighting the potential of tau positron emission tomography to capture phenotypic variation across patients with Alzheimer's disease. labels: #Age of Onset#Aged#Aging#Alzheimer Disease#Atrophy#Carbolines#Case-Control Studies#Cerebral Cortex#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroimaging#Positron-Emission Tomography#Prodromal Symptoms#Tauopathies#tau Proteins"
b'See Schiff (doi:10.1093/awx209) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury may recover consciousness before self-expression. Without behavioural evidence of consciousness at the bedside, clinicians may render an inaccurate prognosis, increasing the likelihood of withholding life-sustaining therapies or denying rehabilitative services. Task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography techniques have revealed covert consciousness in the chronic setting, but these techniques have not been tested in the intensive care unit. We prospectively enrolled 16 patients admitted to the intensive care unit for acute severe traumatic brain injury to test two hypotheses: (i) in patients who lack behavioural evidence of language expression and comprehension, functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography detect command-following during a motor imagery task (i.e. cognitive motor dissociation) and association cortex responses during language and music stimuli (i.e. higher-order cortex motor dissociation); and (ii) early responses to these paradigms are associated with better 6-month outcomes on the Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended. Patients underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging on post-injury Day 9.2 \xc2\xb1 5.0 and electroencephalography on Day 9.8 \xc2\xb1 4.6. At the time of imaging, behavioural evaluation with the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised indicated coma (n = 2), vegetative state (n = 3), minimally conscious state without language (n = 3), minimally conscious state with language (n = 4) or post-traumatic confusional state (n = 4). Cognitive motor dissociation was identified in four patients, including three whose behavioural diagnosis suggested a vegetative state. Higher-order cortex motor dissociation was identified in two additional patients. Complete absence of responses to language, music and motor imagery was only observed in coma patients. In patients with behavioural evidence of language function, responses to language and music were more frequently observed than responses to motor imagery (62.5-80% versus 33.3-42.9%). Similarly, in 16 matched healthy subjects, responses to language and music were more frequently observed than responses to motor imagery (87.5-100% versus 68.8-75.0%). Except for one patient who died in the intensive care unit, all patients with cognitive motor dissociation and higher-order cortex motor dissociation recovered beyond a confusional state by 6 months. However, 6-month outcomes were not associated with early functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography responses for the entire cohort. These observations suggest that functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography can detect command-following and higher-order cortical function in patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury. Early detection of covert consciousness and cortical responses in the intensive care unit could alter time-sensitive decisions about withholding life-sustaining therapies. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Case-Control Studies#Consciousness#Early Diagnosis#Electroencephalography#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Glasgow Outcome Scale#Humans#Imagination#Language#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Music#Persistent Vegetative State#Young Adult'
b"Individuals with schizophrenia typically suffer a range of cognitive deficits, including prominent deficits in working memory and executive function. These difficulties are strongly predictive of functional outcomes, but there is a paucity of effective therapeutic interventions targeting these deficits. Transcranial direct current stimulation is a novel neuromodulatory technique with emerging evidence of potential pro-cognitive effects; however, there is limited understanding of its mechanism. This was a double-blind randomized sham controlled pilot study of transcranial direct current stimulation on a working memory (n-back) and executive function (Stroop) task in 28 individuals with schizophrenia using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Study participants received 30 min of real or sham transcranial direct current stimulation applied to the left frontal cortex. The 'real' and 'sham' groups did not differ in online working memory task performance, but the transcranial direct current stimulation group demonstrated significant improvement in performance at 24 h post-transcranial direct current stimulation. Transcranial direct current stimulation was associated with increased activation in the medial frontal cortex beneath the anode; showing a positive correlation with consolidated working memory performance 24 h post-stimulation. There was reduced activation in the left cerebellum in the transcranial direct current stimulation group, with no change in the middle frontal gyrus or parietal cortices. Improved performance on the executive function task was associated with reduced activity in the anterior cingulate cortex. Transcranial direct current stimulation modulated functional activation in local task-related regions, and in more distal nodes in the network. Transcranial direct current stimulation offers a potential novel approach to altering frontal cortical activity and exerting pro-cognitive effects in schizophrenia. labels: #Adult#Cerebellum#Double-Blind Method#Executive Function#Female#Frontal Lobe#Gyrus Cinguli#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Memory, Short-Term#Pilot Projects#Psychomotor Performance#Schizophrenia#Schizophrenic Psychology#Thinking#Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation#Young Adult"
b"See Jellinger (doi:10.1093/awx190) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89The enzyme monoamine oxidases (B and A subtypes, encoded by MAOB and MAOA, respectively) are drug targets in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Inhibitors of MAOB are used clinically in Parkinson's disease for symptomatic purposes whereas the potential disease-modifying effect of monoamine oxidase inhibitors is debated. As astroglial cells express high levels of MAOB, the enzyme has been proposed as a brain imaging marker of astrogliosis, a cellular process possibly involved in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis as elevation of MAOB in astrocytes might be harmful. Since brain monoamine oxidase status in Parkinson's disease is uncertain, our objective was to measure, by quantitative immunoblotting in autopsied brain homogenates, protein levels of both monoamine oxidases in three different degenerative parkinsonian disorders: Parkinson's disease (n = 11), multiple system atrophy (n = 11), and progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 16) and in matched controls (n = 16). We hypothesized that if MAOB is 'substantially' localized to astroglial cells, MAOB levels should be generally associated with standard astroglial protein measures (e.g. glial fibrillary acidic protein). MAOB levels were increased in degenerating putamen (+83%) and substantia nigra (+10%, non-significant) in multiple system atrophy; in caudate (+26%), putamen (+27%), frontal cortex (+31%) and substantia nigra (+23%) of progressive supranuclear palsy; and in frontal cortex (+33%), but not in substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease, a region we previously reported no increase in astrocyte protein markers. Although the magnitude of MAOB increase was less than those of standard astrocytic markers, significant positive correlations were observed amongst the astrocyte proteins and MAOB. Despite suggestions that MAOA (versus MAOB) is primarily responsible for metabolism of dopamine in dopamine neurons, there was no loss of the enzyme in the parkinsonian substantia nigra; instead, increased nigral levels of a MAOA fragment and 'turnover' of the enzyme were observed in the conditions. Our findings provide support that MAOB might serve as a biochemical imaging marker, albeit not entirely specific, for astrocyte activation in human brain. The observation that MAOB protein concentration is generally increased in degenerating brain areas in multiple system atrophy (especially putamen) and in progressive supranuclear palsy, but not in the nigra in Parkinson's disease, also distinguishes astrocyte behaviour in Parkinson's disease from that in the two 'Parkinson-plus' conditions. The question remains whether suppression of either MAOB in astrocytes or MAOA in dopamine neurons might influence progression of the parkinsonian disorders. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Caudate Nucleus#Dopamine#Female#Frontal Lobe#Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein#Humans#Isoenzymes#Male#Middle Aged#Monoamine Oxidase#Multiple System Atrophy#Nerve Degeneration#Parkinson Disease#Peptide Fragments#Phosphopyruvate Hydratase#Putamen#Substantia Nigra#Supranuclear Palsy, Progressive#Tubulin#Young Adult#alpha-Synuclein"
b'Auditory word comprehension is a cognitive process that involves the transformation of auditory signals into abstract concepts. Traditional lesion-based studies of stroke survivors with aphasia have suggested that neocortical regions adjacent to auditory cortex are primarily responsible for word comprehension. However, recent primary progressive aphasia and normal neurophysiological studies have challenged this concept, suggesting that the left temporal pole is crucial for word comprehension. Due to its vasculature, the temporal pole is not commonly completely lesioned in stroke survivors and this heterogeneity may have prevented its identification in lesion-based studies of auditory comprehension. We aimed to resolve this controversy using a combined voxel-based-and structural connectome-lesion symptom mapping approach, since cortical dysfunction after stroke can arise from cortical damage or from white matter disconnection. Magnetic resonance imaging (T1-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging-based structural connectome), auditory word comprehension and object recognition tests were obtained from 67 chronic left hemisphere stroke survivors. We observed that damage to the inferior temporal gyrus, to the fusiform gyrus and to a white matter network including the left posterior temporal region and its connections to the middle temporal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, and cingulate cortex, was associated with word comprehension difficulties after factoring out object recognition. These results suggest that the posterior lateral and inferior temporal regions are crucial for word comprehension, serving as a hub to integrate auditory and conceptual processing. Early processing linking auditory words to concepts is situated in posterior lateral temporal regions, whereas additional and deeper levels of semantic processing likely require more anterior temporal regions.10.1093/brain/awx169_video1awx169media15555638084001. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Brain Mapping#Comprehension#Connectome#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuropsychological Tests#Pattern Recognition, Physiological#Speech#Speech Perception#Stroke#Temporal Lobe#White Matter'
b'Timely initiation of effective therapy is crucial for preventing disability in multiple sclerosis; however, treatment response varies greatly among patients. Comprehensive predictive models of individual treatment response are lacking. Our aims were: (i) to develop predictive algorithms for individual treatment response using demographic, clinical and paraclinical predictors in patients with multiple sclerosis; and (ii) to evaluate accuracy, and internal and external validity of these algorithms. This study evaluated 27 demographic, clinical and paraclinical predictors of individual response to seven disease-modifying therapies in MSBase, a large global cohort study. Treatment response was analysed separately for disability progression, disability regression, relapse frequency, conversion to secondary progressive disease, change in the cumulative disease burden, and the probability of treatment discontinuation. Multivariable survival and generalized linear models were used, together with the principal component analysis to reduce model dimensionality and prevent overparameterization. Accuracy of the individual prediction was tested and its internal validity was evaluated in a separate, non-overlapping cohort. External validity was evaluated in a geographically distinct cohort, the Swedish Multiple Sclerosis Registry. In the training cohort (n = 8513), the most prominent modifiers of treatment response comprised age, disease duration, disease course, previous relapse activity, disability, predominant relapse phenotype and previous therapy. Importantly, the magnitude and direction of the associations varied among therapies and disease outcomes. Higher probability of disability progression during treatment with injectable therapies was predominantly associated with a greater disability at treatment start and the previous therapy. For fingolimod, natalizumab or mitoxantrone, it was mainly associated with lower pretreatment relapse activity. The probability of disability regression was predominantly associated with pre-baseline disability, therapy and relapse activity. Relapse incidence was associated with pretreatment relapse activity, age and relapsing disease course, with the strength of these associations varying among therapies. Accuracy and internal validity (n = 1196) of the resulting predictive models was high (>80%) for relapse incidence during the first year and for disability outcomes, moderate for relapse incidence in Years 2-4 and for the change in the cumulative disease burden, and low for conversion to secondary progressive disease and treatment discontinuation. External validation showed similar results, demonstrating high external validity for disability and relapse outcomes, moderate external validity for cumulative disease burden and low external validity for conversion to secondary progressive disease and treatment discontinuation. We conclude that demographic, clinical and paraclinical information helps predict individual response to disease-modifying therapies at the time of their commencement. labels: #Adult#Algorithms#Databases, Factual#Demography#Disability Evaluation#Disease Progression#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Male#Multiple Sclerosis#Precision Medicine#Prognosis#Recurrence#Reproducibility of Results#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'See Lenck-Santini (doi:10.1093/awx205) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Epileptic seizures represent altered neuronal network dynamics, but the temporal evolution and cellular substrates of the neuronal activity patterns associated with spontaneous seizures are not fully understood. We used simultaneous recordings from multiple neurons in the hippocampus and neocortex of rats with chronic temporal lobe epilepsy to demonstrate that subsets of cells discharge in a highly stereotypical sequential pattern during ictal events, and that these stereotypical patterns were reproducible across consecutive seizures. In contrast to the canonical view that principal cell discharges dominate ictal events, the ictal sequences were predominantly composed of fast-spiking, putative inhibitory neurons, which displayed unusually strong coupling to local field potential even before seizures. The temporal evolution of activity was characterized by unique dynamics where the most correlated neuronal pairs before seizure onset displayed the largest increases in correlation strength during the seizures. These results demonstrate the selective involvement of fast spiking interneurons in structured temporal sequences during spontaneous ictal events in hippocampal and neocortical circuits in experimental models of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy. labels: #Animals#Chronic Disease#Epilepsy, Temporal Lobe#Hippocampus#Interneurons#Male#Neocortex#Rats#Seizures#Temporal Lobe'
b"There are very few case series of patients with acute psychogenic memory loss (also known as dissociative/functional amnesia), and still fewer studies of outcome, or comparisons with neurological memory-disordered patients. Consequently, the literature on psychogenic amnesia is somewhat fragmented and offers little prognostic value for individual patients. In the present study, we reviewed the case records and neuropsychological findings in 53 psychogenic amnesia cases (ratio of 3:1, males:females), in comparison with 21 consecutively recruited neurological memory-disordered patients and 14 healthy control subjects. In particular, we examined the pattern of retrograde amnesia on an assessment of autobiographical memory (the Autobiographical Memory Interview). We found that our patients with psychogenic memory loss fell into four distinct groups, which we categorized as: (i) fugue state; (ii) fugue-to-focal retrograde amnesia; (iii) psychogenic focal retrograde amnesia following a minor neurological episode; and (iv) patients with gaps in their memories. While neurological cases were characterized by relevant neurological symptoms, a history of a past head injury was actually more common in our psychogenic cases (P = 0.012), perhaps reflecting a 'learning episode' predisposing to later psychological amnesia. As anticipated, loss of the sense of personal identity was confined to the psychogenic group. However, clinical depression, family/relationship problems, financial/employment problems, and failure to recognize the family were also statistically more common in that group. The pattern of autobiographical memory loss differed between the psychogenic groups: fugue cases showed a severe and uniform loss of memories for both facts and events across all time periods, whereas the two focal retrograde amnesia groups showed a 'reversed' temporal gradient with relative sparing of recent memories. After 3-6 months, the fugue patients had improved to normal scores for facts and near-normal scores for events. By contrast, the two focal retrograde amnesia groups showed less improvement and continued to show a reversed temporal gradient. In conclusion, the outcome in psychogenic amnesia, particularly those characterized by fugue, is better than generally supposed. Findings are interpreted in terms of Markowitsch's and Kopelman's models of psychogenic amnesia, and with respect to Anderson's neuroimaging findings in memory inhibition. labels: #Adult#Aged#Amnesia#Amnesia, Retrograde#Craniocerebral Trauma#Depression#Family Conflict#Female#Humans#London#Male#Memory, Episodic#Middle Aged#Neuropsychological Tests#Self Concept#Young Adult"
b'Recently, de novo mutations in the gene KCNA2, causing either a dominant-negative loss-of-function or a gain-of-function of the voltage-gated K+ channel Kv1.2, were described to cause a new molecular entity within the epileptic encephalopathies. Here, we report a cohort of 23 patients (eight previously described) with epileptic encephalopathy carrying either novel or known KCNA2 mutations, with the aim to detail the clinical phenotype associated with each of them, to characterize the functional effects of the newly identified mutations, and to assess genotype-phenotype associations. We identified five novel and confirmed six known mutations, three of which recurred in three, five and seven patients, respectively. Ten mutations were missense and one was a truncation mutation; de novo occurrence could be shown in 20 patients. Functional studies using a Xenopus oocyte two-microelectrode voltage clamp system revealed mutations with only loss-of-function effects (mostly dominant-negative current amplitude reduction) in eight patients or only gain-of-function effects (hyperpolarizing shift of voltage-dependent activation, increased amplitude) in nine patients. In six patients, the gain-of-function was diminished by an additional loss-of-function (gain-and loss-of-function) due to a hyperpolarizing shift of voltage-dependent activation combined with either decreased amplitudes or an additional hyperpolarizing shift of the inactivation curve. These electrophysiological findings correlated with distinct phenotypic features. The main differences were (i) predominant focal (loss-of-function) versus generalized (gain-of-function) seizures and corresponding epileptic discharges with prominent sleep activation in most cases with loss-of-function mutations; (ii) more severe epilepsy, developmental problems and ataxia, and atrophy of the cerebellum or even the whole brain in about half of the patients with gain-of-function mutations; and (iii) most severe early-onset phenotypes, occasionally with neonatal onset epilepsy and developmental impairment, as well as generalized and focal seizures and EEG abnormalities for patients with gain- and loss-of-function mutations. Our study thus indicates well represented genotype-phenotype associations between three subgroups of patients with KCNA2 encephalopathy according to the electrophysiological features of the mutations. labels: #Animals#Brain Diseases#Epilepsy#Genetic Association Studies#Kv1.2 Potassium Channel#Mutation#Oocytes#Phenotype#Xenopus'
b"Auditory verbal hallucinations (hearing voices) are typically associated with psychosis, but a minority of the general population also experience them frequently and without distress. Such 'non-clinical' experiences offer a rare and unique opportunity to study hallucinations apart from confounding clinical factors, thus allowing for the identification of symptom-specific mechanisms. Recent theories propose that hallucinations result from an imbalance of prior expectation and sensory information, but whether such an imbalance also influences auditory-perceptual processes remains unknown. We examine for the first time the cortical processing of ambiguous speech in people without psychosis who regularly hear voices. Twelve non-clinical voice-hearers and 17 matched controls completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging scan while passively listening to degraded speech ('sine-wave' speech), that was either potentially intelligible or unintelligible. Voice-hearers reported recognizing the presence of speech in the stimuli before controls, and before being explicitly informed of its intelligibility. Across both groups, intelligible sine-wave speech engaged a typical left-lateralized speech processing network. Notably, however, voice-hearers showed stronger intelligibility responses than controls in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and in the superior frontal gyrus. This suggests an enhanced involvement of attention and sensorimotor processes, selectively when speech was potentially intelligible. Altogether, these behavioural and neural findings indicate that people with hallucinatory experiences show distinct responses to meaningful auditory stimuli. A greater weighting towards prior knowledge and expectation might cause non-veridical auditory sensations in these individuals, but it might also spontaneously facilitate perceptual processing where such knowledge is required. This has implications for the understanding of hallucinations in clinical and non-clinical populations, and is consistent with current 'predictive processing' theories of psychosis. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Adult#Auditory Perception#Case-Control Studies#Female#Gyrus Cinguli#Hallucinations#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Prefrontal Cortex#Uncertainty#Young Adult"
b'A continuous isoelectric electroencephalogram reflects an interruption of endogenously-generated activity in cortical networks and systematically results in a complete dissolution of conscious processes. This electro-cerebral inactivity occurs during various brain disorders, including hypothermia, drug intoxication, long-lasting anoxia and brain trauma. It can also be induced in a therapeutic context, following the administration of high doses of barbiturate-derived compounds, to interrupt a hyper-refractory status epilepticus. Although altered sensory responses can be occasionally observed on an isoelectric electroencephalogram, the electrical membrane properties and synaptic responses of individual neurons during this cerebral state remain largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to characterize the intracellular correlates of a barbiturate-induced isoelectric electroencephalogram and to analyse the sensory-evoked synaptic responses that can emerge from a brain deprived of spontaneous electrical activity. We first examined the sensory responsiveness from patients suffering from intractable status epilepticus and treated by administration of thiopental. Multimodal sensory responses could be evoked on the flat electroencephalogram, including visually-evoked potentials that were significantly amplified and delayed, with a high trial-to-trial reproducibility compared to awake healthy subjects. Using an analogous pharmacological procedure to induce prolonged electro-cerebral inactivity in the rat, we could describe its cortical and subcortical intracellular counterparts. Neocortical, hippocampal and thalamo-cortical neurons were all silent during the isoelectric state and displayed a flat membrane potential significantly hyperpolarized compared with spontaneously active control states. Nonetheless, all recorded neurons could fire action potentials in response to intracellularly injected depolarizing current pulses and their specific intrinsic electrophysiological features were preserved. Manipulations of the membrane potential and intracellular injection of chloride in neocortical neurons failed to reveal an augmented synaptic inhibition during the isoelectric condition. Consistent with the sensory responses recorded from comatose patients, large and highly reproducible somatosensory-evoked potentials could be generated on the inactive electrocorticogram in rats. Intracellular recordings revealed that the underlying neocortical pyramidal cells responded to sensory stimuli by complex synaptic potentials able to trigger action potentials. As in patients, sensory responses in the isoelectric state were delayed compared to control responses and exhibited an elevated reliability during repeated stimuli. Our findings demonstrate that during prolonged isoelectric brain state neurons and synaptic networks are dormant rather than excessively inhibited, conserving their intrinsic properties and their ability to integrate and propagate environmental stimuli. labels: #Action Potentials#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Animals#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cerebral Cortex#Electric Stimulation#Electroencephalography#Evoked Potentials#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neural Pathways#Neurons#Pyramidal Cells#Rats#Status Epilepticus#Thiopental#Unconsciousness#Young Adult'
b'Mexiletine is the only drug with proven effect for treatment of non-dystrophic myotonia, but mexiletine is expensive, has limited availability and several side effects. There is therefore a need to identify other pharmacological compounds that can alleviate myotonia in non-dystrophic myotonias. Like mexiletine, lamotrigine is a sodium channel blocker, but unlike mexiletine, lamotrigine is available, inexpensive, and well tolerated. We investigated the potential of using lamotrigine for treatment of myotonia in patients with non-dystrophic myotonias. In this, randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period cross-over study, we included adult outpatients recruited from all of Denmark with clinical myotonia and genetically confirmed myotonia congenita and paramyotonia congenita for investigation at the Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center. A pharmacy produced the medication and placebo, and randomized patients in blocks of 10. Participants and investigators were all blinded to treatment until the end of the trial. In two 8-week periods, oral lamotrigine or placebo capsules were provided once daily, with increasing doses (from 25 mg, 50 mg, 150 mg to 300 mg) every second week. The primary outcome was a severity score of myotonia, the Myotonic Behaviour Scale ranging from asymptomatic (score 1) to invalidating myotonia (score 6), reported by the participants during Weeks 0 and 8 in each treatment period. Clinical myotonia was also measured and side effects were monitored. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02159963) and EudraCT (2013-003309-24). We included 26 patients (10 females, 16 males, age: 19-74 years) from 13 November 2013 to 6 July 2015. Twenty-two completed the entire study. One patient withdrew due to an allergic reaction to lamotrigine. Three patients withdrew for reasons not related to the trial intervention. The Myotonic Behaviour Scale at baseline was 3.2 \xc2\xb1 1.1, which changed after treatment with lamotrigine by 1.3 \xc2\xb1 0.2 scores (P<0.001), but not with placebo (0.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 scores, P = 0.4). The estimated effect size was 1.0 \xc2\xb1 0.2 (95% confidence interval = 0.5-1.5, P<0.001, n = 22). The standardized effect size of lamotrigine was 1.5 (confidence interval: 1.2-1.8). Number needed to treat was 2.6 (P = 0.006, n = 26). No adverse or unsuspected event occurred. Common side effects occurred in both treatment groups; number needed to harm was 5.2 (P = 0.11, n = 26). Lamotrigine effectively reduced myotonia, emphasized by consistency between effects on patient-related outcomes and objective outcomes. The frequency of side effects was acceptable. Considering this and the high availability and low cost of the drug, we suggest that lamotrigine should be used as the first line of treatment for myotonia in treatment-naive patients with non-dystrophic myotonias. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cross-Over Studies#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myotonia Congenita#Myotonic Disorders#Treatment Outcome#Triazines#Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel Blockers#Young Adult'
b"Chronic lymphocytic inflammation with pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids (CLIPPERS) is a central nervous system inflammatory syndrome predominantly affecting the brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord. Following its initial description, the salient features of CLIPPERS have been confirmed and expanded upon, but the lack of formalized diagnostic criteria has led to reports of patients with dissimilar features purported to have CLIPPERS. We evaluated clinical, radiological and pathological features of patients referred for suspected CLIPPERS and propose diagnostic criteria to discriminate CLIPPERS from non-CLIPPERS aetiologies. Thirty-five patients were evaluated for suspected CLIPPERS. Clinical and neuroimaging data were reviewed by three neurologists to confirm CLIPPERS by consensus agreement. Neuroimaging and neuropathology were reviewed by experienced neuroradiologists and neuropathologists, respectively, both of whom were blinded to the clinical data. CLIPPERS was diagnosed in 23 patients (18 male and five female) and 12 patients had a non-CLIPPERS diagnosis. CLIPPERS patients' median age of onset was 58 years (interquartile range, 24-72) and were followed a median of 44 months (interquartile range 38-63). Non-CLIPPERS patients' median age of onset was 52 years (interquartile range, 39-59) and were followed a median of 27 months (interquartile range, 14-47). Clinical symptoms of gait ataxia, diplopia, cognitive impairment, and facial paraesthesia did not discriminate CLIPPERS from non-CLIPPERS. Marked clinical and radiological corticosteroid responsiveness was observed in CLIPPERS (23/23), and clinical worsening occurred in all 12 CLIPPERS cases when corticosteroids were discontinued. Corticosteroid responsiveness was common but not universal in non-CLIPPERS [clinical improvement (8/12); radiological improvement (2/12); clinical worsening on discontinuation (3/8)]. CLIPPERS patients had brainstem predominant perivascular gadolinium enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging that were discriminated from non-CLIPPERS by: homogenous gadolinium enhancing nodules<3 mm in diameter without ring-enhancement or mass effect, and homogenous T2 signal abnormality not significantly exceeding the T1 enhancement. Brain neuropathology on 14 CLIPPERS cases demonstrated marked CD3-positive T-lymphocyte, mild B-lymphocyte and moderate macrophage infiltrates, with perivascular predominance as well as diffuse parenchymal infiltration (14/14), present in meninges, white and grey matter, associated with variable tissue destruction, astrogliosis and secondary myelin loss. Clinical, radiological and pathological feature define CLIPPERS syndrome and are differentiated from non-CLIPPERS aetiologies by neuroradiological and neuropathological findings. labels: #Adrenal Cortex Hormones#Adult#Age of Onset#Aged#Encephalitis#Female#Gadolinium#Humans#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'De novo in-frame deletions and duplications in the SPTAN1 gene, encoding the non-erythrocyte \xce\xb1II spectrin, have been associated with severe West syndrome with hypomyelination and pontocerebellar atrophy. We aimed at comprehensively delineating the phenotypic spectrum associated with SPTAN1 mutations. Using different molecular genetic techniques, we identified 20 patients with a pathogenic or likely pathogenic SPTAN1 variant and reviewed their clinical, genetic and imaging data. SPTAN1 de novo alterations included seven unique missense variants and nine in-frame deletions/duplications of which 12 were novel. The recurrent three-amino acid duplication p.(Asp2303_Leu2305dup) occurred in five patients. Our patient cohort exhibited a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes, comprising six patients with mild to moderate intellectual disability, with or without epilepsy and behavioural disorders, and 14 patients with infantile epileptic encephalopathy, of which 13 had severe neurodevelopmental impairment and four died in early childhood. Imaging studies suggested that the severity of neurological impairment and epilepsy correlates with that of structural abnormalities as well as the mutation type and location. Out of seven patients harbouring mutations outside the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimerization domain, four had normal brain imaging and three exhibited moderately progressive brain and/or cerebellar atrophy. Twelve of 13 patients with mutations located within the spectrin heterodimer contact site exhibited severe and progressive brain, brainstem and cerebellar atrophy, with hypomyelination in most. We used fibroblasts from five patients to study spectrin aggregate formation by Triton-X extraction and immunocytochemistry followed by fluorescence microscopy. \xce\xb1II/\xce\xb2II aggregates and \xce\xb1II spectrin in the insoluble protein fraction were observed in fibroblasts derived from patients with the mutations p.(Glu2207del), p.(Asp2303_Leu2305dup) and p.(Arg2308_Met2309dup), all falling in the nucleation site of the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimer region. Molecular modelling of the seven SPTAN1 amino acid changes provided preliminary evidence for structural alterations of the A-, B- and/or C-helices within each of the mutated spectrin repeats. We conclude that SPTAN1-related disorders comprise a wide spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes ranging from mild to severe and progressive. Spectrin aggregate formation in fibroblasts with mutations in the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 heterodimerization domain seems to be associated with a severe neurodegenerative course and suggests that the amino acid stretch from Asp2303 to Met2309 in the \xce\xb120 repeat is important for \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimer formation and/or \xce\xb1II spectrin function. labels: #Adolescent#Atrophy#Brain#Brain Diseases#Carrier Proteins#Cells, Cultured#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Progression#Epilepsy#Female#Fibroblasts#Humans#Male#Microfilament Proteins#Models, Molecular#Mutation#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Phenotype#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#Young Adult'
b"The mitochondrial proteins TRAP1 and HTRA2 have previously been shown to be phosphorylated in the presence of the Parkinson's disease kinase PINK1 but the downstream signalling is unknown. HTRA2 and PINK1 loss of function causes parkinsonism in humans and animals. Here, we identified TRAP1 as an interactor of HTRA2 using an unbiased mass spectrometry approach. In our human cell models, TRAP1 overexpression is protective, rescuing HTRA2 and PINK1-associated mitochondrial dysfunction and suggesting that TRAP1 acts downstream of HTRA2 and PINK1. HTRA2 regulates TRAP1 protein levels, but TRAP1 is not a direct target of HTRA2 protease activity. Following genetic screening of Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls, we also report the first TRAP1 mutation leading to complete loss of functional protein in a patient with late onset Parkinson's disease. Analysis of fibroblasts derived from the patient reveal that oxygen consumption, ATP output and reactive oxygen species are increased compared to healthy individuals. This is coupled with an increased pool of free NADH, increased mitochondrial biogenesis, triggering of the mitochondrial unfolded protein response, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and sensitivity to mitochondrial removal and apoptosis. These data highlight the role of TRAP1 in the regulation of energy metabolism and mitochondrial quality control. Interestingly, the diabetes drug metformin reverses mutation-associated alterations on energy metabolism, mitochondrial biogenesis and restores mitochondrial membrane potential. In summary, our data show that TRAP1 acts downstream of PINK1 and HTRA2 for mitochondrial fine tuning, whereas TRAP1 loss of function leads to reduced control of energy metabolism, ultimately impacting mitochondrial membrane potential. These findings offer new insight into mitochondrial pathologies in Parkinson's disease and provide new prospects for targeted therapies. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Apoptosis#Case-Control Studies#Cells, Cultured#Fibroblasts#HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins#High-Temperature Requirement A Serine Peptidase 2#Humans#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Metformin#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Mutation#NAD#Organelle Biogenesis#Oxygen Consumption#Parkinson Disease#Protein Kinases#Reactive Oxygen Species#Serine Endopeptidases"
b'BACKGROUND: Recently, 2 randomized controlled trials showed that the instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR), a resting\xc2\xa0coronary physiological index, is noninferior to fractional flow reserve for guiding revascularization. The resting distal to aortic coronary pressure (Pd/Pa) measured at rest is another adenosine-free index widely available in the cardiac catheterization laboratory; however, little is known about the agreement of Pd/Pausing iFR as a reference standard.OBJECTIVES: The goal of this study was to investigate the agreement of Pd/Pawith iFR.METHODS: A total of 763 patients were prospectively enrolled from 12 institutions. iFR and Pd/Pawere measured under resting conditions. Using iFR\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa40.89 as a reference standard, the agreement of Pd/Paand its best cutoff value were assessed.RESULTS: According to the independent core laboratory analysis, iFR and Pd/Pawere analyzable in 627 and 733 patients (82.2% vs. 96.1%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), respectively. The median iFR and Pd/Pawere 0.90 (interquartile range: 0.85 to 0.94) and\xc2\xa00.92 (interquartile range: 0.88 to 0.95), and the 2 indices were highly correlated (R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.93; p\xc2\xa0<0.001; iFR\xc2\xa0= 1.31 *\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa-0.31). According to the receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis, Pd/Pashowed excellent agreement (area\xc2\xa0under the curve:\xc2\xa00.98; 95% confidence interval: 0.97 to 0.99; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) with a best cutoff value of Pd/Pa\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa40.91. The diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 93.0%, 91.4%, 94.4%, 93.3%, and 92.7%, respectively. These results were similar in patients with acute coronary syndrome and stable angina.CONCLUSIONS: Pd/Pawas analyzable in a significantly higher number of patients than iFR. Pd/Pashowed excellent agreement with iFR, suggesting that it could be applied clinically in a similar fashion. (Can Contrast Injection Better Approximate FFR Compared to Pure Resting Physiology? [CONTRAST]; NCT02184117). labels: #Aged#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Determination#Coronary Circulation#Coronary Vessels#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Reference Standards'
b'BACKGROUND: Instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) has been used in clinical practice to identify functionally significant\xc2\xa0stenosis and to guide treatment strategy. However, there are limited clinical data regarding another resting pressure-derived index, resting distal to aortic coronary pressure (Pd/Pa), and similarities and differences between resting\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa and iFR.OBJECTIVES: The authors investigated the changes in resting Pd/Pa and iFR according to anatomic and hemodynamic stenosis severity and their prognostic implications.METHODS: From the 3V FFR-FRIENDS (Clinical Implication of 3-vessel Fractional Flow Reserve) and the IRIS-FFR (Study\xc2\xa0of the Natural History of FFR Guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention) studies, 1,024 vessels (n = 435) with\xc2\xa0available pre-intervention resting Pd/Pa and iFR were used to explore the changes in resting physiological indices\xc2\xa0according to percent diameter stenosis. Among 115 patients who underwent13N-ammonia positron emission tomography, the changes in those indices according to basal and hyperemic stenosis resistance and absolute hyperemic myocardial\xc2\xa0blood flow were compared. The association between physiological indices and the risk of 2-year major adverse cardiac events (MACE) (a composite of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, and ischemia-driven revascularization) were analyzed among 375 deferred patients.RESULTS: There was a significant linear correlation between resting Pd/Pa and iFR (R\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.970; p\xc2\xa0<0.001, iFR\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.370\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 resting Pd/Pa\xc2\xa0- 0.370). Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR changed significantly according to percent diameter stenosis, basal\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0hyperemic stenosis resistance, and hyperemic absolute myocardial blood flow (all p values\xc2\xa0<0.001). Percent difference of\xc2\xa0iFR according to the increase in anatomic and hemodynamic severity was higher than that of resting Pd/Pa. Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR showed a significant association with the risk of 2-year MACE (resting Pd/Pa hazard ratio [per\xc2\xa00.10\xc2\xa0increase]:\xc2\xa00.480; 95% confidence interval: 0.250 to 0.923; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.027; iFR hazard ratio [per 0.1 increase]: 0.586;\xc2\xa095%\xc2\xa0confidence interval: 0.373 to 0.919; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.020) in deferred patients. However, the difference between the upper- and lower-bound estimated MACE rates according to the approximate measurement variability of each index was significantly higher with resting Pd/Pa compared with iFR (resting Pd/Pa 3.85 \xc2\xb1 4.00% and iFR 3.27 \xc2\xb1 3.39%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR showed similar associations with anatomic and hemodynamic stenosis severity and the risk of MACE. However, iFR was more sensitive to the difference in stenosis severity and showed a\xc2\xa0lower\xc2\xa0maximum difference in estimated MACE risk influenced by the measurement variability compared with resting\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa. (Clinical Implication of 3-Vessel Fractional Flow Reserve [3V FFR-FRIENDS]; NCT01621438; and\xc2\xa0Study\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0the\xc2\xa0Natural History of FFR Guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention [IRIS-FFR]; NCT01366404). labels: #Angina, Stable#Aorta, Thoracic#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Stenosis#Coronary Vessels#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fractional Flow Reserve, Myocardial#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Positron-Emission Tomography#Severity of Illness Index'
b'BACKGROUND: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) binds low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), preventing its recycling. PCSK9 is a risk predictor and a biotarget in atherosclerosis progression.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine whether the PCSK9-LDLR axis could predict risk in patients with heart failure (HF).METHODS: The BIOSTAT-CHF (Biology Study to Tailored Treatment in Chronic Heart Failure) is a multicenter, multinational, prospective, observational study that included patients with worsening HF signs and/or symptoms. The primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and the composite of mortality or unscheduled hospitalizations for HF. We implemented Cox proportional hazard regression to determine the simultaneously adjusted effect of PCSK9 and LDLR on both outcomes when added to the previously validated BIOSTAT-CHF risk scores.RESULTS: This study included 2,174 patients (mean age: 68 \xc2\xb1 12 years; 53.2% had a history of ischemic heart disease). Median (interquartile range) PCSK9 and LDLR levels were 1.81\xc2\xa0U/ml (1.45 to 2.18) and 2.98\xc2\xa0U/ml (2.45 to 3.53), respectively. During follow-up, 569 deaths (26.2%) and 896 (41.2%) composite endpoints were ascertained. A multivariable analysis, which included BIOSTAT-CHF risk scores, LDLR, and statin treatment as covariates, revealed a positive linear association between PCSK9 levels and the risk of mortality (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.24; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04 to 1.49; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.020) and the composite endpoint (HR: 1.21; 95% CI: 1.05 to 1.40; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.010). A similar analysis for LDLR revealed a negative association with mortality (HR: 0.86; 95% CI: 0.76 to 0.98; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.025) and the composite endpoint (HR: 0.92; 95% CI: 0.83 to 1.01; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.087). Including PCSK9 and LDLR improved risk score performance.CONCLUSIONS: The PCSK9-LDLR axis was associated with outcomes in patients with HF. Future studies must\xc2\xa0assess whether PCSK9 inhibition will result in better outcomes in HF. labels: #Aged#Forecasting#Heart Failure#Humans#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Proportional Hazards Models#Proprotein Convertase 9#Prospective Studies#Receptors, LDL#Risk'
b'BACKGROUND: Sustained sympathetic activation contributes to the progression of myocardial cell injury, cardiac fibrosis, and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in heart failure (HF).OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the effects of radiofrequency renal nerve denervation (RF-RDN) on the pathobiology of HF and the interaction between the renal sympathetic nerves and natriuretic peptide (NP) metabolism.METHODS: Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were subjected to 45\xc2\xa0min of coronary artery ligation and reperfusion for 12\xc2\xa0weeks. At 4\xc2\xa0weeks post-reperfusion, SHR and WKY underwent either bilateral RF-RDN or sham-RDN.RESULTS: Following RF-RDN in both strains, LV ejection fraction remained significantly above those levels in respective sham-RDN rats, and at the end of the 12-week study, rats in both strains had significantly reduced LV fibrosis and improved vascular function. RF-RDN therapy significantly improved vascular reactivity to endothelium-dependent and\xc2\xa0-independent vasodilators as well as vascular compliance in the setting of severe HF. Improvements in LV function were accompanied by significant elevations in circulating NP as compared to those associated with sham-RDN. Further investigation into the cause of increased circulating NP levels demonstrated that RF-RDN significantly inhibited renal neprilysin activity in SHR and WKY with HF. Likewise, chronic treatment with the beta1antagonist bisoprolol inhibited renal neprilysin activity and increased circulation NP levels in WKY with HF.CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies a novel endogenous pathway by which the renal nerves participate in the degradation of cardioprotective NP. Furthermore, removal of the influence of the renal nerves on kidney function attenuates renal neprilysin activity, augments circulating NP levels, reduces myocardial fibrosis, and improves LV function in the setting of HF. labels: #Aminobutyrates#Angiotensin II#Animals#Bisoprolol#Blood Pressure#Echocardiography#Heart Failure#Kidney#Myocardium#Neprilysin#Nitrites#Norepinephrine#Rats#Rats, Inbred SHR#Rats, Inbred WKY#Renal Artery#Renin#Reperfusion Injury#Sympathectomy#Tetrazoles#Ventricular Function, Left'
b"Tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine is recommended during the third trimester of each pregnancy to provide protection to newborns, who are at risk for pertussis-related morbidity and mortality (1). As part of its case-control surveillance study of medications and birth defects, the Birth Defects Study of the Slone Epidemiology Center at Boston University (the Birth Defects Study) has recorded data on vaccinations received during pregnancy since 2006. Among 5,606 mothers of infants without structural birth defects in this population (control group),<1% had received Tdap vaccine before 2009. By 2012, the percentage of mothers of infants in the control group (control infants) who had received Tdap increased to approximately 9%, and then in 2013 and continuing through 2015, increased markedly, to 28% and 54%, respectively. As the prevalence of maternal Tdap vaccination increased, so did the proportion of pregnant women who received Tdap in the third trimester, as recommended (94%-100% from 2010 to 2015). The vast majority of Tdap vaccinations (96%) were received in a traditional health care setting (e.g., the office of the woman's obstetrician or primary care physician or her prenatal clinic). Increasing vaccination coverage during pregnancy could help reduce the impact of pertussis on infant morbidity and mortality. labels: #Diphtheria#Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines#Female#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Trimesters#Tetanus#United States#Vaccination#Whooping Cough"
b'Mortality surveillance and vital registration are limited in Sierra Leone, a country with one of the highest mortality rates among children aged<5 years worldwide, approximately 120 deaths per 1,000 live births (1,2). To inform efforts to strengthen surveillance, stillbirths and deaths in children aged<5 years from multiple surveillance streams in Bombali Sebora chiefdom were retrospectively reviewed. In total, during January 2015-November 2016, 930 deaths in children aged<5 years were identified, representing 73.3% of the 1,269 deaths that were expected based on modeled estimates. The "117" telephone alert system established during the Ebola virus disease (Ebola) epidemic captured 683 (73.4%) of all reported deaths in children aged<5 years, and was the predominant reporting source for stillbirths (n = 172). In the absence of complete vital events registration, 117 call alerts markedly improved the completeness of reporting of stillbirths and deaths in children aged<5 years. labels: #Child Mortality#Child, Preschool#Epidemics#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#Infant#Infant Mortality#Infant, Newborn#Mandatory Reporting#Population Surveillance#Sierra Leone#Stillbirth'
b'Diagnoses of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection among women declined 17% during 2011-2015, and a total of 7,498 women received a diagnosis of HIV infection in 2015 (1). Although black or African American (black) women accounted for only 12% of the U.S. female population, 60% of women with newly diagnosed HIV infection were black (1,2). By the end of 2014, an estimated 255,900 women were living with HIV infection (3), including approximately 12% who did not know they were infected; in addition, approximately 45% of women who had received a diagnosis had not achieved viral suppression (3). HIV testing is an important public health strategy for identifying women with HIV infection and linking them to HIV medical care. Analysis of CDC-funded program data submitted by 61 health departments in 2015 indicated that among 4,749 women tested who received a diagnosis of HIV infection, 2,951 (62%) had received a diagnosis in the past (previous diagnosis), and 1,798 (38%) were receiving a diagnosis for the first time (new diagnosis). Of those who had received a previous diagnosis, 87% were not in HIV medical care at the time of the current test. Testing and identifying women who are living with HIV infection but who are not in care (regardless of when they received their first diagnosis) and rapidly linking them to care so they can receive antiretroviral therapy and become virally suppressed are essential for reducing HIV infection among all women. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Continuity of Patient Care#Female#HIV Infections#Health Facilities#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Mass Screening#Puerto Rico#Sexual Partners#United States#United States Virgin Islands#Young Adult'
b"PROBLEM/CONDITION: Drug overdoses are a leading cause of injury death in the United States, resulting in approximately 52,000 deaths in 2015. Understanding differences in illicit drug use, illicit drug use disorders, and overall drug overdose deaths in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas is important for informing public health programs, interventions, and policies.REPORTING PERIOD: Illicit drug use and drug use disorders during 2003-2014, and drug overdose deaths during 1999-2015.DESCRIPTION OF DATA: The National Survey of Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) collects information through face-to-face household interviews about the use of illicit drugs, alcohol, and tobacco among the U.S. noninstitutionalized civilian population aged \xe2\x89\xa512 years. Respondents include residents of households and noninstitutional group quarters (e.g., shelters, rooming houses, dormitories, migratory workers' camps, and halfway houses) and civilians living on military bases. NSDUH variables include sex, age, race/ethnicity, residence (metropolitan/nonmetropolitan), annual household income, self-reported drug use, and drug use disorders. National Vital Statistics System Mortality (NVSS-M) data for U.S. residents include information from death certificates filed in the 50 states and the District of Columbia. Cases were selected with an underlying cause of death based on the ICD-10 codes for drug overdoses (X40-X44, X60-X64, X85, and Y10-Y14). NVSS-M variables include decedent characteristics (sex, age, and race/ethnicity) and information on intent (unintentional, suicide, homicide, or undetermined), location of death (medical facility, in a home, or other [including nursing homes, hospices, unknown, and other locations]) and county of residence (metropolitan/nonmetropolitan). Metropolitan/nonmetropolitan status is assigned independently in each data system. NSDUH uses a three-category system: Core Based Statistical Area (CBSA) of \xe2\x89\xa51 million persons; CBSA of<1 million persons; and not a CBSA, which for simplicity were labeled large metropolitan, small metropolitan, and nonmetropolitan. Deaths from NVSS-M are categorized by the county of residence of the decedent using CDC's National Center for Health Statistics 2013 Urban-Rural Classification Scheme, collapsed into two categories (metropolitan and nonmetropolitan).RESULTS: Although both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas experienced significant increases from 2003-2005 to 2012-2014 in self-reported past-month use of illicit drugs, the prevalence was highest for the large metropolitan areas compared with small metropolitan or nonmetropolitan areas throughout the study period. Notably, past-month use of illicit drugs declined over the study period for the youngest respondents (aged 12-17 years). The prevalence of past-year illicit drug use disorders among persons using illicit drugs in the past year varied by metropolitan/nonmetropolitan status and changed over time. Across both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas, the prevalence of past-year illicit drug use disorders declined during 2003-2014. In 2015, approximately six times as many drug overdose deaths occurred in metropolitan areas than occurred in nonmetropolitan areas (metropolitan: 45,059; nonmetropolitan: 7,345). Drug overdose death rates (per 100,000 population) for metropolitan areas were higher than in nonmetropolitan areas in 1999 (6.4 versus 4.0), however, the rates converged in 2004, and by 2015, the nonmetropolitan rate (17.0) was slightly higher than the metropolitan rate (16.2).INTERPRETATION: Drug use and subsequent overdoses continue to be a critical and complicated public health challenge across metropolitan/nonmetropolitan areas. The decline in illicit drug use by youth and the lower prevalence of illicit drug use disorders in rural areas during 2012-2014 are encouraging signs. However, the increasing rate of drug overdose deaths in rural areas, which surpassed rates in urban areas, is cause for concern.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIONS: Understanding the differences between metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas in drug use, drug use disorders, and drug overdose deaths can help public health professionals to identify, monitor, and prioritize responses. Consideration of where persons live and where they die from overdose could enhance specific overdose prevention interventions, such as training on naloxone administration or rescue breathing. Educating prescribers on CDC's guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain (Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain-United States, 2016. MMWR Recomm Rep 2016;66[No. RR-1]) and facilitating better access to medication-assisted treatment with methadone, buprenorphine, or naltrexone could benefit communities with high opioid use disorder rates. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Drug Overdose#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Male#Rural Population#Street Drugs#Substance-Related Disorders#United States#Urban Population#Young Adult"
b'CDC has updated its interim guidance for U.S. health care providers caring for infants with possible congenital Zika virus infection (1) in response to recently published updated guidance for health care providers caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus exposure (2), unknown sensitivity and specificity of currently available diagnostic tests for congenital Zika virus infection, and recognition of additional clinical findings associated with congenital Zika virus infection. All infants born to mothers with possible Zika virus exposure* during pregnancy should receive a standard evaluation at birth and at each subsequent well-child visit including a comprehensive physical examination, age-appropriate vision screening and developmental monitoring and screening using validated tools (3-5), and newborn hearing screen at birth, preferably using auditory brainstem response (ABR) methodology (6). Specific guidance for laboratory testing and clinical evaluation are provided for three clinical scenarios in the setting of possible maternal Zika virus exposure: 1) infants with clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome regardless of maternal testing results, 2) infants without clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome who were born to mothers with laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection,\xe2\x80\xa0and 3) infants without clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome who were born to mothers without laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection. Infants in the first two scenarios should receive further testing and evaluation for Zika virus, whereas for the third group, further testing and clinical evaluation for Zika virus are not recommended. Health care providers should remain alert for abnormal findings (e.g., postnatal-onset microcephaly and eye abnormalities without microcephaly) in infants with possible congenital Zika virus exposure without apparent abnormalities at birth. labels: #Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Female#Humans#Infant#Practice Guidelines as Topic#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#United States#Zika Virus Infection'
b"Health communication and social mobilization efforts to improve the public's knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) regarding Ebola virus disease (Ebola) were important in controlling the 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic in Guinea (1), which resulted in 3,814 reported Ebola cases and 2,544 deaths.* Most Ebola cases in Guinea resulted from the washing and touching of persons and corpses infected with Ebola without adequate infection control precautions at home, at funerals, and in health facilities (2,3). As the 18-month epidemic waned in August 2015, Ebola KAP were assessed in a survey among residents of Guinea recruited through multistage cluster sampling procedures in the nation's eight administrative regions (Bok\xc3\xa9, Conakry, Faranah, Kankan, Kindia, Lab\xc3\xa9, Mamou, and Nz\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9kor\xc3\xa9). Nearly all participants (92%) were aware of Ebola prevention measures, but 27% believed that Ebola could be transmitted by ambient air, and 49% believed they could protect themselves from Ebola by avoiding mosquito bites. Of the participants, 95% reported taking actions to avoid getting Ebola, especially more frequent handwashing (93%). Nearly all participants (91%) indicated they would send relatives with suspected Ebola to Ebola treatment centers, and 89% said they would engage special Ebola burial teams to remove corpses with suspected Ebola from homes. Of the participants, 66% said they would prefer to observe an Ebola-affected corpse from a safe distance at burials rather than practice traditional funeral rites involving corpse contact. The findings were used to guide the ongoing epidemic response and recovery efforts, including health communication, social mobilization, and planning, to prevent and respond to future outbreaks or sporadic cases of Ebola. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Epidemics#Female#Guinea#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#Male#Young Adult"
b'Here, we present the use of ethoscopes, which are machines for high-throughput analysis of behavior in Drosophila and other animals. Ethoscopes provide a software and hardware solution that is reproducible and easily scalable. They perform, in real-time, tracking and profiling of behavior by using a supervised machine learning algorithm, are able to deliver behaviorally triggered stimuli to flies in a feedback-loop mode, and are highly customizable and open source. Ethoscopes can be built easily by using 3D printing technology and rely on Raspberry Pi microcomputers and Arduino boards to provide affordable and flexible hardware. All software and construction specifications are available at http://lab.gilest.ro/ethoscope. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Behavior, Animal#Drosophila melanogaster#Ethology#Machine Learning#Microcomputers#Printing, Three-Dimensional#Reproducibility of Results#Software'
b'In a 2016 survey of 704 National Science Foundation (NSF) Biological Sciences Directorate principal investigators (BIO PIs), nearly 90% indicated they are currently or will soon be analyzing large data sets. BIO PIs considered a range of computational needs important to their work, including high performance computing (HPC), bioinformatics support, multistep workflows, updated analysis software, and the ability to store, share, and publish data. Previous studies in the United States and Canada emphasized infrastructure needs. However, BIO PIs said the most pressing unmet needs are training in data integration, data management, and scaling analyses for HPC-acknowledging that data science skills will be required to build a deeper understanding of life. This portends a growing data knowledge gap in biology and challenges institutions and funding agencies to redouble their support for computational training in biology. labels: #Computational Biology#Databases, Genetic#Humans#Research Personnel#United States'
b'OBJECTIVE: The United States is amidst an opioid epidemic, including synthetic opioids that may result in rapid death, leaving minimal opportunity for bystander rescue. We pilot tested a behavioral intervention to reduce the occurrence of opioid overdose among opioid dependent persons at high-risk for subsequent overdose.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a single-blinded randomized-controlled trial of a repeated dose motivational interviewing intervention (REBOOT) to reduce overdose versus treatment as usual, defined as information and referrals, over 16 months at the San Francisco Department of Public Health from 2014-2016. Participants were 18-65 years of age, had opioid use disorder by Structured Clinical Interview, active opioid use, opioid overdose within 5 years, and prior receipt of naloxone kits. The intervention was administered at months 0, 4, 8, and 12, preceded by the assessment which was also administered at month 16. Dual primary outcomes were any overdose event and number of events, collected by computer-assisted personal interview, as well as any fatal overdose events per vital records.RESULTS: A total of 78 persons were screened and 63 enrolled. Mean age was 43 years, 67% were born male, 65% White, 17% African-American, and 14% Latino. Ninety-two percent of visits and 93% of counseling sessions were completed. At baseline, 33.3% of participants had experienced an overdose in the past four months, with a similar mean number of overdoses in both arms (p = 0.95); 29% overdosed during follow-up. By intention-to-treat, participants assigned to REBOOT were less likely to experience any overdose (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 0.62 [95%CI 0.41-0.92, p = 0.019) and experienced fewer overdose events (IRR 0.46, 95%CI 0.24-0.90, p = 0.023), findings that were robust to sensitivity analyses. There were no differences between arms in days of opioid use, substance use treatment, or naloxone carriage.CONCLUSIONS: REBOOT reduced the occurrence of any opioid overdose and the number of overdoses.TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov NCT02093559. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Drug Overdose#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Narcotic Antagonists#Opioid-Related Disorders#Pilot Projects#Risk Factors#Single-Blind Method#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Patients with cancer frequently suffer from emotional distress, characterized by psychological symptoms such as anxiety or depression. The presence of psychological symptoms combined with the complex nature of oncology processes can negatively impact patients' quality of life. We aimed to determine the impact of a relaxation protocol on improving quality of life in a sample of oncological patients treated in the Spanish National Public Health System.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a multicenter interventional study without a control group. In total, 272 patients with different oncologic pathologies and showing symptoms of anxiety were recruited from 10 Spanish public hospitals. The intervention comprised abbreviated progressive muscle relaxation training, according to Bernstein and Borkovec. This was followed by weekly telephone calls to each patient over a 1-month period. We collected sociodemographic variables related to the disease process, including information about mental health and the intervention. Patients' quality of life was assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire. Bivariate and univariate analyses were performed, along with an analysis of multiple correspondences to identify subgroups of patients with similar variations on the FACT-G.RESULTS: Patients showed statistically significant improvements on the FACT-G overall score (W = 16806; p<0.001), with an initial mean score of 55.33\xc2\xb110.42 and a final mean score of 64.49\xc2\xb17.70. We also found significant improvements for all subscales: emotional wellbeing (W = 13118; p<0.001), functional wellbeing (W = 16155.5; p<0.001), physical wellbeing (W = 8885.5; p<0.001), and social and family context (W = -1840; p = 0.037).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with cancer who learned and practiced abbreviated progressive muscle relaxation experienced improvement in their perceived quality of life as measured by the FACT-G. Our findings support a previous assumption that complementary techniques (including relaxation techniques) are effective in improving the quality of life of patients with cancer. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Muscle Relaxation#Neoplasms#Quality of Life#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: Preliminary studies suggested that Aboriginal Canadians had disproportionately higher rates of infection, hospitalization, and critical illness due to pandemic Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09.METHODS: We used a prospective cohort study of critically ill patients with laboratory confirmed or probable H1N1 infection in Canada between April 16 2009 and April 12 2010. Baseline characteristics, medical interventions, clinical course and outcomes were compared between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal patients. The primary outcome was hospital mortality.RESULTS: Of 647 critically ill adult patients with known ethnicity, 81 (12.5%) were Aboriginal, 566 (87.5%) were non-Aboriginal. Aboriginal patients were younger (mean [SD] age 40.7[13.7]v. 49.0[14.9] years, p<0.001) and more frequently female (64.2% v. 51.1%, p = 0.027). Rates of any co-morbid illnesses (Aboriginal v. non-Aboriginal, 92.6% v. 91.0%, p = 0.63), time from symptom onset to hospital admission (median [interquartile range] 4 [2-7]v. 4 [2-7] days, p = 0.84), time to ICU admission (5 [3-8]v.5 [3-8] days, p = 0.91), and severity of illness (mean APACHE II score (19.9 [9.6]v. 21.1 [9.9], p = 0.33) were similar. A similar proportion of Aboriginal patients received antiviral medication before ICU admission than non-Aboriginal patients (91.4% v. 93.8%, p = 0.40). Among Aboriginal versus non-Aboriginal patients, the need for mechanical ventilation (93.8% v. 88.6%, p = 0.15), ventilator-free days (14 [3-23]v. 17 [0-24], p = 0.62), durations of stay in ICU (13[7-19.5]v. 11 [5-8] days, p = 0.05), hospital (19 [12.5-33.5]v. 18 [11-35] days, p = 0.63), and hospital mortality were similar (19.8% v. 22.6%, p = 0.56). In multiple logistic regression analyses, higher APACHE II score (1.06; 1.04-1.09, p<0.001) was independently associated with an increased risk of death; antiviral treatment with a lower risk of death (0.34; 0.15 - 0.78, p = 0.01). Ethnicity was not associated with mortality.INTERPRETATION: During the 2009-2010 Influenza A (H1N1) pandemic, Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Canadians with H1N1-related critical illness had a similar risk of death, after adjusting for potential confounding factors. labels: #Adult#Canada#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H1N1 Subtype#Influenza, Human#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)'
b'Genetic mutations disrupting the structure and function of primary cilia cause various inherited retinal diseases in humans. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a genetically heterogeneous, pleiotropic ciliopathy characterized by retinal degeneration, obesity, postaxial polydactyly, intellectual disability, and genital and renal abnormalities. To gain insight into the mechanisms of retinal degeneration in BBS, we developed a congenital knockout mouse of Bbs8, as well as conditional mouse models in which function of the BBSome (a protein complex that mediates ciliary trafficking) can be temporally inactivated or restored. We demonstrate that BBS mutant mice have defects in retinal outer segment morphogenesis. We further demonstrate that removal of Bbs8 in adult mice affects photoreceptor function and disrupts the structural integrity of the outer segment. Notably, using a mouse model in which a gene trap inhibiting Bbs8 gene expression can be removed by an inducible FLP recombinase, we show that when BBS8 is restored in immature retinas with malformed outer segments, outer segment extension can resume normally and malformed outer segment discs are displaced distally by normal outer segment structures. Over time, the retinas of the rescued mice become morphologically and functionally normal, indicating that there is a window of plasticity when initial retinal outer segment morphogenesis defects can be ameliorated. labels: #Animals#Bardet-Biedl Syndrome#Cilia#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Models, Animal#Morphogenesis#Mutation#Photoreceptor Cells#Protein Transport#Retina'
b'Influenza pandemics can emerge unexpectedly and wreak global devastation. However, each of the six pandemics since 1889 emerged in the Northern Hemisphere just after the flu season, suggesting that pandemic timing may be predictable. Using a stochastic model fit to seasonal flu surveillance data from the United States, we find that seasonal flu leaves a transient wake of heterosubtypic immunity that impedes the emergence of novel flu viruses. This refractory period provides a simple explanation for not only the spring-summer timing of historical pandemics, but also early increases in pandemic severity and multiple waves of transmission. Thus, pandemic risk may be seasonal and predictable, with the accuracy of pre-pandemic and real-time risk assessments hinging on reliable seasonal influenza surveillance and precise estimates of the breadth and duration of heterosubtypic immunity. labels: #Computational Biology#Humans#Influenza, Human#Models, Biological#Pandemics#Risk#Seasons'
b'During vertebrate neurulation, the embryonic ectoderm is patterned into lineage progenitors for neural plate, neural crest, placodes and epidermis. Here, we use Xenopus laevis embryos to analyze the spatial and temporal transcriptome of distinct ectodermal domains in the course of neurulation, during the establishment of cell lineages. In order to define the transcriptome of small groups of cells from a single germ layer and to retain spatial information, dorsal and ventral ectoderm was subdivided along the anterior-posterior and medial-lateral axes by microdissections. Principal component analysis on the transcriptomes of these ectoderm fragments primarily identifies embryonic axes and temporal dynamics. This provides a genetic code to define positional information of any ectoderm sample along the anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes directly from its transcriptome. In parallel, we use nonnegative matrix factorization to predict enhanced gene expression maps onto early and mid-neurula embryos, and specific signatures for each ectoderm area. The clustering of spatial and temporal datasets allowed detection of multiple biologically relevant groups (e.g., Wnt signaling, neural crest development, sensory placode specification, ciliogenesis, germ layer specification). We provide an interactive network interface, EctoMap, for exploring synexpression relationships among genes expressed in the neurula, and suggest several strategies to use this comprehensive dataset to address questions in developmental biology as well as stem cell or cancer research. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Cluster Analysis#Databases, Genetic#Ectoderm#Gastrulation#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Gene Ontology#Gene Regulatory Networks#Humans#Internet#Microdissection#Neoplasms#Neural Crest#Neurons#Neurulation#Principal Component Analysis#Stem Cells#Time Factors#Transcriptome#Wnt Proteins#Xenopus laevis'
b"Musculoskeletal allografts are now commonly used. To decrease the potential risks of transmission of pathogenic bacteria, fungi, or viruses to the transplant recipients, certain issues regarding the management of patients who receive contaminated allografts need to be addressed. We aimed to clarify the incidence and extent of disease transmission from allografts by analyzing the allografting procedures performed in the bone bank of our hospital over the past 20 years. We retrospectively reviewed the data from our allograft registry center on 3979 allografts that were implanted in 3193 recipients throughout a period of two decades, from July 1991 to June 2011. The source of the allografts, results of all screening tests, dates of harvesting and implantation, and recipients of all allografts were checked. With the help of the Center for Infection Control of our hospital, a strict prospective, hospital-wide, on-site surveillance was conducted, and every patient with healthcare-associated infection was identified. Fisher's exact test was used to compare the infection rate between recipients with sterile allografts and those with contaminated allografts. The overall discard and infection rates were, respectively, 23% and 1.3% in the first decade (1991-2001); and 18.4% and 1.25% in the second decade (2001-2011). The infection rate of contaminated allograft recipients was significantly higher than that of sterile allograft recipients (10% vs. 1.15%, P<0.01) in the second decade. Both infection and discard rates of our bone bank are comparable with those of international bone banks. Strict allograft processing and adequate prophylactic use of antibiotics are critical to prevent infection and disease transmission in such cases. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Allografts#Bone Banks#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality Control#Retrospective Studies#Taiwan#Young Adult"
b'Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a hematological disorder leading to blood vessel occlusion accompanied by painful episodes and even death. Red blood cells (RBCs) of SCD patients have diverse shapes that reveal important biomechanical and bio-rheological characteristics, e.g. their density, fragility, adhesive properties, etc. Hence, having an objective and effective way of RBC shape quantification and classification will lead to better insights and eventual better prognosis of the disease. To this end, we have developed an automated, high-throughput, ex-vivo RBC shape classification framework that consists of three stages. First, we present an automatic hierarchical RBC extraction method to detect the RBC region (ROI) from the background, and then separate touching RBCs in the ROI images by applying an improved random walk method based on automatic seed generation. Second, we apply a mask-based RBC patch-size normalization method to normalize the variant size of segmented single RBC patches into uniform size. Third, we employ deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to realize RBC classification; the alternating convolution and pooling operations can deal with non-linear and complex patterns. Furthermore, we investigate the specific shape factor quantification for the classified RBC image data in order to develop a general multiscale shape analysis. We perform several experiments on raw microscopy image datasets from 8 SCD patients (over 7,000 single RBC images) through a 5-fold cross validation method both for oxygenated and deoxygenated RBCs. We demonstrate that the proposed framework can successfully classify sickle shape RBCs in an automated manner with high accuracy, and we also provide the corresponding shape factor analysis, which can be used synergistically with the CNN analysis for more robust predictions. Moreover, the trained deep CNN exhibits good performance even for a deoxygenated dataset and distinguishes the subtle differences in texture alteration inside the oxygenated and deoxygenated RBCs. labels: #Anemia, Sickle Cell#Computational Biology#Erythrocytes#Humans#Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Microscopy#Neural Networks (Computer)#Pattern Recognition, Automated'
b'Consistent across time and cultures, men and male adolescents older than 14 years of age appear underrepresented in mood disorders, and are far less likely than women to seek psychological help. The much higher rate of suicide amongst males suggests that depression in men might be underreported. One of the core human motives is to seek acceptance by others and avoid rejection. Rejection Sensitivity (RS) has been conceptualized as the cognitive-affective processing disposition to anxiously expect, readily perceive, and intensely respond to cues of rejection in the behavior of others. RS has been previously linked with the onset and course of depression, but-as yet-has not been investigated longitudinally in a clinical population. We investigated the predictive role of RS to symptom deterioration 6 months after end-of- treatment in 72 male inpatients with depressive spectrum disorder. The BDI was administered at intake, end-of-treatment and 6 month follow-up. RS scores were obtained at intake. Rejection Sensitivity had additional predictive power on BDI scores at 6 months follow-up controlling for BDI scores at end-of-treatment (\xce\x94R2 = .095). The results are discussed in terms of the importance of targeting RS during treatment, and highlight the fact that therapeutic follow-up care is paramount. Future research should investigate possible mediators of the RS-relapse-to-depression association, such as self-blame, rumination, neuroticism, pessimism, emotion dysregulation, and low self-esteem. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Depression#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Rejection (Psychology)#Young Adult'
b'PURPOSE: To use structural equation modelling (SEM) to determine (1) the direct and indirect associations of strength of paretic lower limb muscles with the level of community integration, and (2) the direct association of walking endurance and balance performance with the level of community integration in community-dwelling stroke survivors.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional study of 105 stroke survivors, the Subjective Index of Physical and Social Outcome (SIPSO) was used to measure the level of community integration. Lower-limb strength measures included isometric paretic ankle strength and isokinetic paretic knee peak torque. The Berg Balance Scale (BBS) and the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) were used to evaluate balance performance and walking endurance, respectively.RESULTS: SEM revealed that the distance walked on the 6MWT had the strongest direct association with the SIPSO score (\xce\xb2 = 0.41, p<0.001). An increase of one standard deviation in the 6MWT distance resulted in an increase of 0.41 standard deviations in the SIPSO score. Moreover, dorsiflexion strength (\xce\xb2 = 0.18, p = 0.044) and the BBS score (\xce\xb2 = 0.21, p = 0.021) had direct associations with the SIPSO score.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the proposed model suggest that rehabilitation training of community-dwelling stroke survivors could focus on walking endurance, balance performance and dorsiflexor muscle strengthening if the aim is to augment the level of community integration. labels: #Aged#Disability Evaluation#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Statistical#Muscle Strength#Postural Balance#Stroke#Stroke Rehabilitation#Survivors'
b'AIMS: Veno-arterial extracorporeal life support (ECLS) is an established method to stabilize acute circulatory failure. Parameters and data on when to ideally wean circulatory support are limited. Bilirubin is a marker of end-organ damage. Therefore, the purpose of this large study was to evaluate the impact of dynamic changes of elevated bilirubin levels on survival in patients on ECLS.METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed 502 consecutive cases of ECLS from 2007 to 2015. Bilirubin levels were recorded before implantation and until six days after explantation. Dynamic bilirubin changes, and hemodynamic and laboratory outcome parameters were compared in survivors and nonsurvivors. Reason for ECLS implantation was cardiac arrest with ongoing resuscitation in 230 (45.8%), low cardiac output in 174 (34.7%) and inability to wean off cardiopulmonary bypass in 98 (19.5%) patients. 307 (61.2%) patients were weaned off ECLS, however, 206 (41.0%) survived. Mean duration of ECLS was 3 (2-6) days, and survivors received significantly longer ECLS (5 vs 3 days, p<0.001). Survivors had significantly lower baseline bilirubin levels (p = 0.003). Bilirubin started to rise from day 2 in all patients. In survivors, bilirubin levels had trended down on the day of ECLS explantation and stayed at an acceptable level. However, in weaned patients who did not survive and patients who died on ECLS bilirubin levels continued to rise during the recorded period.CONCLUSION: ECLS support improves survival in patients with acute circulatory failure. Down trending bilirubin levels on veno-arterial ECLS indicate improved chances of successful weaning and survival in hemodynamically stable patients. labels: #Aged#Bilirubin#Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Shock#Survival Analysis'
b'The PubMed database offers an extensive set of publication data that can be useful, yet inherently complex to use without automated computational techniques. Data repositories such as the Genomic Data Commons (GDC) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) offer experimental data storage and retrieval as well as curated gene expression profiles. Genetic interaction databases, including Reactome and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, offer pathway and experiment data analysis using data curated from these publications and data repositories. We have created a method to generate and analyze consensus networks, inferring potential gene interactions, using large numbers of Bayesian networks generated by data mining publications in the PubMed database. Through the concept of network resolution, these consensus networks can be tailored to represent possible genetic interactions. We designed a set of experiments to confirm that our method is stable across variation in both sample and topological input sizes. Using gene product interactions from the KEGG pathway database and data mining PubMed publication abstracts, we verify that regardless of the network resolution or the inferred consensus network, our method is capable of inferring meaningful gene interactions through consensus Bayesian network generation with multiple, randomized topological orderings. Our method can not only confirm the existence of currently accepted interactions, but has the potential to hypothesize new ones as well. We show our method confirms the existence of known gene interactions such as JAK-STAT-PI3K-AKT-mTOR, infers novel gene interactions such as RAS- Bcl-2 and RAS-AKT, and found significant pathway-pathway interactions between the JAK-STAT signaling and Cardiac Muscle Contraction KEGG pathways. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Datasets as Topic#Protein Interaction Mapping#PubMed'
b'Paulownia tomentosa is a fast-growing tree species with multiple uses. It is grown worldwide, but is native to China, where it is widely cultivated in saline regions. We previously confirmed that autotetraploid P. tomentosa plants are more stress-tolerant than the diploid plants. However, the molecular mechanism underlying P. tomentosa salinity tolerance has not been fully characterized. Using the complete Paulownia fortunei genome as a reference, we applied next-generation RNA-sequencing technology to analyze the effects of salt stress on diploid and autotetraploid P. tomentosa plants. We generated 175 million clean reads and identified 15,873 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from four P. tomentosa libraries (two diploid and two autotetraploid). Functional annotations of the differentially expressed genes using the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases revealed that plant hormone signal transduction and photosynthetic activities are vital for plant responses to high-salt conditions. We also identified several transcription factors, including members of the AP2/EREBP, bHLH, MYB, and NAC families. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis validated the expression patterns of eight differentially expressed genes. Our findings and the generated transcriptome data may help to accelerate the genetic improvement of cultivated P. tomentosa and other plant species for enhanced growth in saline soils. labels: #Alternative Splicing#Gene Expression Profiling#Genes, Plant#Lamiales#Photosynthesis#Plant Growth Regulators#Ploidies#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Salt-Tolerance#Signal Transduction#Transcription Factors'
b"Ecological niche modeling (ENM) is a broadly used tool in different fields of plant ecology. Despite the importance of edaphic conditions in determining the niche of terrestrial plant species, edaphic data have rarely been included in ENMs of plant species perhaps because such data are not available for many regions. Recently, edaphic data has been made available at a global scale allowing its potential inclusion and evaluation on ENM performance for plant species. Here, we take advantage of such data and address the following main questions: What is the influence of distinct predictor variables (e.g. climatic vs edaphic) on different ENM algorithms? and what is the relationship between the performance of different predictors and geographic characteristics of species? We used 125 plant species distributed over the Neotropical region to explore the effect on ENMs of using edaphic data available from the SoilGrids database and its combination with climatic data from the CHELSA database. In addition, we related these different predictor variables to geographic characteristics of the target species and different ENM algorithms. The use of different predictors (climatic, edaphic, and both) significantly affected model performance and spatial complexity of the predictions. We showed that the use of global edaphic plus climatic variables generates ENMs with similar or better accuracy compared to those constructed only with climate variables. Moreover, the performance of models considering these different predictors, separately or jointly, was related to geographic properties of species records, such as number and distribution range. The large geographic extent, the variability of environments and the different species' geographical characteristics considered here allowed us to demonstrate that global edaphic data adds useful information for plant ENMs. This is particularly valuable for studies of species that are distributed in regions where more detailed information on soil properties is poor or does not even exist. labels: #Climate#Ecosystem#Models, Biological#Plants#Species Specificity"
b'The interplay between hemodynamic-based markers of cortical activity (e.g. fMRI and optical intrinsic signal imaging), which are an indirect and relatively slow report of neural activity, and underlying synaptic electrical and metabolic activity through neurovascular coupling is a topic of ongoing research and debate. As application of resting state functional connectivity measures is extended further into topics such as brain development, aging and disease, the importance of understanding the fundamental physiological basis for functional connectivity will grow. Here we extend functional connectivity analysis from hemodynamic- to calcium-based imaging. Transgenic mice (n = 7) expressing a fluorescent calcium indicator (GCaMP6) driven by the Thy1 promoter in glutamatergic neurons were imaged transcranially in both anesthetized (using ketamine/xylazine) and awake states. Sequential LED illumination (\xce\xbb = 454, 523, 595, 640nm) enabled concurrent imaging of both GCaMP6 fluorescence emission (corrected for hemoglobin absorption) and hemodynamics. Functional connectivity network maps were constructed for infraslow (0.009-0.08Hz), intermediate (0.08-0.4Hz), and high (0.4-4.0Hz) frequency bands. At infraslow and intermediate frequencies, commonly used in BOLD fMRI and fcOIS studies of functional connectivity and implicated in neurovascular coupling mechanisms, GCaMP6 and HbO2 functional connectivity structures were in high agreement, both qualitatively and also quantitatively through a measure of spatial similarity. The spontaneous dynamics of both contrasts had the highest correlation when the GCaMP6 signal was delayed with a ~0.6-1.5s temporal offset. Within the higher-frequency delta band, sensitive to slow wave sleep oscillations in non-REM sleep and anesthesia, we evaluate the speed with which the connectivity analysis stabilized and found that the functional connectivity maps captured putative network structure within time window lengths as short as 30 seconds. Homotopic GCaMP6 functional connectivity maps at 0.4-4.0Hz in the anesthetized states show a striking correlated and anti-correlated structure along the anterior to posterior axis. This structure is potentially explained in part by observed propagation of delta-band activity from frontal somatomotor regions to visuoparietal areas. During awake imaging, this spatio-temporal quality is altered, and a more complex and detailed functional connectivity structure is observed. The combined calcium/hemoglobin imaging technique described here will enable the dissociation of changes in ionic and hemodynamic functional structure and neurovascular coupling and provide a framework for subsequent studies of neurological disease such as stroke. labels: #Anesthesia#Animals#Brain Mapping#Calcium#Electroencephalography#Fluorescence#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Wakefulness'
b'We performed dye-enhanced imaging of mouse brain microvessels using spectral focusing coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (SF-CARS) microscopy. The resonant signals from C-H stretching in forward CARS usually show high background intensity in tissues, which makes CARS imaging of microvessels difficult. In this study, epi-detection of back-scattered SF-CARS signals showed a negligible background, but the overall intensity of resonant CARS signals was too low to observe the network of brain microvessels. Therefore, Evans blue (EB) dye was used as contrasting agent to enhance the back-scattered SF-CARS signals. Breakdown of brain microvessels by inducing hemorrhage in a mouse was clearly visualized using backward SF-CARS signals, following intravenous injection of EB. The improved visualization of brain microvessels with EB enhanced the sensitivity of SF-CARS, detecting not only the blood vessels themselves but their integrity as well in the brain vasculature. labels: #Animals#Brain#Evans Blue#Intracranial Hemorrhages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Microscopy#Microvessels#Spectrum Analysis, Raman'
b'X-ray microbeam radiotherapy can potentially widen the therapeutic window due to a geometrical redistribution of the dose. However, high requirements on photon flux, beam collimation, and system stability restrict its application mainly to large-scale, cost-intensive synchrotron facilities. With a unique laser-based Compact Light Source using inverse Compton scattering, we investigated the translation of this promising radiotherapy technique to a machine of future clinical relevance. We performed in vitro colony-forming assays and chromosome aberration tests in normal tissue cells after microbeam irradiation compared to homogeneous irradiation at the same mean dose using 25 keV X-rays. The microplanar pattern was achieved with a tungsten slit array of 50 \xce\xbcm slit size and a spacing of 350 \xce\xbcm. Applying microbeams significantly increased cell survival for a mean dose above 2 Gy, which indicates fewer normal tissue complications. The observation of significantly less chromosome aberrations suggests a lower risk of second cancer development. Our findings provide valuable insight into the mechanisms of microbeam radiotherapy and prove its applicability at a compact synchrotron, which contributes to its future clinical translation. labels: #Animals#CHO Cells#Cell Survival#Chromosome Aberrations#Cricetulus#HeLa Cells#Humans#Synchrotrons#X-Rays'
b'DNA barcoding is a fast and reliable tool to assess and monitor biodiversity and, via community phylogenetics, to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes that may be responsible for the community structure of forests. In this study, DNA barcodes for the two widely used plastid coding regions rbcL and matK are used to contribute to identification of morphologically undetermined individuals, as well as to investigate phylogenetic structure of tree communities in 70 subplots (10 \xc3\x97 10m) of a 25-ha forest-dynamics plot in Brunei (Borneo, Southeast Asia). The combined matrix (rbcL + matK) comprised 555 haplotypes (from \xe2\x89\xa5154 genera, 68 families and 25 orders sensu APG, Angiosperm Phylogeny Group, 2016), making a substantial contribution to tree barcode sequences from Southeast Asia. Barcode sequences were used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships using maximum likelihood, both with and without constraining the topology of taxonomic orders to match that proposed by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group. A third phylogenetic tree was reconstructed using the program Phylomatic to investigate the influence of phylogenetic resolution on results. Detection of non-random patterns of community assembly was determined by net relatedness index (NRI) and nearest taxon index (NTI). In most cases, community assembly was either random or phylogenetically clustered, which likely indicates the importance to community structure of habitat filtering based on phylogenetically correlated traits in determining community structure. Different phylogenetic trees gave similar overall results, but the Phylomatic tree produced greater variation across plots for NRI and NTI values, presumably due to noise introduced by using an unresolved phylogenetic tree. Our results suggest that using a DNA barcode tree has benefits over the traditionally used Phylomatic approach by increasing precision and accuracy and allowing the incorporation of taxonomically unidentified individuals into analyses. labels: #Borneo#DNA Barcoding, Taxonomic#DNA, Plant#Databases, Genetic#Forests#Likelihood Functions#Phylogeny#Plants'
b'This article presents a novel connectivity analysis method that is suitable for multi-node networks such as EEG, MEG or EcOG electrode recordings. Its diagnostic power and ability to interpret brain states in schizophrenia is demonstrated on a set of 50 subjects that constituted of 25 healthy and 25 diagnosed with schizophrenia and treated with medication. The method can also be used for the automatic detection of schizophrenia; it exhibits higher sensitivity than state-of-the-art methods with no false positives. The detection is based on an analysis from a minute long pattern-recognition computer task. Moreover, this connectivity analysis leads naturally to an optimal choice of electrodes and hence to highly statistically significant results that are based on data from only 3-5 electrodes. The method is general and can be used for the diagnosis of other psychiatric conditions, provided an appropriate computer task is devised. labels: #Brain Mapping#Electroencephalography#Humans#Schizophrenia'
b'Fundamental understanding and characterization of neural response to substrate topography is essential in the development of next generation biomaterials for nerve repair. Aerogels are a new class of materials with great potential as a biomaterial. In this work, we examine the extension of neurites by PC12 cells plated on matrigel-coated and collagen-coated mesoporous aerogel surfaces. We have successfully established the methodology for adhesion and growth of PC12 cells on polyurea crosslinked silica aerogels. Additionally, we have quantified neurite behaviors and compared their response on aerogel substrates with their behavior on tissue culture (TC) plastic, and polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). We found that, on average, PC12 cells extend longer neurites on crosslinked silica aerogels than on tissue culture plastic, and, that the average number of neurites per cluster is lower on aerogels than on tissue culture plastic. Aerogels are an attractive candidate for future development of smart neural implants and the work presented here creates a platform for future work with this class of materials as a substrate for bioelectronic interfacing. labels: #Animals#Dimethylpolysiloxanes#Gels#Humans#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Neurites#PC12 Cells#Plastics#Rats#Silicon Dioxide#Surface Properties'
b'BACKGROUND: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) prevalence is increasing and becoming a major public health concern. Whether a Mediterranean diet can help prevent GDM in unselected pregnant women has yet to be studied.METHODS: We conducted a prospective, randomized controlled trial to evaluate the incidence of GDM with two different dietary models. All consecutive normoglycemic (<92 mg/dL) pregnant women at 8-12 gestational weeks (GW) were assigned to Intervention Group (IG, n = 500): MedDiet supplemented with extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) and pistachios; or Control Group (CG, n = 500): standard diet with limited fat intake. Primary outcome was to assess the effect of the intervention on GDM incidence at 24-28 GW. Gestational weight gain (GWG), pregnancy-induced hypertension, caesarean section (CS), preterm delivery, perineal trauma, small and large for gestational age (SGA and LGA) and admissions to neonatal intensive care unit were also assessed. Analysis was by intention-to-treat.RESULTS: A total of 874 women completed the study (440/434, CG/IG). According to nutritional questionnaires and biomarker analysis, women in the IG had a good adherence to the intervention. 177/874 women were diagnosed with GDM, 103/440 (23.4%) in CG and 74/434(17.1%) in IG, p = 0.012. The crude relative risk (RR) for GDM was 0.73 (95% CI: 0.56-0.95; p = 0.020) IG vs CG and persisted after adjusted multivariable analysis, 0.75(95% CI: 0.57-0.98; p = 0.039). IG had also significantly reduced rates of insulin-treated GDM, prematurity, GWG at 24-28 and 36-38 GW, emergency CS, perineal trauma, and SGA and LGA newborns (all p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: An early nutritional intervention with a supplemented MedDiet reduces the incidence of GDM and improves several maternal and neonatal outcomes. labels: #Adult#Diabetes, Gestational#Diet, Mediterranean#Female#Humans#Incidence#Infant, Newborn#Life Style#Olive Oil#Pistacia#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Prospective Studies'
b'Pathogen spread between farms results from interaction between the epidemiological characteristics of infectious agents, such as transmission route, and the contact structure between holdings. The objective of our study was to design network models of pig movements matching with epidemiological features of pathogens. Our first model represents the transmission of infectious diseases between farms only through the introduction of animals to holdings (Animal Introduction Model AIM), whereas the second one also accounts for pathogen spread through intermediate transit of trucks through farms even without any animal unloading (i.e. indirect transmission-Transit Model TM). To take the pyramidal organisation of pig production into consideration, these networks were studied at three different scales: the whole network and two subnetworks containing only breeding or production farms. The two models were applied to pig movement data recorded in France from June 2012 to December 2014. For each type of model, we calculated network descriptive statistics, looked for weakly/strongly connected components (WCCs/SCCs) and communities, and analysed temporal patterns. Whatever the model, the network exhibited scale-free and small-world topologies. Differences in centrality values between the two models showed that nucleus, multiplication and post-weaning farms played a key role in the spread of diseases transmitted exclusively by the introduction of infected animals, whereas farrowing and farrow-to-finish herds appeared more vulnerable to the introduction of infectious diseases through indirect contacts. The second network was less fragmented than the first one, a giant SCC being detected. The topology of network communities also varied with modelling assumptions: in the first approach, a huge geographically dispersed community was found, whereas the second model highlighted several small geographically clustered communities. These results underline the relevance of developing network models corresponding to pathogen features (e.g. their transmission route), and the need to target specific types of holdings/areas for surveillance depending on the epidemiological context. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#France#Swine#Swine Diseases#Transportation'
b"Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope gp120 is partly an intrinsically disordered (unstructured/disordered) protein as it contains regions that do not fold into well-defined protein structures. These disordered regions play important roles in HIV's life cycle, particularly, V3 loop-dependent cell entry, which determines how the virus uses two coreceptors on immune cells, the chemokine receptors CCR5 (R5), CXCR4 (X4) or both (R5X4 virus). Most infecting HIV-1 variants utilise CCR5, while a switch to CXCR4-use occurs in the majority of infections. Why does this 'rewiring' event occur in HIV-1 infected patients? As changes in the charge of the V3 loop are associated with this receptor switch and it has been suggested that charged residues promote structure disorder, we hypothesise that the intrinsic disorder of the V3 loop is permissive to sequence variation thus contributing to the switch in cell tropism. To test this we use three independent data sets of gp120 to analyse V3 loop disorder. We find that the V3 loop of X4 virus has significantly higher intrinsic disorder tendency than R5 and R5X4 virus, while R5X4 virus has the lowest. These results indicate that structural disorder plays an important role in HIV-1 cell tropism and CXCR4 binding. We discuss the potential evolutionary mechanisms leading to the fixation of disorder promoting mutations and the adaptive potential of protein structural disorder in viral host adaptation. labels: #HIV Envelope Protein gp120#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Protein Conformation#Viral Proteins"
b'Reducing duplicated data of database backups is an important application scenario for data deduplication technology. NewSQL is an emerging database system and is now being used more and more widely. NewSQL systems need to improve data reliability by periodically backing up in-memory data, resulting in a lot of duplicated data. The traditional deduplication method is not optimized for the NewSQL server system and cannot take full advantage of hardware resources to optimize deduplication performance. A recent research pointed out that the future NewSQL server will have thousands of CPU cores, large DRAM and huge NVRAM. Therefore, how to utilize these hardware resources to optimize the performance of data deduplication is an important issue. To solve this problem, we propose a deduplication optimization method (DOMe) for NewSQL system backup. To take advantage of the large number of CPU cores in the NewSQL server to optimize deduplication performance, DOMe parallelizes the deduplication method based on the fork-join framework. The fingerprint index, which is the key data structure in the deduplication process, is implemented as pure in-memory hash table, which makes full use of the large DRAM in NewSQL system, eliminating the performance bottleneck problem of fingerprint index existing in traditional deduplication method. The H-store is used as a typical NewSQL database system to implement DOMe method. DOMe is experimentally analyzed by two representative backup data. The experimental results show that: 1) DOMe can reduce the duplicated NewSQL backup data. 2) DOMe significantly improves deduplication performance by parallelizing CDC algorithms. In the case of the theoretical speedup ratio of the server is 20.8, the speedup ratio of DOMe can achieve up to 18; 3) DOMe improved the deduplication throughput by 1.5 times through the pure in-memory index optimization method. labels: #Databases, Factual#Programming Languages'
b'BACKGROUND: Vascular calcification is associated with structural and functional abnormality of the heart and blood vessels. We investigated the relationship between intradialytic hypotension (IDH) and vascular calcification in hemodialysis (HD) patients, and their impacts on cardiovascular events (CVEs).METHOD: We enrolled 191 maintenance HD patients who underwent plain abdomen radiography for abdominal aortic calcification score (AACS). A nadir systolic blood pressure (BP)<90 mm Hg or the requirement of bolus fluid administration was required to quantify the hypotension diagnosis. IDH was defined as>2 hypotension episodes during 10 HD treatments.RESULTS: Among the 191 patients, IDH occurred in 32. AACS was higher in the IDH group compared with the no-IDH group (8.4 \xc2\xb1 6.0 vs. 4.9 \xc2\xb1 5.2, respectively; P = 0.001). High AACS was an independent risk factor after adjustment for age, diabetes mellitus, ultrafiltration, diastolic BP, and calcium level (odds ratio (OR) = 1.09, 95% CI = 1.01-1.18; P = 0.03). Patients with both IDH and AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 had the highest cumulative CVE rate (27.9%, P = 0.008) compared with 11.2%, 12.5%, and 6% for those with AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 only, with IDH only, and neither, respectively. In multivariate analysis, the presence of both IDH and AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 was a significant predictor of CVE (hazard ratio (HR) = 2.84, 95% CI = 1.04-7.74, P = 0.04).CONCLUSION: IDH is associated with abdominal aortic calcification and is an independent risk factor for IDH. Both IDH and high AACS were significant predictors of CVE. labels: #Aged#Aorta#Female#Humans#Hypotension#Male#Middle Aged#Renal Dialysis#Vascular Calcification'
b'Prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) in children is increasing and identifying the risk factors for MetS during childhood is an important first step to prevent chronic diseases later in life. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence of MetS and cardiometabolic risk factor (CMRF) clustering among Korean children and adolescents and to validate the associated anthropometric and laboratory surrogate markers. We used data from the 2011-2014 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. In total, data for 2,935 subjects (1539 boys, 52.6%) aged 10-19 years were assessed. MetS was defined by central obesity plus any two or more of CMRFs such as abdominal obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and decreased high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) using the International Diabetes Federation criteria for children and adolescents. The presence of two or more CMRFs was classified as CMRF clustering. The prevalence of MetS and CMRF clustering in this group was found to be 1.8% and 8.9%, respectively. The receiver operating characteristic analysis of MetS and CMRF clustering, and the area under the curve (95% confidence interval) of surrogate markers revealed that the waist circumference to height ratio [0.960 (95% CI 0.959-0.960), cut-off 0.491]showed the highest predictability for MetS whereas triglyceride to HDL-C ratio [0.891 (95% CI 0.891-0.892), cut-off 2.63] showed the highest predictability for CMRF clustering. Long-term follow-up is needed for further validation. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Biomarkers#Child#Cluster Analysis#Female#Humans#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Nutrition Surveys#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The influenza B viruses belong to two lineages distinguished by their genetic and antigenic characteristics, which are referred to as the Yamagata and Victoria lineages, designated after their original isolates, B/Yamagata/16/88 and B/Victoria/2/87. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate the molecular characteristics of influenza B viruses circulating in a region of Northern Italy, Lombardia, during the influenza season of 2015-2016.METHODS: Influenza B virus was detected using a respiratory virus panel of assays and an influenza B-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction. The complete influenza B hemagglutinin (HA) gene was amplified and sequenced directly from clinical specimens. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using nucleotide sequences.RESULTS: A total of 71 hospitalized pediatric patients were influenza B positive. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the great majority of influenza B strains (66/71, 93.0%) belonged to the Victoria-lineage and were antigenically like vaccine strain (B/Brisbane/60/2008) included only in the quadrivalent vaccine. In the detected influenza B strains, a series of amino acid changes were observed in the antigenic regions: I117V, V124A, N129D, V146I, N197D, T199A, and A202T. However, only 2 amino acid changes were observed in the HA regions involved in receptor binding or in antibody recognition.CONCLUSIONS: All the influenza B strains identified in this study belonged to the influenza B Victoria lineage not included in the trivalent vaccine commonly used by the general population during the 2015-2016 influenza season in Italy. This indicates that protection against influenza B infection in the vaccinated population was in general very poor during the 2015-2016 influenza season. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Child#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Influenza B virus#Influenza, Human#Italy#Phylogeny#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Viral Proteins'
b'Ototoxicity is a significant side effect of a number of drugs, including the aminoglycoside antibiotics and platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents that are used to treat life-threatening illnesses. Although much progress has been made, the mechanisms that lead to ototoxic loss of inner ear sensory hair cells (HCs) remains incompletely understood. Given the critical role of protein phosphorylation in intracellular processes, including both damage and survival signaling, we screened a library of kinase inhibitors targeting members of all the major families in the kinome. Micro-explants from the organ of Corti of mice in which only the sensory cells express GFP were exposed to 200 \xce\xbcM of the ototoxic aminoglycoside gentamicin with or without three dosages of each kinase inhibitor. The loss of sensory cells was compared to that seen with gentamicin alone, or without treatment. Of the 160 inhibitors, 15 exhibited a statistically significant protective effect, while 3 significantly enhanced HC loss. The results confirm some previous studies of kinase involvement in HC damage and survival, and also highlight several novel potential kinase pathway contributions to ototoxicity. labels: #Aminoglycosides#Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Enzyme Inhibitors#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Organ of Corti#Phosphotransferases'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent studies on the variants in duplicated human alpha globin genes (HBA2 and HBA1) actively target the \xce\xb1-globin gene as molecular modulators for the treatment of \xce\xb2-thalassemia major. Identification of the exact position of variant in HBA1, HBA2 or its patchworks is mandatory to support the therapeutic aims in \xce\xb2-thalassemia major, by identifying specific modulators for the reactivation of fetal hemoglobin production. Hence, accurate identification of the variants in \xce\xb1-globin genes is crucial for the proper diagnosis, treatment and genetic counseling.METHOD: The objective was to reveal the annotation errors produced in \xce\xb1-globin gene sequence analysis while using different analytic tools. An HBA2 gene sequence with the HBA2:c.95+2_95+6delTGAGG variant and a recently reported HBA12 gene convert have been taken as examples to prove annotation error in \xce\xb1-globin gene from different analytic tools.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Although various bioinformatics tools used to predict variants are usually of high reliability, the current study using the an alpha globin 2 sequence with the HBA2:c.95+2_95+6delTGAGG variant and a recently reported HBA12 gene convert, has showcased ambiguous outputs among the three bioinformatics tools used and against the manual analytical method adopted.CONCLUSIONS: This report emphasizes the necessity for caution in the usage of DNA sequence analysis tools during molecular diagnosis and the importance of the selection of more appropriate tools for analysis. Furthermore, ethnic specific sequences should be considered as reference sequence for the analysis to bypass sequence dissimilarities among diverse populations. labels: #Humans#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#alpha-Globins#beta-Thalassemia'
b'OBJECTIVE: To explore the association of working hours and occupational physical activity (OPA) with the occurrence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in a Chinese population.METHODS: A total of 595 participants (354 and 241 patients with and without CHD, respectively) aged between 24 and 65 were enrolled in our study, which was conducted at the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University between December 2015 and October 2016. Participant characteristics were collected from face-to-face questionnaires, and logistic regression analysis was conducted to examine the association of working hours and OPA with the occurrence of CHD.RESULTS: Compared with non-employed people, long working hours (especially \xe2\x89\xa555 hours/week) contributed to the occurrence of CHD (adjusted odds ratio[OR] = 2.213, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.125, 4.355, P = 0.021) after multivariate adjustment in the Chinese population. With the extension of worktime, the CHD risk increased (P for the dose-response trend = 0.022). Meanwhile, even after adjusting for engagement in physical activity during leisure time, sedentary behavior at work had an adverse effect on CHD risk (adjusted OR = 2.794, 95%CI: 1.526, 5.115, P = 0.001), and a linear relationship was also found between OPA and CHD (P for the trend = 0.005).CONCLUSIONS: Long working hours and sedentary behavior at work are associated with a high risk of CHD. In addition, prolonged working hours in sedentary occupations increases the risk of CHD, independent of engagement in leisure time physical activity. labels: #Case-Control Studies#China#Coronary Disease#Employment#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupations'
b"BACKGROUND: The knowledge on health interests of a given population of Internet users might contribute to the increase of evidence on community's dental needs, and consequently, to the improvement of public health planning. The frequency of searches for specific issues on Google can be analyzed by the application of Google Trends.AIM: In this study, we aimed to characterize the interests on toothache information of Google users from the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Brazil.METHODS: The monthly variation of relative search volume (RSV) and the lists of main toothache-related queries were determined from January 2004 through April 2016 using Google Trends. Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) forecasting models were developed to determine predictive RSV values for toothache for additional 12 months. Autocorrelation plots and general additive model (GAM) were applied to determine trends and seasonality in RSV curves. Through linear regression models, we assessed the association between the variation of annual means of RSV values and national statistics for toothache in the U.S. and U.K. Subsequently, the distribution of main queries according to the identification of endodontic pain, type of searching information, and the interest in self-management of toothache was evaluated for the four countries.RESULTS: The autocorrelation plots showed patterns of non-stationary time series. The monthly variation influenced the data of the U.S. and U.K., with the higher RSV values found respectively in January/July and December. Also, the interest on toothache in the U.K. increases in the second semester and in the fourth quarter, especially in December. Additionally, an annual variation affected significantly all time series, with the increment of RSV means over the years, varying from 265% in the U.S. to 745% in Brazil. In parallel, the increments in RSV values were also observed in all predictive curves. The annual variation of observed and fitted RSV values was directly associated with the increase of toothache visits in the U.S. and urgent dental treatments in the U.K. Moreover, the queries typed on Google were markedly linked to searches on endodontic pain information, especially in Brazil, where the residents usually searched for relief and/or self-management of pain.CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, these findings indicate an increasing interest of Google users on toothache-related topics, regardless of country and season. The Internet activity can be used by policy makers as a complementary source of data for the development and implementation of strategies to control and prevent toothache complications. labels: #Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Internet#Search Engine#Toothache"
b'BACKGROUND: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) has high mortality rate but prognostic factors are not well established. The aim of our study was to evaluate the trend in in-hospital mortality over a period of 11 years and identify factors affecting the clinical outcomes of patients with IPA.METHOD: We conducted a nationwide inpatient population study using data from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. A total of 407 IPA patients from 2002 to 2012 were included in the study. Differences in demographics, comorbidities, and treatment were evaluated between in-hospital death group and survival group. Multivariate analysis was also performed to identify risk factors for mortality.RESULT: Male patients represented 63.14% of the patients (n = 257) and the mean age was 53.15 \xc2\xb1 20.93 years. Hematological cancer (n = 216, 53.07%) and diabetes mellitus (n = 75, 18.43%) were the most common underlying conditions. The overall case fatality rate was 30.22% with female slightly higher then male (32.67% versus 28.79%). The in-hospital case fatality rate increased since 2002 and peaked in 2006. It then declined over time with an in-hospital mortality of 25% in 2012. The in-hospital death group had a higher intubation rate (p<0.0001), a longer ICU stay (p = 0.0062), higher percentages of DM (p = 0.0412) and COPD (p = 0.0178), and a lower percentage of hematological cancer (p = 0.0079) as compared to survivor. The in-hospital death group was more likely to have steroid treatment (p<0.0001), develop acute renal failure (p<0.0001) and other infectious diseases (p = 0.0008) during hospitalization. Multivariate analysis identified female gender, older age (\xe2\x89\xa5 65 years old), intubation, bone marrow transplantation, acute renal failure, other infectious diseases and steroid use as predictive factors for mortality.CONCLUSION: The present study shows the trend in mortality among patients with IPA over an 11-year period. Female gender, older age, intubation, bone marrow transplantation, acute renal failure, other infectious diseases and steroid use were identified as risk factors for mortality. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Taiwan#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Genomic loci with regulatory potential can be annotated with various properties. For example, genomic sites bound by a given transcription factor (TF) can be divided according to whether they are proximal or distal to known promoters. Sites can be further labeled according to the cell types and conditions in which they are active. Given such a collection of labeled sites, it is natural to ask what sequence features are associated with each annotation label. However, discovering such label-specific sequence features is often confounded by overlaps between the labels; e.g. if regulatory sites specific to a given cell type are also more likely to be promoter-proximal, it is difficult to assess whether motifs identified in that set of sites are associated with the cell type or associated with promoters. In order to meet this challenge, we developed SeqUnwinder, a principled approach to deconvolving interpretable discriminative sequence features associated with overlapping annotation labels. We demonstrate the novel analysis abilities of SeqUnwinder using three examples. Firstly, SeqUnwinder is able to unravel sequence features associated with the dynamic binding behavior of TFs during motor neuron programming from features associated with chromatin state in the initial embryonic stem cells. Secondly, we characterize distinct sequence properties of multi-condition and cell-specific TF binding sites after controlling for uneven associations with promoter proximity. Finally, we demonstrate the scalability of SeqUnwinder to discover cell-specific sequence features from over one hundred thousand genomic loci that display DNase I hypersensitivity in one or more ENCODE cell lines. labels: #Binding Sites#Cell Line#Cell Lineage#Chromatin#Computational Biology#Deoxyribonuclease I#Embryonic Stem Cells#Gene Expression Regulation#Genetic Loci#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Regulatory Sequences, Nucleic Acid#Software#Transcription Factors'
b'The aim of the present study was to examine the role of PGC-1\xce\xb1 in intensity dependent exercise and exercise training-induced metabolic adaptations in mouse skeletal muscle. Whole body PGC-1\xce\xb1 knockout (KO) and littermate wildtype (WT) mice performed a single treadmill running bout at either low intensity (LI) for 40 min or moderate intensity (MI) for 20 min. Blood and quadriceps muscles were removed either immediately after exercise or at 3h or 6h into recovery from exercise and from resting controls. In addition PGC-1\xce\xb1 KO and littermate WT mice were exercise trained at either low intensity (LIT) for 40 min or at moderate intensity (MIT) for 20 min 2 times pr. day for 5 weeks. In the first and the last week of the intervention period, mice performed a graded running endurance test. Quadriceps muscles were removed before and after the training period for analyses. The acute exercise bout elicited intensity dependent increases in LC3I and LC3II protein and intensity independent decrease in p62 protein in skeletal muscle late in recovery and increased LC3II with exercise training independent of exercise intensity and volume in WT mice. Furthermore, acute exercise and exercise training did not increase LC3I and LC3II protein in PGC-1\xce\xb1 KO. In addition, exercise-induced mRNA responses of PGC-1\xce\xb1 isoforms were intensity dependent. In conclusion, these findings indicate that exercise intensity affected autophagy markers differently in skeletal muscle and suggest that PGC-1\xce\xb1 regulates both acute and exercise training-induced autophagy in skeletal muscle potentially in a PGC-1\xce\xb1 isoform specific manner. labels: #Animals#Epinephrine#Female#Glycogen#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma Coactivator 1-alpha#Phosphorylation#Physical Conditioning, Animal#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'BACKGROUND: Therapeutic interchange of a same class medication for an outpatient medication is a widespread practice during hospitalization in response to limited hospital formularies. However, therapeutic interchange may increase risk of medication errors. The objective was to characterize the prevalence and safety of therapeutic interchange.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Secondary analysis of a transitions of care study. We included patients over age 64 admitted to a tertiary care hospital between 2009-2010 with heart failure, pneumonia, or acute coronary syndrome who were taking a medication in any of six commonly-interchanged classes on admission: proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2 blockers), hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). There was limited electronic medication reconciliation support available. Main measures were presence and accuracy of therapeutic interchange during hospitalization, and rate of medication reconciliation errors on discharge. We examined charts of 303 patients taking 555 medications at time of admission in the six medication classes of interest. A total of 244 (44.0%) of medications were therapeutically interchanged to an approved formulary drug at admission, affecting 64% of the study patients. Among the therapeutically interchanged drugs, we identified 78 (32.0%) suspected medication conversion errors. The discharge medication reconciliation error rate was 11.5% among the 244 therapeutically interchanged medications, compared with 4.2% among the 311 unchanged medications (relative risk [RR] 2.75, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.45-5.19).CONCLUSIONS: Therapeutic interchange was prevalent among hospitalized patients in this study and elevates the risk for potential medication errors during and after hospitalization. Improved electronic systems for managing therapeutic interchange and medication reconciliation may be valuable. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Male#Medication Reconciliation#Patient Discharge#Retrospective Studies'
b'The prognosis of paraquat (PQ) poisoning is highly correlated to plasma PQ concentration, which has been identified as the most important index in PQ poisoning. This study investigated the predictive value of coagulation, liver, and kidney indices in prognosticating PQ-poisoning patients, when aligned with plasma PQ concentrations. Coagulation, liver, and kidney indices were first analyzed by variance analysis, receiver operating characteristic curves, and Fisher discriminant analysis. Then, a new, intelligent, machine learning-based system was established to effectively provide prognostic analysis of PQ-poisoning patients based on a combination of the aforementioned indices. In the proposed system, an enhanced extreme learning machine wrapped with a grey wolf-optimization strategy was developed to predict the risk status from a pool of 103 patients (56 males and 47 females); of these, 52 subjects were deceased and 51 alive. The proposed method was rigorously evaluated against this real-life dataset, in terms of accuracy, Matthews correlation coefficients, sensitivity, and specificity. Additionally, the feature selection was investigated to identify correlating factors for risk status. The results demonstrated that there were significant differences in the coagulation, liver, and kidney indices between deceased and surviving subjects (p<0.05). Aspartate aminotransferase, prothrombin time, prothrombin activity, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, urea nitrogen, and creatinine were the most highly correlated indices in PQ poisoning and showed statistical significance (p<0.05) in predicting PQ-poisoning prognoses. According to the feature selection, the most important correlated indices were found to be associated with aspartate aminotransferase, the aspartate aminotransferase to alanine ratio, creatinine, prothrombin time, and prothrombin activity. The method proposed here showed excellent results that were better than that produced based on blood-PQ concentration alone. These promising results indicated that the combination of these indices can provide a new avenue for prognosticating the outcome of PQ poisoning. labels: #Blood Coagulation#Herbicides#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Function Tests#Liver#Liver Function Tests#Machine Learning#Paraquat#Prognosis'
b"Many of the world's food-insecure and undernourished people are smallholder farmers in developing countries. This is especially true in Africa. There is an urgent need to make smallholder agriculture and food systems more nutrition-sensitive. African farm households are known to consume a sizeable part of what they produce at home. Less is known about how much subsistence agriculture actually contributes to household diets, and how this contribution changes seasonally. We use representative data from rural Ethiopia covering every month of one full year to address this knowledge gap. On average, subsistence production accounts for 58% of rural households' calorie consumption, that is, 42% of the calories consumed are from purchased foods. Some seasonal variation occurs. During the lean season, purchased foods account for more than half of all calories consumed. But even during the main harvest and post-harvest season, purchased foods contribute more than one-third to total calorie consumption. Markets are even more important for dietary quality. During all seasons, purchased foods play a much larger role for dietary diversity than subsistence production. These findings suggest that strengthening rural markets needs to be a key element in strategies to improve food security and dietary quality in the African small-farm sector. labels: #Agriculture#Developing Countries#Diet#Ethiopia#Food Supply#Rural Population#Seasons"
b'BACKGROUND: The incidence of oropharyngeal cancer (OPC) in New Zealand (NZ) has more than doubled over the last 14 years with 126 cases in 2010. Overseas studies have shown that human papillomavirus (HPV) plays a significant role in the development of these cancers. However, the role of HPV in OPC and the burden on the NZ health system is unclear.AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence and the genotypes of HPV associated with OPC in New Zealand.METHODS: In this study, 621 OPC were identified from cancer registry data from 1996-98, 2003-05, and 2010-12. Biopsies of 267 cases were then retrieved from laboratories throughout New Zealand. p16 immunohistochemistry and a human beta globin PCR were performed on all specimens. HPV genotyping was performed on all beta globin positive specimens using real-time PCR with melt analysis.RESULTS: Using a p16/PCR algorithm, 77.9% (95% CI: 71.1-83.5%) of cases were attributable to HPV. Of these, 98.5% were HPV 16 positive. There was also one case each of HPV 33 and 35. The percentage of HPV positive cases increased from 61.9% (95% CI: 40.9%- 79.2%) in 1996-98 to 87.5% (95% CI: 79.8%- 92.5%) in 2010-12. Results from the multivariable model, adjusted for sex and ethnicity found statistically significant associations between HPV positivity and timeframe (OR: 5.65, 95% CI: 2.60-12.30, 2010-12 vs 1996-98), and between HPV positivity and patient age (OR: 0.55, 95% CI: 0.33-0.99, \xe2\x89\xa561 years vs \xe2\x89\xa460 years).CONCLUSIONS: This data is consistent with data from other developed countries showing an increase in cases of HPV positive OPC in New Zealand, and the majority of cases being attributable to HPV 16. These results support the recent inclusion of males into the nationally funded immunization schedule for Gardasil\xc2\xae 9. labels: #Alphapapillomavirus#DNA, Viral#Humans#New Zealand#Oropharyngeal Neoplasms#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Registries'
b'Several authors have studied the influence of light on both human physiology and emotions. Blue light has been proved to reduce sleepiness by suppression of melatonin secretion and it is also present in many emotion-related studies. Most of these have a common lack of objective methodology since results and conclusions are based on subjective perception of emotions. The aim of this work was the objective assessment of the effect of blue lighting in post-stress relaxation, in comparison with white lighting, by means of bio-signals and standardized procedures. We conducted a study in which twelve healthy volunteers were stressed and then performed a relaxation session within a chromotherapy room with blue (test group) or white (control group) lighting. We conclude that the blue lighting accelerates the relaxation process after stress in comparison with conventional white lighting. The relaxation time decreased by approximately three-fold (1.1 vs. 3.5 minutes). We also observed a convergence time (3.5-5 minutes) after which the advantage of blue lighting disappeared. This supports the relationship between color of light and stress, and the observations reported in previous works. These findings could be useful in clinical and educational environments, as well as in daily-life context and emerging technologies such as neuromarketing. However, our study must be extended to draw reliable conclusions and solid scientific evidence. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Color#Electrocardiography#Electroencephalography#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Light#Male#Relaxation Therapy#Stress, Psychological#Young Adult'
b'The gender gap in STEM fields has prompted a great deal of discussion, but what factors underlie performance deficits remain poorly understood. We show that female students underperformed on exams compared to their male counterparts across ten large introductory biology course sections in fall 2016 (N>1500 students). Females also reported higher levels of test anxiety and course-relevant science interest. Results from mediation analyses revealed an intriguing pattern: for female students only, and regardless of their academic standing, test anxiety negatively impacted exam performance, while interest in the course-specific science topics increased exam performance. Thus, instructors seeking equitable classrooms can aim to decrease test anxiety and increase student interest in science course content. We provide strategies for mitigating test anxiety and suggestions for alignment of course content with student interest, with the hope of successfully reimagining the STEM pathway as one that is equally accessible to all. labels: #Biology#Female#Humans#Male#Sex Factors'
b"AIMS: To examine whether physical activity as an adjunct to outpatient alcohol treatment has an effect on alcohol consumption following participation in an exercise intervention of six months' duration, and at 12 months after treatment initiation.METHODS: The study is a randomized controlled study with three arms: Patients allocated to (A) treatment as usual, (B) treatment as usual and supervised group exercise, (C) treatment as usual and individual physical exercise. The primary outcome measure was excessive drinking six months after treatment start and completion of the intervention. A logistic regression model was used to evaluate the odds of excessive drinking among the three groups, based on intention-to-treat. Changes in level of physical activity in all three groups were tested by using a generalized linear mixed model. A multiple linear model was used to test if there was an association between amount of performed physical activity and alcohol consumption.RESULTS: A total of 175 patients (68.6% male) participated. Response rates were 77.7% at six months and 57.1% at 12 months follow-up. OR 0.99 [95% CI: 0.46; 2.14], p = 0.976 for excessive drinking in the group exercise condition, and 1.02 [95% CI: 0.47; 2.18], p = 0.968 in the individual exercise condition, which, when compared to the control group as reference, did not differ statistically significantly. Participants with moderate level physical activity had lower odds for excessive drinking OR = 0.12 [0.05; 0.31], p<0.001 than participants with low level physical activity. Amount of alcohol consumption in the intervention groups decreased by 4% [95% CI: 0.03; 6.8], p = 0.015 for each increased exercising day.CONCLUSIONS: No direct effect of physical exercise on drinking outcome was found. Moderate level physical activity was protective against excessive drinking following treatment. A dose-response effect of exercise on drinking outcome supports the need for implementing physically active lifestyles for patients in treatment for alcohol use disorder. labels: #Adult#Alcohol-Related Disorders#Denmark#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged"
b"PURPOSES: Restorative proctocolectomy (RPC) with ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA) is the procedure of choice for patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and ulcerative colitis (UC) despite morbidities that can lead to pouch failure. We aimed to identify factors associated with pouch-related morbidities.METHODS: A retrospective analysis of patients who underwent RPC with IPAA was performed. To investigate the factors associated with pouch-related morbidities, patients' preoperative demographic and clinical factors, and intraoperative factors were included in the analysis.RESULTS: A total of 49 patients with UC, FAP, and colorectal cancer were included. Twenty patients (40.8%) experienced leakage-related, functional, and/or pouchitis-related morbidities. Patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade 2 or 3 had a higher risk of functional morbidity than those with grade 1. Intraoperative blood loss exceeding 300.0 mL was associated with an increased risk of pouchitis-related morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated associations of higher ASA grade and increased intraoperative blood loss with poor functional outcomes and pouchitis, respectively. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Proctocolectomy, Restorative#Treatment Outcome"
b'The roots of land plants associate with microbes, including fungal symbionts that can confer abiotic stress tolerance. Bitumen extraction following oil-sand surface mining in the Athabasca region of Alberta, Canada removes plant nutrients but leaves a petrochemical residue, making the coarse tailings (CT) hostile to both plants and microbes. We isolated an endophyte strain of the Ascomycete Trichoderma harzianum we call TSTh20-1 (hereafter, TSTh) from a dandelion that was naturally growing on CT. TSTh colonization allowed tomato, wheat, and remediation seed mixtures to germinate and their seedlings to flourish on CT without the use of fertilizer. Compared to control plants, TSTh increased germination speed, percent germination, and biomass accumulation. TSTh also improved plant water use efficiency and drought recovery. TSTh-colonized plants secreted twice the level of peroxidase into CT as did plants alone. Over two months, plants colonized with TSTh doubled the petrochemical mobilization from CT over plants alone, suggesting a peroxide-mediated mechanism for petrochemical degradation. TSTh grew on autoclaved CT, bitumen, and other petrochemicals as sole carbon sources. Further, TSTh is a micro-aerobe that could metabolize 13C-phenanthrene to 13CO2 in 0.5% oxygen. TSTh has excellent potential for contributing to revegetating and remediating petrochemical contamination. labels: #Fungi#Plant Development#Soil#Symbiosis'
b'BACKGROUND: Monitoring cardiac output (CO) is important to optimize hemodynamic function in critically ill patients. The prevalence of aortic valve insufficiency (AI) is rising in the aging population. However, reliability of CO monitoring techniques in AI is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of AI on accuracy, precision, and trending ability of transcardiopulmonary thermodilution-derived COTCPTD in comparison with pulmonary artery catheter thermodilution COPAC.METHODS: Sixteen anesthetized domestic pigs were subjected to serial simultaneous measurements of COPAC and COTCPTD. In a novel experimental model, AI was induced by retraction of an expanded Dormia basket in the aortic valve annulus. The Dormia basket was delivered via a Judkins catheter guided by substernal epicardial echocardiography. High (HPC), moderate (MPC) and low cardiac preload conditions (LPC) were induced by fluid unloading (20 ml kg-1 blood withdrawal) and loading (subsequent retransfusion of the shed blood and additional infusion of 20 ml kg-1 hydroxyethyl starch). Within each preload condition CO was measured before and after the onset of AI. For statistical analysis, we used a mixed model analysis of variance, Bland-Altman analysis, the percentage error and concordance analysis.RESULTS: Experimental AI had a mean regurgitant volume of 33.6 \xc2\xb1 12.0 ml and regurgitant fraction of 42.9 \xc2\xb1 12.6%. The percentage error between COTCPTD and COPAC during competent valve function and after induction of substantial AI was: HPC 17.7% vs. 20.0%, MPC 20.5% vs. 26.1%, LPC 26.5% vs. 28.1% (pooled data: 22.5% vs. 24.1%). The ability to trend CO-changes induced by fluid loading and unloading did not differ between baseline and AI (concordance rate 95.8% during both conditions).CONCLUSION: Despite substantial AI, transcardiopulmonary thermodilution reliably measured CO under various cardiac preload conditions with a good ability to trend CO changes in a porcine model. COTCPTD and COPAC were interchangeable in substantial AI. labels: #Animals#Aortic Valve Insufficiency#Cardiac Output#Reproducibility of Results#Swine#Thermodilution'
b'BACKGROUND: Patients suffering from peritoneal carcinomatosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma were treated with Pressurized Intra Peritoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC), initial clinical findings are presented.METHODS: Single institution, tertiary referral center certified for therapy of peritoneal disease. Prospective data collection of PIPAC therapy with doxorubicin 1.5 mg/m2 and cisplatin 7.5 mg/m2 of body surface delivered at intervals of six weeks. The outcome criteria were microscopic pathological response, survival and adverse events (v4.0 CTCAE).RESULTS: A total of 20 patients (m/f = 3:1) with a mean age of 64.9 (range: 45.0 to 87.0) years underwent 41 PIPAC procedures without intraoperative complications. The mean number of PIPAC cycles was 2.1 (range: one to four). Ten patients with \xe2\x89\xa5 2 PIPAC applications were eligible for histological analysis to assess carcinoma regression. Complete or high grade tumor regression was found in two (10%) and five (25%) patients, respectively. An overall median survival of 36.6 weeks after the first PIPAC application was observed. One patient died postoperatively due to small bowel obstruction. No CTCAE level 3 and 4 complications occurred.CONCLUSION: In about one third of patients, repeated PIPAC therapy did induce histological regression of systemic chemo-resistant PC of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Prospective randomized trials are needed to further clarify any clinical impact of such observations. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aerosols#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Peritoneal Neoplasms'
b'Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a stress-activated transcription factor that induces a variety of cytoprotective genes. Nrf2 also mediates immunosuppressive effects in multiple inflammatory models. Upon activation, Nrf2 dissociates from its repressor protein, Keap1, and translocates to the nucleus where it induces Nrf2 target genes. The Nrf2-Keap1 interaction is disrupted by the environmental toxicant and chemotherapeutic agent arsenic trioxide (ATO). The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of ATO on early events of T cell activation and the role of Nrf2 in those effects. The Nrf2 target genes Hmox-1, Nqo-1, and Gclc were all upregulated by ATO (1-2 \xce\xbcM) in splenocytes derived from wild-type, but not Nrf2-null, mice, suggesting that Nrf2 is activated by ATO in splenocytes. ATO also inhibited IFN\xce\xb3, IL-2, and GM-CSF mRNA and protein production in wild-type splenocytes activated with the T cell activator, anti-CD3/anti-CD28. However, ATO also decreased production of these cytokines in activated splenocytes from Nrf2-null mice, suggesting the inhibition is independent of Nrf2. Interestingly, ATO inhibited TNF\xce\xb1 protein secretion, but not mRNA expression, in activated splenocytes suggesting the inhibition is due to post-transcriptional modification. In addition, c-Fos DNA binding was significantly diminished by ATO in wild-type and Nrf2-null splenocytes activated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28, consistent with the observed inhibition of cytokine production by ATO. Collectively, this study suggests that although ATO activates Nrf2 in splenocytes, inhibition of early T cell cytokine production by ATO occurs independently of Nrf2 and may instead be due to impaired AP-1 DNA binding. labels: #Animals#Antigens, CD#Arsenicals#Cytokines#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#Oxides#Spleen#T-Lymphocytes'
b'A closer association has been found between the microRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism and the risk of head and neck carcinoma in some molecular epidemiological studies. Recently two meta-analyses were performed to explore the relationship between miRNA-146a polymorphisms and the susceptibility of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN); however, they yielded conflicting results in susceptibility regarding ethnic variations. Hence, the present study was performed to explain the relationship between the miRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism and the risk of SCCHN development of Chinese patients. We retrieved databases and screened eligible papers up to March 10, 2017 and then we extracted the essential data. The subgroup analyses were also performed based on the tumor site, region, and genotyping means. Crude odds ratios (OR) at 95% confidence intervals (CI) were chosen to describe the strength of the association. As a result, 6 publications were included in our study which involved 8 independent case-control studies. A significant association was found between miR-146a rs2910164 polymorphisms and the risk of SCCHN in Chinese patients according to the overall data [CC+CG vs. GG: OR = 1.13; 95%CI = 1.00-1.29; CC vs. GG: OR = 1.19; 95%CI = 1.03-1.38]. According to the subgroup analysis based on tumor site, the risk of cancer was significantly increased among laryngeal cancer (dominant model: OR = 1.76, 95%CI = 1.26~2.46, P = 0.001; homozygote model: OR = 1.83, 95%CI = 1.25~2.67, P = 0.002) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma (homozygote model: OR = 1.41, 95%CI = 1.05~1.90, P = 0.022). In summary, variant alleles of miR-146a rs2910164 alleles may have an association with the increased risk of SCCHN in Chinese patients, and these associations differed based on tumor site. Further studies including a larger sample size will be necessary to clarify these results. labels: #Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Case-Control Studies#China#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#MicroRNAs#Polymorphism, Genetic'
b'Microbial translocation is now viewed as a central event in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammation during HIV infection. Thymic function failure is another crucial factor involved in HIV disease progression. The goal of this study was to explore the hypothesis of potential links between microbial translocation and thymic function in HIV-1 patients living in Belgium. The extent of microbial translocation was assessed through the measurement of soluble CD14 (sCD14). T-cell receptor excision circles (sjTRECs and d\xce\xb2TRECs) were used as a measure of thymic function. Data were collected from 75 HIV-infected patients. Simple and complex linear regressions were done to analyze the link between these two processes. We found a statistically relevant negative correlation between thymopoiesis (sjTREC) and sCD14 level (p = 0.004). These results suggest a link between thymic function failure, microbial translocation and innate immune activation. labels: #Belgium#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Lipopolysaccharide Receptors#Male#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Thymus Gland'
b'AtlA is the major peptidoglycan hydrolase of Enterococcus faecalis involved in cell division and cellular autolysis. The secreted zinc metalloprotease, gelatinase (GelE), has been identified as an important regulator of cellular function through post-translational modification of protein substrates. AtlA is a known target of GelE, and their interplay has been proposed to regulate AtlA function. To study the protease-mediated post-translational modification of AtlA, monoclonal antibodies were developed as research tools. Flow cytometry and Western blot analysis suggests that in the presence of GelE, surface-bound AtlA exists primarily as a N-terminally truncated form whereas in the absence of GelE, the N-terminal domain of AtlA is retained. We identified the primary GelE cleavage site occurring near the transition between the T/E rich Domain I and catalytic region, Domain II via N-terminal sequencing. Truncation of AtlA had no effect on the peptidoglycan hydrolysis activity of AtlA. However, we observed that N-terminal cleavage was required for efficient AtlA-mediated cell division while unprocessed AtlA was unable to resolve dividing cells into individual units. Furthermore, we observed that the processed AtlA has the propensity to localize to the cell septum on wild-type cells whereas unprocessed AtlA in the \xce\x94gelE strain were dispersed over the cell surface. Combined, these results suggest that AtlA septum localization and subsequent cell separation can be modulated by a single GelE-mediated N-terminal cleavage event, providing new insights into the post-translation modification of AtlA and the mechanisms governing chaining and cell separation. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Blotting, Western#Cell Separation#Enterococcus faecalis#Flow Cytometry#Metalloproteases#Zinc'
b'To assess potential physical interactions of type I phyA with the type II phyB-phyE phytochromes in vivo, transgenes expressing fusion gene forms of phyA were introduced into the Arabidopsis phyA mutant background. When a single c-Myc (myc) epitope is added to either the N- or C-terminus of phyA, the constructs completely complement phyA mutant phenotypes. However, addition of larger tags, such as six consecutive myc epitopes or the yellow fluorescent protein sequence, result in fusion proteins that show reduced activity. All the tagged phyA proteins migrate as dimers on native gels and co-immunoprecipitation reveals no binding interaction of phyA to any of the type II phys in the dark or under continuous far-red light. Dimers of the phyA 1-615 amino acid N-terminal photosensory domain (NphyA), generated in vivo with a yeast GAL4 dimerization domain and attached to a constitutive nuclear localization sequence, are expressed at a low level and, although they cause a cop phenotype in darkness and mediate a very low fluence response to pulses of FR, have no activity under continuous FR. It is concluded that type I phyA in its Pr form is present in plants predominantly or exclusively as a homodimer and does not stably interact with type II phys in a dimer-to-dimer manner. In addition, its activity in mediating response to continuous FR is sensitive to modification of its N- or C-terminus. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Dimerization#Phytochrome A#Transgenes'
b'We have applied correlative microscopy to identify the key constituents of a dorsal rib fossil from Koreanosaurus boseongensis and its hosting mudstone discovered at the rich fossil site in Boseong, South Korea, to investigate the factors that likely contributed to diagenesis and the preservation of fossil bone. Calcite and illite were the commonly occurring phases in the rib bone, hosting mudstone, and the boundary region in-between. The boundary region may have contributed to bone preservation once it fully formed by acting as a protective shell. Fluorapatite crystals in the rib bone matrix signified diagenetic alteration of the original bioapatite crystals. While calcite predominantly occupied vascular channels and cracks, platy illite crystals widely occupied miniscule pores throughout the bone matrix. Thorough transmission electron microscopy (TEM) study of illite within the bone matrix indicated the solid-state transformation of 1M to 2M without composition change, which was more evident from the lateral variation of 1M to 2M within the same layer. The high level of lattice disordering of 2M illite suggested an early stage of 1M to 2M transformation. Thus, the diagenetic alteration of both apatite and illite crystals within the bone matrix may have increased its overall density, as the preferred orientation of apatite crystals from moderate to strong degrees was evident despite the poor preservation of osteohistological features. The combined effects of rapid burial, formation of a boundary region, and diagenesis of illite and apatite within the bone matrix may have contributed to the rib bone preservation. labels: #Animals#Bone and Bones#Dinosaurs#Fossils#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'This study evaluated the chronic effects of fluoxetine, a commonly prescribed SSRI antidepressant, on the peripheral and central levels of inflammatory cytokines including IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-17 over a 4-interval in a rat model of chronic mild stress (CMS) which resembles the human experience of depression. Twenty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to CMS+vehicle (n = 9), CMS+fluoxetine (n = 9) and the control (n = 6) groups. Sucrose preference and forced swim tests were performed to assess behavioral change. Blood samples were collected on day 0, 60, 90 and 120 for measurement of cytokine levels in plasma. On day 120, the brain was harvested and central level of cytokines was tested using Luminex. Four months of fluoxetine treatment resulted in changes in the sucrose preference and immobility time measurements, commensurate with antidepressant effects. The CMS+vehicle group exhibited elevated plasma levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-17, and TNF-\xce\xb1 on day 60 or 120. Rats treated with fluoxetine demonstrated lower IL-1\xce\xb2 in plasma and brain after 90 and 120-day treatment respectively (p<0.05). There was a trend of reduction of IL-6 and TNF-\xce\xb1 concentration. This study revealed the potential therapeutic effects of fluoxetine by reducing central and peripheral levels of IL-1\xce\xb2 in the alleviation of depressive symptoms. labels: #Animals#Brain#Cytokines#Depression#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Fluoxetine#Inflammation Mediators#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Serotonin Uptake Inhibitors#Swimming'
b'The effects of Chinese pine (Pinus tabuliformis) on soil variables after afforestation have been established, but microbial community changes still need to be explored. Using high-throughput sequencing technology, we analyzed bacterial and fungal community composition and diversity in soils from three stands of different-aged, designated 12-year-old (PF1), 29-year-old (PF2), and 53-year-old (PF3), on a Chinese pine plantation and from a natural secondary forest (NSF) stand that was almost 80 years old. Abandoned farmland (BL) was also analyzed. Shannon index values of both bacterial and fungal community in PF1 were greater than those in PF2, PF3 and NSF. Proteobacteria had the lowest abundance in BL, and the abundance increased with stand age. The abundance of Actinobacteria was greater in BL and PF1 soils than those in other sites. Among fungal communities, the dominant taxa were Ascomycota in BL and PF1 and Basidiomycota in PF2, PF3 and NSF, which reflected the successional patterns of fungal communities during the development of Chinese pine plantations. Therefore, the diversity and dominant taxa of soil microbial community in stands 12 and 29 years of age appear to have undergone significant changes; afterward, the soil microbial community achieved a relatively stable state. Furthermore, the abundances of the most dominant bacterial and fungal communities correlated significantly with organic C, total N, C:N, available N, and available P, indicating the dependence of these microbes on soil nutrients. Overall, our findings suggest that the large changes in the soil microbial community structure of Chinese pine plantation forests may be attributed to the phyla present (e.g., Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Ascomycota and Basidiomycota) which were affected by soil carbon and nutrients in the Loess Plateau. labels: #Bacteria#China#Fungi#Pinus#Soil#Soil Microbiology'
b'Corynebacterium diphtheriae (Cd) is a Gram-positive human pathogen responsible for diphtheria infection and once regarded for high mortalities worldwide. The fatality gradually decreased with improved living standards and further alleviated when many immunization programs were introduced. However, numerous drug-resistant strains emerged recently that consequently decreased the efficacy of current therapeutics and vaccines, thereby obliging the scientific community to start investigating new therapeutic targets in pathogenic microorganisms. In this study, our contributions include the prediction of modelome of 13 C. diphtheriae strains, using the MHOLline workflow. A set of 463 conserved proteins were identified by combining the results of pangenomics based core-genome and core-modelome analyses. Further, using subtractive proteomics and modelomics approaches for target identification, a set of 23 proteins was selected as essential for the bacteria. Considering human as a host, eight of these proteins (glpX, nusB, rpsH, hisE, smpB, bioB, DIP1084, and DIP0983) were considered as essential and non-host homologs, and have been subjected to virtual screening using four different compound libraries (extracted from the ZINC database, plant-derived natural compounds and Di-terpenoid Iso-steviol derivatives). The proposed ligand molecules showed favorable interactions, lowered energy values and high complementarity with the predicted targets. Our proposed approach expedites the selection of C. diphtheriae putative proteins for broad-spectrum development of novel drugs and vaccines, owing to the fact that some of these targets have already been identified and validated in other organisms. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacterial Proteins#Bacterial Vaccines#Computer Simulation#Corynebacterium diphtheriae#Genome, Bacterial#Humans#Ligands#Models, Biological#Molecular Docking Simulation'
b'INTRODUCTION: Exposure to prenatal inflammation is associated with diverse adverse neurobehavioral outcomes in exposed offspring. The mechanism by which inflammation negatively impacts the developing brain is poorly understood. Metabolomic profiling provides an opportunity to identify specific metabolites, and novel pathways, which may reveal mechanisms by which exposure to intrauterine inflammation promotes fetal and neonatal brain injury. Therefore, we investigated whether exposure to intrauterine inflammation altered the metabolome of the amniotic fluid, fetal and neonatal brain. Additionally, we explored whether changes in the metabolomic profile from exposure to prenatal inflammation occurs in a sex-specific manner in the neonatal brain.METHODS: CD-1, timed pregnant mice received an intrauterine injection of lipopolysaccharide (50 \xce\xbcg/dam) or saline on embryonic day 15. Six and 48 hours later mice were sacrificed and amniotic fluid, and fetal brains were collected (n = 8/group). Postnatal brains were collected on day of life 1 (n = 6/group/sex). Global biochemical profiles were determined using ultra performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (Metabolon Inc.). Statistical analyses were performed by comparing samples from lipopolysaccharide and saline treated animals at each time point. For the P1 brains, analyses were stratified by sex.RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to intrauterine inflammation induced unique, temporally regulated changes in the metabolic profiles of amniotic fluid, fetal brain and postnatal brain. Six hours after exposure to intrauterine inflammation, the amniotic fluid and the fetal brain metabolomes were dramatically altered with significant enhancements of amino acid and purine metabolites. The amniotic fluid had enhanced levels of several members of the (hypo) xanthine pathway and this compound was validated as a potential biomarker. By 48 hours, the number of altered biochemicals in both the fetal brain and the amniotic fluid had declined, yet unique profiles existed. Neonatal pups exposed to intrauterine inflammation have significant alterations in their lipid metabolites, in particular, fatty acids. These sex-specific metabolic changes within the newborn brain offer an explanation regarding the sexual dimorphism of certain psychiatric and neurobehavioral disorders associated with exposure to prenatal inflammation. labels: #Amniotic Fluid#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Brain#Female#Inflammation#Metabolomics#Mice#Pregnancy#Uterus'
b'BACKGROUND & AIMS: The impact of marijuana on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is largely unknown. We studied the association between marijuana and NAFLD utilizing cross-sectional data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 2005-2014 and NHANES III (1988-1994).METHODS: Suspected NAFLD was diagnosed if serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was>30 IU/L for men and>19 IU/L for women in the absence of other liver diseases (NHANES 2005-2014). In NHANES III cohort, NAFLD was defined based on ultrasonography.RESULTS: Of the 14,080 (NHANES 2005-2014) and 8,286 (NHANES III) participants, prevalence of suspected NAFLD and ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD were inversely associated with marijuana use (p<0.001). Compared to marijuana-na\xc3\xafve participants, marijuana users were less likely to have suspected NAFLD (odds ratio [OR]: 0.90, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.82-0.99 for past user; OR: 0.68, 95% CI: 0.58-0.80 for current user) and ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD (OR: 0.75, 95% CI: 0.57-0.98 for current user) in the age, gender, ethnicity-adjusted model. On multivariate analysis, the ORs for suspected NAFLD comparing current light or heavy users to non-users were 0.76 (95% CI 0.58-0.98) and 0.70 (95% CI 0.56-0.89), respectively (P for trend = 0.001) with similar trends in ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD (OR: 0.77, 95% CI: 0.59-1.00 for current user; OR: 0.71, 95% CI: 0.51-0.97 for current light user). In insulin resistance-adjusted model, marijuana use remained an independent predictor of lower risk of suspected NAFLD.CONCLUSIONS: In this nationally representative sample, active marijuana use provided a protective effect against NAFLD independent of known metabolic risk factors. The pathophysiology is unclear and warrants further investigation. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Marijuana Smoking#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Ultrasonography#United States'
b'Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a poorly understood multifactorial pandemic disorder. One of the hallmarks of NAFLD, hepatic steatosis, is a common feature in canine congenital portosystemic shunts. The aim of this study was to gain detailed insight into the pathogenesis of steatosis in this large animal model. Hepatic lipid accumulation, gene-expression analysis and HPLC-MS of neutral lipids and phospholipids in extrahepatic (EHPSS) and intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (IHPSS) was compared to healthy control dogs. Liver organoids of diseased dogs and healthy control dogs were incubated with palmitic- and oleic-acid, and lipid accumulation was quantified using LD540. In histological slides of shunt livers, a 12-fold increase of lipid content was detected compared to the control dogs (EHPSS P<0.01; IHPSS P = 0.042). Involvement of lipid-related genes to steatosis in portosystemic shunting was corroborated using gene-expression profiling. Lipid analysis demonstrated different triglyceride composition and a shift towards short chain and omega-3 fatty acids in shunt versus healthy dogs, with no difference in lipid species composition between shunt types. All organoids showed a similar increase in triacylglycerols after free fatty acids enrichment. This study demonstrates that steatosis is probably secondary to canine portosystemic shunts. Unravelling the pathogenesis of this hepatic steatosis might contribute to a better understanding of steatosis in NAFLD. labels: #Animals#Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Dogs#Lipid Metabolism#Liver#Mass Spectrometry#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Portasystemic Shunt, Surgical'
b'BACKGROUND: Treatment satisfaction in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) may impact adherence and thus clinical outcomes. The objective of this study was to measure the satisfaction of patients with RRMS with injectable disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) and to evaluate the factors associated with treatment satisfaction.MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this observational retrospective study conducted in the neurology departments of 35 hospitals throughout Spain, demographic data, disease characteristics, and information on treatment with injectable DMTs were collected at a single scheduled visit. Treatment satisfaction was assessed using the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM), version 1.4. Patients also answered complementary questions about the factors that might affect treatment satisfaction. The data collected were analyzed descriptively. A regression model was used to explore the factors associated with treatment satisfaction.RESULTS: The study included 445 patients (mean\xc2\xb1SD age, 41\xc2\xb110.2 years; two-thirds women). The percentages treated with each DMT were Avonex 28.5%, Rebif 44 \xce\xbcg 24.5%, Copaxone 22.5%, Betaferon 13.0%, Rebif22 \xce\xbcg 8.3% and Extavia 3.1%. The mean\xc2\xb1SD overall satisfaction according to the TSQM was 68.8\xc2\xb118.6 and the highest overall satisfaction was reported for Rebif 22 \xce\xbcg (72.4\xc2\xb120.3) and the lowest for Extavia (61.7\xc2\xb123.7). In the regression analysis, rehabilitation, interference with social life, pain on injection and number of MS treatments received were significantly associated with a decrease in overall TSMQ score. A small but significant negative correlation was found between EDSS scores and TSMQ scores (rho = -0.11, p = 0.02) and effectiveness (rho = -0.17, p<0.001). A perceived inconvenience of injections was reflected by the stated preference of 83% for once-daily oral treatment over other administration routes.CONCLUSIONS: Patients on stable injectable DMT therapy were reasonably satisfied with their treatment. Our results suggest that the main source of dissatisfaction with the current treatment is the inconvenience of the administration regimen. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting#Patient Satisfaction'
b'INTRODUCTION: In donor health research, the \'Healthy Donor Effect\' (HDE) often biases study results and hampers their interpretation. This refers to the fact that donors are a selected \'healthier\' subset of a population due to both donor selection procedures and self-selection. Donors with long versus short donor careers, or with high versus low donation intensities are often compared to avoid this HDE, but underlying health differences might also cause these differences in behaviour. Our aim was to estimate to what extent a donor\xc2\xb4s perceived health status associates with donation cessation and intensity.METHODS: All active whole blood donors participating in Donor InSight (2007-2009; 11,107 male; 12,616 female) were included in this prospective cohort study. We performed Cox survival and Poisson regression analyses to assess whether self-reported health status, medication use, disease diagnosed by a physician and recently having consulted a general practitioner (GP) or specialist were associated with (time to) donation cessation and donation intensity.RESULTS: At the end of 2013, 44% of the donors in this study had stopped donating. Donors in self-rated good health had a 15% lower risk to stop donating compared to donors in perceived poorer health. Medication use, disease diagnoses and consulting a GP were associated with a 20-40% increased risk to stop donating and a lower donation intensity, when adjusting for age, number of donations and new donor status. Both men and women reporting good health made on average 10% more donations.CONCLUSION: Donors with a "good" health status were less likely to stop donating blood and tended to donate blood more often than donors with perceived poorer health status. This implies that the HDE is an important source of selection bias in studies on donor health and this includes studies where comparisons within donors are made. This HDE should be adjusted for appropriately when assessing health effects of donation and donors\' health status may provide estimates of future donation behavior. labels: #Adult#Blood Donors#Female#Health Status#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies'
b'We investigate the extent to which minority group members are surrounded by outgroup members in their immediate environment as a predictor of social dominance orientation. Using a large representative sample of New Zealanders, we found that minority group members in outgroup dense environments reported lower levels of social dominance orientation (Study 1). In studies 2 and 3, Asian Australian and Black American participants who were surrounded by outgroup members reported lower social dominance orientation. For majority group (White) participants there was no association between social dominance orientation and outgroup density. Study 4 explained the overall pattern: Black Americans surrounded by outgroup members perceived their group to be of lower status in their immediate environment, and through this, reported lower social dominance orientation. This article adds to growing literature on contextual factors that predict social dominance orientation, especially among minority group members. labels: #Continental Population Groups#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#New Zealand#Social Dominance'
b'Gut microbiota facilitate many aspects of human health and development, but dysbiotic microbiota can promote hyperplasia and inflammation and contribute to human diseases such as cancer. Human patients infected with the gastric cancer-causing bacterium Helicobacter pylori have altered microbiota; however, whether dysbiosis contributes to disease in this case is unknown. Many H. pylori human disease phenotypes are associated with a potent virulence protein, CagA, which is translocated into host epithelial cells where it alters cell polarity and manipulates host-signaling pathways to promote disease. We hypothesized that CagA alone could contribute to H. pylori pathogenesis by inducing microbial dysbiosis that promotes disease. Here we use a transgenic Drosophila model of CagA expression to genetically disentangle the effects of the virulence protein CagA from that of H. pylori infection. We found that expression of CagA within Drosophila intestinal stem cells promotes excess cell proliferation and is sufficient to alter host microbiota. Rearing CagA transgenic flies germ-free revealed that the dysbiotic microbiota contributes to cell proliferation phenotypes and also elicits expression of innate immune components, Diptericin and Duox. Further investigations revealed interspecies interactions are required for this dysbiotic CagA-dependent microbiota to promote proliferation in CagA transgenic and healthy control Drosophila. Our model establishes that CagA can alter gut microbiota and exacerbate cell proliferation and immune phenotypes previously attributed to H. pylori infection. This work provides valuable new insights into the mechanisms by which interactions between a specific virulence factor and the resident microbiota can contribute to the development and progression of disease. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Antigens, Bacterial#Bacterial Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Drosophila melanogaster#Epithelial Cells#Female#Helicobacter pylori#Inflammation#Intestines'
b'A priority for biomedical research is to understand the causes of variation in susceptibility to infection. To investigate genetic variation in a model system, we used flies collected from single populations of three different species of Drosophila and artificially selected them for resistance to the parasitoid wasp Leptopilina boulardi, and found that survival rates increased 3 to 30 fold within 6 generations. Resistance in all three species involves a large increase in the number of the circulating hemocytes that kill parasitoids. However, the different species achieve this in different ways, with D. melanogaster moving sessile hemocytes into circulation while the other species simply produce more cells. Therefore, the convergent evolution of the immune phenotype has different developmental bases. These changes are costly, as resistant populations of all three species had greatly reduced larval survival. In all three species resistance is only costly when food is in short supply, and resistance was rapidly lost from D. melanogaster populations when food is restricted. Furthermore, evolving resistance to L. boulardi resulted in cross-resistance against other parasitoids. Therefore, whether a population evolves resistance will depend on ecological conditions including food availability and the presence of different parasite species. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Disease Resistance#Drosophila#Immunity, Cellular#Species Specificity#Wasps'
b'Domain I (DI) of beta-2-glycoprotein I (\xce\xb22GPI) contains the immunodominant epitope for pathogenic antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). DI is exposed in the linear form of the molecule but not in the circular form that comprises 90% of serum \xce\xb22GPI. The majority of circulating \xce\xb22GPI is biochemically reduced with two free thiols in Domain V. However, increased levels of oxidised \xce\xb22GPI are found in patients with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). It is not known whether oxidation of \xce\xb22GPI favours the linear form of the molecule and thus promotes development of anti-DI antibodies. We investigated whether the proportion of oxidised \xce\xb22GPI associates with the presence of anti-DI in APS patients. Serum samples from 44 APS patients were screened for IgG, IgM and IgA anti-DI, anti-\xce\xb22GPI, anti-cardiolipin (anti-CL) and biochemically reduced \xce\xb22GPI. A negative correlation was found between the proportion of \xce\xb22GPI in the biochemically reduced form and IgG anti-DI levels (r = -0.54, p = 0.0002), but not with IgM or IgA anti-DI. Moreover, the proportion of \xce\xb22GPI in the reduced form was lower in IgG anti-DI positive than anti-DI negative APS patients (p = 0.02). The relative amount of reduced \xce\xb22GPI was no different between patients who were positive or negative for IgG, IgM and IgA anti-\xce\xb22GPI or anti-CL. This study demonstrates that oxidised \xce\xb22GPI lacking free cysteine-thiol groups most closely associates with IgG anti-DI positivity compared to IgG anti-CL and anti-\xce\xb22GPI. Future studies are required to ascertain the directionality of this association to define causation. labels: #Adult#Antiphospholipid Syndrome#Autoantibodies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidation-Reduction#beta 2-Glycoprotein I'
b'Severe hepatic inflammation is a common cause of acute liver injury following systemic infection with Ehrlichia, obligate Gram-negative intracellular bacteria that lack lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We have previously shown that type I IFN (IFN-I) and inflammasome activation are key host-pathogenic mediators that promote excessive inflammation and liver damage following fatal Ehrlichia infection. However, the underlying signals and mechanisms that regulate protective immunity and immunopathology during Ehrlichia infection are not well understood. To address this issue, we compared susceptibility to lethal Ixodes ovatus Ehrlichia (IOE) infection between wild type (WT) and MyD88-deficient (MyD88-/-) mice. We show here that MyD88-/- mice exhibited decreased inflammasome activation, attenuated liver injury, and were more resistant to lethal infection than WT mice, despite suppressed protective immunity and increased bacterial burden in the liver. MyD88-dependent inflammasome activation was also dependent on activation of the metabolic checkpoint kinase mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), inhibition of autophagic flux, and defective mitophagy in macrophages. Blocking mTORC1 signaling in infected WT mice and primary macrophages enhanced bacterial replication and attenuated inflammasome activation, suggesting autophagy promotes bacterial replication while inhibiting inflammasome activation. Finally, our data suggest TLR9 and IFN-I are upstream signaling mechanisms triggering MyD88-mediated mTORC1 and inflammasome activation in macrophages following Ehrlichia infection. This study reveals that Ehrlichia-induced liver injury and toxic shock are mediated by MyD88-dependent inflammasome activation and autophagy inhibition. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Blotting, Western#Disease Models, Animal#Ehrlichia#Ehrlichiosis#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#In Situ Nick-End Labeling#Inflammasomes#Liver Failure, Acute#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Shock, Septic'
b'Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer is a herb used for medicinal purposes, and its discrimination according to cultivation age has been an important and practical issue. This study employed Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy with multivariate statistical analysis to obtain a prediction model for discriminating cultivation ages (5 and 6 years) and three different parts (rhizome, tap root, and lateral root) of P. ginseng. The optimal partial-least-squares regression (PLSR) models for discriminating ginseng samples were determined by selecting normalization methods, number of partial-least-squares (PLS) components, and variable influence on projection (VIP) cutoff values. The best prediction model for discriminating 5- and 6-year-old ginseng was developed using tap root, vector normalization applied after the second differentiation, one PLS component, and a VIP cutoff of 1.0 (based on the lowest root-mean-square error of prediction value). In addition, for discriminating among the three parts of P. ginseng, optimized PLSR models were established using data sets obtained from vector normalization, two PLS components, and VIP cutoff values of 1.5 (for 5-year-old ginseng) and 1.3 (for 6-year-old ginseng). To our knowledge, this is the first study to provide a novel strategy for rapidly discriminating the cultivation ages and parts of P. ginseng using FT-IR by selected normalization methods, number of PLS components, and VIP cutoff values. labels: #Multivariate Analysis#Panax#Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared'
b'Gut microbiota play an important role in human immunological processes, potentially affecting allergic diseases such as eczema. The diversity and structure of gut microbiota in infants with eczema have been previously documented. This study aims to evaluate by comparative metagenomics differences in genetic content in gut microbiota of infants with eczema and their matched controls. Stools were collected at the age of one month old from twelve infants from an at risk birth cohort in a case control manner. Clinical follow up for atopic outcomes were carried out at the age of 12 and 24 months. Microbial genomic DNA were extracted from stool samples and used for shotgun sequencing. Comparative metagenomic analysis showed that immune-regulatory TCAAGCTTGA motifs were significantly enriched in the six healthy controls (C) communities compared to the six eczema subjects (E), with many encoded by Bifidobacterium (38% of the total motifs in the C communities). Draft genomes of five Bifidobacterium species populations (B. longum, B. bifidum, B. breve, B. dentium, and B. pseudocatenulatum) were recovered from metagenomic datasets. The B. longum BFN-121-2 genome encoded more TCAAGCTTGA motifs (4.2 copies per one million genome sequence) than other Bifidobacterium genomes. Additionally, the communities in the stool of controls (C) were also significantly enriched in functions associated with tetrapyrrole biosynthesis compared to those of eczema (E). Our results show distinct immune-modulatory genomic properties of gut microbiota in infants associated with eczema and provide new insights into potential role of gut microbiota in affecting human immune homeostasis. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Eczema#Female#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Humans#Infant#Male#Phylogeny#Placebos'
b'OBJECTIVES: To test whether shade sails will increase the use of passive recreation areas (PRAs).METHODS: We conducted a stratified randomized pretest-posttest controlled design study in Melbourne, Australia, and Denver, Colorado, in 2010 to 2014. We randomized a sample of 144 public parks with 2 PRAs in full sun in a 1:3 ratio to treatment or control. Shade sails were built at 1 PRA per treatment park. The outcome was any use of the study PRA (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89576 pretest and n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89576 posttest observations; 100% follow-up).RESULTS: Compared with control PRAs (adjusted probability of use: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.17), use of treatment PRAs (pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.10, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.32) was higher at posttest (odds ratio [OR]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.91; 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.71, 8.94). Shade increased use of PRAs in Denver (control: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.18, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.19; treatment: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.16, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.47) more than Melbourne (control: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.11, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14; shaded: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.06, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.19; OR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.98; 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.09, 8.14).CONCLUSIONS: Public investment in shade is warranted for skin cancer prevention and may be especially useful in the United States.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT02971709. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Australia#City Planning#Colorado#Environment Design#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Parks, Recreational#Prospective Studies#Skin Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b'OBJECTIVES: To evaluate a community-level sodium-reduction intervention in Boston, Massachusetts. Reducing sodium in the food offerings of community settings may help reduce hypertension disparities.METHODS: We examined changes in the proportion of prepackaged foods with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium in 7 hospitals, 8 YMCAs, 4 community health centers, and 2 organizations serving homeless populations. Research assistants documented prepackaged items in cafeterias, kiosks, and vending machines before and after the intervention (2013-2015). We assessed intervention change via linear mixed models accounting for repeated observations.RESULTS: There were 161 access points at baseline (4347 facings) and 171 (4996 facings) at follow-up. The percentage of prepackaged products with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium decreased from 29.0% at baseline to 21.5% at follow-up (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.003). Changes were driven by improvements in hospital cafeterias and kiosks (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.003). The percentage of products with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium in YMCA vending decreased 58% (from 27.2% to 11.5%; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.017); other organizations had nonsignificant declines.CONCLUSIONS: We found modest reductions in the percentage of higher-sodium prepackaged products across community institutions. Community-level interventions may increase availability of lower-sodium products in the food supply. labels: #Boston#Community Health Centers#Food#Food Dispensers, Automatic#Food Service, Hospital#Health Promotion#Hospitals#Humans#Hypertension#Snacks#Sodium, Dietary'
b'OBJECTIVES: To deploy a methodology accurately identifying tweets marketing the illegal online sale of controlled substances.METHODS: We first collected tweets from the Twitter public application program interface stream filtered for prescription opioid keywords. We then used unsupervised machine learning (specifically, topic modeling) to identify topics associated with illegal online marketing and sales. Finally, we conducted Web forensic analyses to characterize different types of online vendors. We analyzed 619\xe2\x80\x89937 tweets containing the keywords codeine, Percocet, fentanyl, Vicodin, Oxycontin, oxycodone, and hydrocodone over a 5-month period from June to November 2015.RESULTS: A total of 1778 tweets (<\xe2\x80\x891%) were identified as marketing the sale of controlled substances online; 90% had imbedded hyperlinks, but only 46 were "live" at the time of the evaluation. Seven distinct URLs linked to Web sites marketing or illegally selling controlled substances online.CONCLUSIONS: Our methodology can identify illegal online sale of prescription opioids from large volumes of tweets. Our results indicate that controlled substances are trafficked online via different strategies and vendors. Public Health Implications. Our methodology can be used to identify illegal online sellers in criminal violation of the Ryan Haight Online Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act. labels: #Analgesics, Opioid#Crime#Humans#Marketing#Pharmaceutical Services, Online#Prescription Drug Misuse#Public Health#Social Media#Unsupervised Machine Learning'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess how integration of HIV surveillance and field services might influence surveillance data and linkage to care metrics.METHODS: We used HIV surveillance and field services data from King County, Washington, to assess potential impact of misclassification of prior diagnoses on numbers of new diagnoses. The relationship between partner services and linkage to care was evaluated with multivariable log-binomial regression models.RESULTS: Of the 2842 people who entered the King County HIV Surveillance System in 2010 to 2015, 52% were newly diagnosed, 41% had a confirmed prior diagnosis in another state, and 7% had an unconfirmed prior diagnosis. Twelve percent of those classified as newly diagnosed for purposes of national HIV surveillance self-reported a prior HIV diagnosis that was unconfirmed. Partner services recipients were more likely than nonrecipients to link to care within 30 days (adjusted risk ratio [RR]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.10; 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.03, 1.18) and 90 days (adjusted RR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.07; 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.01, 1.14) of diagnosis.CONCLUSIONS: Integration of HIV surveillance, partner services, and care linkage efforts may improve the accuracy of HIV surveillance data and facilitate timely linkage to care. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Community Health Services#Data Collection#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Population Surveillance#Regression Analysis#Self Report#Washington#Young Adult'
b"In the United States, groups advocating for and against abortion rights often deploy public health arguments to advance their positions. Recently, these arguments have evolved into state laws that use the government health department infrastructure to increase law enforcement and regulatory activities around abortion. Many major medical and public health associations oppose these new laws because they are not evidence-based and do not protect women's health. Yet state health departments have been defending these laws in court. We propose a 21st-century public health approach to abortion based in an accepted public health framework. Specifically, we apply the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 10 Essential Public Health Services framework to abortion to describe how health departments should engage with abortion. With this public health framework as our guide, we argue that health departments should be facilitating women's ability to obtain an abortion in the state and county where they reside, researching barriers to abortion care in their states and counties, and promoting the use of a scientific evidence base in abortion-related laws, policies, regulations, and implementation of essential services. labels: #Abortion, Legal#Female#Health Policy#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Pregnancy#Public Health Practice#State Government#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To examine the relation of "shall-issue" laws, in which permits must be issued if requisite criteria are met; "may-issue" laws, which give law enforcement officials wide discretion over whether to issue concealed firearm carry permits or not; and homicide rates.METHODS: We compared homicide rates in shall-issue and may-issue states and total, firearm, nonfirearm, handgun, and long-gun homicide rates in all 50 states during the 25-year period of 1991 to 2015. We included year and state fixed effects and numerous state-level factors in the analysis.RESULTS: Shall-issue laws were significantly associated with 6.5% higher total homicide rates, 8.6% higher firearm homicide rates, and 10.6% higher handgun homicide rates, but were not significantly associated with long-gun or nonfirearm homicide.CONCLUSIONS: Shall-issue laws are associated with significantly higher rates of total, firearm-related, and handgun-related homicide. labels: #Age Distribution#Firearms#Homicide#Humans#United States#Wounds, Gunshot'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of Short Message Service (SMS) reminder messages on antiretroviral and cotrimoxazole prophylaxis adherence among HIV-positive youths as well as the relative effectiveness of SMS with and without a response option.METHODS: Eligible HIV-positive patients aged 15 to 22 years at 2 HIV clinics in Kampala, Uganda, participated in a year-long parallel individual-randomized controlled trial and were assigned in a 1-to-1-to-1 ratio to a weekly SMS message group, weekly SMS message with response option group, or a usual-care control group.RESULTS: We enrolled 332 participants. Electronically measured mean adherence was 67% in the control group, 64% in the 1-way SMS group (95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.77, 1.14), and 61% in the 2-way SMS group (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.75, 1.12) in an intent-to-treat analysis. Results for secondary outcomes and complete-case analysis were similarly statistically insignificant across groups.CONCLUSIONS: Despite previous evidence that interventions using SMS reminders can promote antiretroviral therapy adherence, this study shows that they are not always effective in achieving behavior change. More research is needed to find out for whom, and under what conditions, they can be beneficial.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00830622. labels: #AIDS-Related Opportunistic Infections#Adolescent#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-HIV Agents#Female#HIV Seropositivity#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Male#Medication Adherence#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Reminder Systems#Text Messaging#Trimethoprim, Sulfamethoxazole Drug Combination#Uganda#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVES: To examine the trends of new and recurrent sports-related concussions in high-school athletes before and after youth sports traumatic brain injury laws.METHODS: We used an interrupted time-series design and analyzed the concussion data (2005-2016) from High School Reporting Injury Online. We examined the trends of new or recurrent concussion rates among US representative high-school athletes participating in 9 sports across prelaw, immediate-postlaw, and postlaw periods by using general linear models. We defined 1 athlete exposure as attending 1 competition or practice.RESULTS: We included a total of 8043 reported concussions (88.7% new, 11.3% recurrent). The average annual concussion rate was 39.8 per 100\xe2\x80\x89000 athlete exposures. We observed significantly increased trends of reported new and recurrent concussions from the prelaw, through immediate-postlaw, into the postlaw period. However, the recurrent concussion rate showed a significant decline 2.6 years after the laws went into effect. Football exhibited different trends compared with other boys' sports and girls' sports.CONCLUSIONS: Observed trends of increased concussion rates are likely attributable to increased identification and reporting. Additional research is needed to evaluate intended long-term impact of traumatic brain injury laws. labels: #Adolescent#Athletic Injuries#Brain Concussion#Female#Humans#Male#Recurrence#Sex Distribution#Sports#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of a universal school-based depression education program.METHODS: In 2012-2015, we matched 6679 students from 66 secondary schools into pairs by state (Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Oklahoma) and randomized to the Adolescent Depression Awareness Program (ADAP; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893681) or to a waitlist control condition (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892998). Trained teachers delivered ADAP as part of the health education curriculum to students aged 14 to 15 years. The primary outcome was depression literacy. Secondary outcomes included mental health stigma and, in a subset of the sample, the receipt of mental health services. Follow-up was at 4 months.RESULTS: ADAP resulted in significantly higher levels of depression literacy among participating students than did waitlist controls, after adjusting for pretest assessment depression literacy (P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Overall, ADAP did not significantly affect stigma (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.1). After ADAP, students approached 46% of teachers with concerns about themselves or others. Of students who reported the need for depression treatment, 44% received treatment within 4 months of ADAP implementation.CONCLUSIONS: ADAP is an effective public health intervention for improving depression literacy among students.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02099305. labels: #Adolescent#Curriculum#Depressive Disorder#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Health Literacy#Humans#School Health Services#Social Stigma#Surveys and Questionnaires#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the prevalence of abortion among population groups and changes in rates between 2008 and 2014.METHODS: We used secondary data from the Abortion Patient Survey, the American Community Survey, and the National Survey of Family Growth to estimate abortion rates. We used information from the Abortion Patient Survey to estimate the lifetime incidence of abortion.RESULTS: Between 2008 and 2014, the abortion rate declined 25%, from 19.4 to 14.6 per 1000 women aged 15 to 44 years. The abortion rate for adolescents aged 15 to 19 years declined 46%, the largest of any group. Abortion rates declined for all racial and ethnic groups but were larger for non-White women than for non-Hispanic White women. Although the abortion rate decreased 26% for women with incomes less than 100% of the federal poverty level, this population had the highest abortion rate of all the groups examined: 36.6. If the 2014 age-specific abortion rates prevail, 24% of women aged 15 to 44 years in that year will have an abortion by age 45 years.CONCLUSIONS: The decline in abortion was not uniform across all population groups. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Continental Population Groups#Educational Status#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Incidence#Income#Marital Status#Pregnancy#Prevalence#United States#Young Adult'
b"As the United States experiences an epidemic of prescription drug abuse, and guidelines on safe practices in prescribing opioids in chronic pain have subsequently emerged from professional organizations and governmental agencies, limited guidance exists for prescribers of opioids to treat pain in patients with cancer or terminal illness. Patients with active cancer or terminal illness often have pain and are frequently prescribed opioids and other controlled substances. Current studies suggest that patients with cancer have similar rates of risk for misuse, abuse, and addiction as the general public. Moreover, palliative care and hospice programs appear poorly prepared for assessing or managing patients with aberrant behaviors or evidence of drug abuse. Further research and professional consensus are needed to help address the challenges associated with misuse, abuse, and addiction in patients with cancer and terminal illness. labels: #Analgesics, Opioid#Attitude of Health Personnel#Chronic Pain#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Neoplasms#Opioid-Related Disorders#Physician's Role#Prescription Drug Misuse#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Risk Management#Taboo#Terminal Care"
b"BACKGROUND: Opioids are frequently used in chronic pain management but are associated with significant morbidity and mortality in some patient populations. An important avenue for identifying complications-including serious or rare complications-is the study of closed malpractice claims. The present study is intended to complement the existing closed claims literature by drawing on claims from a more recent timeframe through a partnership with a large malpractice carrier, the Controlled Risk Insurance Company (CRICO). The goal of this study was to identify patient medical comorbidities and aberrant drug behaviors, as well as prescriber practices associated with patient injury and malpractice claims. Another objective was to identify claims most likely to result in payments and use this information to propose a strategy for reducing medicolegal risk.METHODS: The CRICO Strategies Comparative Benchmarking System is a database of claims drawing from>350,000 malpractice claims from Harvard-affiliated institutions and>400 other academic and community institutions across the United States. This database was queried for closed claims from January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2013, and identified 37 cases concerning noninterventional, outpatient chronic pain management. Each file consisted of a narrative summary, including expert witness testimony, as well as coded fields for patient demographics, medical comorbidities, the alleged damaging event, the alleged injurious outcome, the total financial amount incurred, and more. We performed an analysis using these claim files.RESULTS: The mean patient age was 43.5 years, with men representing 59.5% of cases. Payments were made in 27% of cases, with a median payment of $72,500 and a range of $7500-$687,500. The majority of cases related to degenerative joint disease of the spine and failed back surgery syndrome; no patients in this series received treatment of malignant pain. Approximately half (49%) of cases involved a patient death. The use of long-acting opioids and medical conditions affecting the cardiac and pulmonary systems were more closely associated with death than with other outcomes. The nonpain medical conditions present in this analysis included obesity, obstructive sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, and coronary artery disease. Other claims ranged from alleged addiction to opioids from improper prescribing to alleged abandonment with withdrawal of care. The CRICO analysis suggested that patient behavior contributed to over half of these claims, whereas deficits in clinical judgment contributed to approximately 40% of the claims filed.CONCLUSIONS: Claims related to outpatient medication management in pain medicine are multifactorial, stemming from deficits in clinical judgment by physicians, noncooperation in care by patients, and poor clinical documentation. Minimization of both legal risk and patient harm can be achieved by carefully selecting patients for chronic opioid therapy and documenting compliance and improvement with the treatment plan. Medical comorbidities such as obstructive sleep apnea and the use of long-acting opioids may be particularly dangerous. Continuing physician education on the safest and most effective approaches to manage these medications in everyday practice will lead to both improved legal security and patient safety. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Ambulatory Care#Analgesics, Opioid#Cause of Death#Chronic Pain#Comorbidity#Compensation and Redress#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Insurance, Liability#Liability, Legal#Male#Malpractice#Medical Errors#Middle Aged#Pain Clinics#Pain Measurement#Patient Safety#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Process Assessment (Health Care)#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'Buprenorphine maintenance therapy patients frequently have severe postoperative pain due to buprenorphine-induced hyperalgesia and provider use of opioids with limited efficacy in the presence of buprenorphine. The authors report good-to-excellent pain management in 4 obstetric patients using nonopioid analgesics, regional anesthesia, continuation of buprenorphine, and use of opioids with high \xce\xbc receptor affinity. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Obstetrical#Analgesia, Patient-Controlled#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthetics, Local#Buprenorphine, Naloxone Drug Combination#Cesarean Section, Repeat#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Narcotic Antagonists#Opiate Substitution Treatment#Opioid-Related Disorders#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain Perception#Pain Threshold#Pain, Postoperative#Pregnancy#Sterilization, Tubal#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: The United States is in the midst of an opioid epidemic, and opioid use disorder often begins with a prescription for acute pain. The perioperative period represents an important opportunity to prevent chronic opioid use, and recently there has been a paradigm shift toward implementation of enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols that promote opioid-free and multimodal analgesia. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of an ERAS intervention for colorectal surgery on discharge opioid prescribing practices.METHODS: We conducted a historical-prospective quality improvement study of an ERAS protocol implemented for patients undergoing colorectal surgery with a focus on the opioid-free and multimodal analgesia components of the pathway. We compared patients undergoing colorectal surgery 1 year before implementation (June 15, 2015, to June 14, 2016) and 1 year after implementation (June 15, 2016, to June 14, 2017).RESULTS: Before the ERAS intervention, opioids at discharge were not significantly increasing (1% per month; 95% confidence interval [CI], -1% to 3%; P = .199). Immediately after the ERAS intervention, opioid prescriptions were not significantly lower (13%; 95% CI, -30% to 3%; P = .110). After the intervention, the rate of opioid prescriptions at discharge did not decrease significantly 1% (95% CI, -3% to 1%) compared to the pre-period rate (P = .399). Subgroup analysis showed that in patients with a combination of low discharge pain scores, no preoperative opioid use, and low morphine milligram equivalents consumption before discharge, the rate of discharge opioid prescription was 72% (95% CI, 61%-83%).CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to report discharge opioid prescribing practices in an ERAS setting. Although an ERAS intervention for colorectal surgery led to an increase in opioid-free anesthesia and multimodal analgesia, we did not observe an impact on discharge opioid prescribing practices. The majority of patients were discharged with an opioid prescription, including those with a combination of low discharge pain scores, no preoperative opioid use, and low morphine milligram equivalents consumption before discharge. This observation in the setting of an ERAS pathway that promotes multimodal analgesia suggests that our findings are very likely to also be observed in non-ERAS settings and offers an opportunity to modify opioid prescribing practices on discharge after surgery. For opioid-free anesthesia and multimodal analgesia to influence the opioid epidemic, the dose and quantity of the opioids prescribed should be modified based on the information gathered by in-hospital pain scores and opioid use as well as pain history before admission. labels: #Adult#Aged#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Analgesics, Opioid#Colon#Comparative Effectiveness Research#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug Prescriptions#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Patient Discharge#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Program Evaluation#Prospective Studies#Quality Improvement#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Rectum#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome"
b'To investigate the effects of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) gene polymorphisms on the onset of osteomyelitis in Chinese Han population.In all, 80 osteomyelitis patients (case group) and 81 healthy people (control group) were recruited into this case-control study. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method was utilized to examine the genotypes of MMP-1 polymorphisms (-1607 2G/1G and -519A/G) in the 2 groups. Genotype and allele differences between the case and control groups were analyzed by chi-square test. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated to present the association strength between MMP-1 gene polymorphisms and osteomyelitis.Frequencies of -1607 2G/2G genotype between the case and control groups were statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025). Compared with 1G/1G genotype carriers, the 2G/2G genotype carriers had 1.605 times risk of developing osteomyelitis (OR 2.605, 95% CI 1.116-6.082). Meanwhile, the 2G allele significantly associated with the risk of osteomyelitis (OR 1.735, 95% CI 1.115-2.701). In addition, frequency of -519GG genotype was obviously higher in case group than that in control group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024), and GG genotype related to an increased risk of osteomyelitis (OR 2.792, 95% CI 1.127-6.917). Whereas, the -519G allele may be a susceptible factor for osteomyelitis (OR 1.622, 95% CI 1.038-2.536).The MMP-1 -1607 (2G/1G) and -519 (A/G) polymorphisms may contribute to the onset of osteomyelitis. labels: #Adult#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 1#Odds Ratio#Osteomyelitis#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors'
b'To investigate the diagnostic value of electrocardiographic (ECG) ST-segment in acute inferior myocardial infarction (AIMI) caused by the left circumflex branch (LCX).A total of 240 clinical cases with AIMI in our hospital were retrospectively analyzed. All of them had received percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) within 12\xe2\x80\x8ahours after symptom onset. The clinical features, ECG manifestations, and coronary artery lesion characteristics of the patients were collected.The right coronary artery (RCA) was shown to be the infarct-related artery (IRA) in 177 patients, while LCX was responsible for AIMI in 63 cases. There was no significant difference in the risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD) (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05 for all) between the 2 groups. ST-segment elevation in lead II, III, and AVF could be found in all patients. Moreover, ST-segment depression in lead I (STD I), ST-segment elevation in lead III (STE III), STE III-STE II, STE AVF, STD AVL, STD AVL-STD I and STE v6 lead ST-segment deviation exhibited significant difference in 2 groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05 for all). The changes of STD I, STE III<STEII, STD AVL<STD I could discriminate between LCX and RCA in AIMI patients with high sensitivity and specificity.ECG may be an effective tool to predict the IRA in patient with AIMI. labels: #Aged#Brugada Syndrome#Bundle-Branch Block#Cardiac Conduction System Disease#Coronary Disease#Coronary Occlusion#Coronary Vessels#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Humans#Inferior Wall Myocardial Infarction#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) and combined of intravenous and inhaled anesthesia (CIIA) on intraoperative awareness in surgical patients.A total of 678 patients were recruited in the CIIA group, while TIVA group included 566 patients. The clinical characteristics and the occurrence of intraoperative awareness were compared between the groups. Mini-Mental State Examination, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7, and Patient Health Questionnaire 9 tests were performed to estimate cognitive and psychological functions of the patients. In addition, logistic regression analysis was applied to identify the risk factors for intraoperative awareness in surgical patients.In CIIA group, 3 patients (0.44%) were confirmed with intraoperative awareness, while 11 patients (1.94%) in TIVA group underwent intraoperative awareness. The occurrence rate of intraoperative awareness was significantly higher in VITA group than that in the CIIA group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.029). Awareness classification demonstrated that intraoperative awareness mainly included auditory, tactile, and pain perceptions. Moreover, 4 patients showed distress after operation. Patients with intraoperative awareness exhibited poor performance in cognitive and psychological tests (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001 for all). Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that CIIA (odds ratio [OR]\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.198, 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.047-0.827), age (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.951, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.908-0.997), midazolam application (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.158, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.034-0.736), awareness history (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a10.131, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.206-45.517), and duration of surgery (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.016, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.001-1.032) were significantly associated with intraoperative awareness.Intraoperative awareness can significantly influence the cognitive and psychological functions of surgical patients. CIIA and midazolam application may lower the risk of intraoperative awareness. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia, General#Anesthesia, Inhalation#Anesthesia, Intravenous#Anesthetics, Inhalation#Female#Humans#Intraoperative Awareness#Logistic Models#Male#Methyl Ethers#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Postoperative Period#Propofol#Stress, Psychological#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Urinary lithiasis is one of severe postoperative complications in patients undergoing renal transplantation, possibly leading to anuria, urinary infection, or even acute renal failure. Potassium sodium hydrogen citrate (PSHC), a potassium-bearing citrate, is commonly prescribed to prevent stone formation.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old man (patient 1) and a 31-year-old man (patient 2) receiving renal transplantation for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) were enrolled in this study. They were given 10\xe2\x80\x8ag/day of PSHC granules from the ninth day to the 17th day after surgery. Patient 1 presented chest tightness, nausea, muscle weakness, and ascending paralysis on the 10th day. Patient 2 presented weak waves on EGG on the 17th day. Moreover, their serum potassium concentrations (SPCs) were 7.67 and 6.05\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, respectively.DIAGNOSIS: Acute hyperkalemia.INTERVENTIONS: Hemo-filtration was performed for patient 1, while patient 2 received 10% calcium gluconate 10\xe2\x80\x8amL, 5% NaHCO3 125\xe2\x80\x8amL, and 10% glucose 500\xe2\x80\x8amL with the addition of 10 units of insulin through intravenous drip.OUTCOMES: Their SPCs dropped to the normal range.LESSONS: Physicians should pay close attentions to potential risks caused by PSHC, and monitor the SPCs to minimize the occurrence of hyperkalemia. labels: #Adult#Diuretics#Humans#Hyperkalemia#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Postoperative Complications#Potassium Citrate#Urolithiasis'
b'Ras association domain protein 10 (RASSF10) was reported to act as a prognostic indicator in various types of cancer and it was proved to be tumor suppressor gene in colorectal cancer (CRC). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of RASSF10 in CRC.Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to detect the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression while enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was taken to measure the protein expression of RASSF10 in tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 102 patients with CRC. The relationship between RASSF10 expression level and clinical characteristics of CRC patients was analyzed by chi-squared test. In addition, the association between overall survival of CRC patients and RASSF10 expression was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Cox regression analysis was used to evaluate the prognostic value of RASSF10.The expression level of RASSF10 in tumor tissues was significantly lower than that in the normal tissues both at mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, the expression level was correlated with lymph-node-metastasis and tumor-node-metastasis stage. Kaplan-Meier analysis suggested that patients with high expression level of RASSF10 had a longer overall survival than those with low level (log-rank test, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Besides, RASSF10 might be a potential biomarker in the prognosis of CRC according to cox regression analysis.The down regulated of RASSF10 is found in CRC and it may be an ideal prognostic marker. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Chi-Square Distribution#Colorectal Neoplasms#Down-Regulation#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Regression Analysis#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b'RATIONALE: Gustatory otorrhea can lead to cutaneous changes, recurrent infection, and social disruption. We present a case of a late, evolving sialocutaneous fistula to the external auditory canal, managed surgically after failing conservative therapies. This case is unique by late evolution, whereby the symptoms presented with significance 27 years after her operation and 19 years after mild symptoms initially arose.PATIENT CONCERNS: Gustatory, left-sided clear otorrhea with acutely increased volume over 8 months causing social disruption.DIAGNOSES: Sialocutaneous fistula to the external auditory canal.INTERVENTIONS: Superficial parotidectomy and temporoparietal flap for closure of fistula.OUTCOMES: No postoperative complications and resolution of gustatory otorrhea at one-year follow-up.LESSONS: This rare, but important, postoperative complication can present late with evolving symptoms, causing significant social disruption. It can be treated with conservative medical management and several surgical approaches. labels: #Adult#Cutaneous Fistula#Ear Canal#Fascia#Fasciotomy#Female#Humans#Late Onset Disorders#Parotid Gland#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Salivary Gland Fistula#Surgical Flaps#Sweating, Gustatory#Temporal Muscle'
b'INTRODUCTION: Duodenal obstructions caused by congenital anatomic abnormalities are rare in adults. Several patients in whom the duodenal obstruction was caused by a congenital duodenal diaphragm have been described. The duodenal obstruction in the patient presented herein was caused by a transverse septum, which has not been previously reported. A transverse septum is usually observed in the vagina; those involving the digestive tract have been rarely observed.CASE PRESENTATION: We herein report a case involving a 69-year-old woman with a congenital duodenal transverse septum causing partial obstruction. She was admitted to our hospital with a 3-month history of epigastric pain and vomiting. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, iodinated water-soluble contrast imaging, and abdominal computed tomography revealed dilation of the stomach and a neoplasm in the descending part of the duodenum. The patient was suspected to have a tumor in the descending part of the duodenum. Exploratory laparotomy showed a banded duodenal transverse septum at the junction of the second part of the duodenum. The duodenal transverse septum was approximately 2\xe2\x80\x8amm thick and 1\xe2\x80\x8acm wide and divided the duodenal lumen into 2 parts. The duodenal papillae were completely normal and located under the duodenal transverse septum. Histopathological analysis of the transverse septum showed that it was similar to the organizational structure of the duodenal wall.CONCLUSION: The possibility of congenital disease should be considered in older patients with intestinal obstruction, even when imaging studies reveal a duodenal neoplasm. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Aged#Diagnosis, Differential#Duodenal Neoplasms#Duodenal Obstruction#Duodenum#Female#Humans#Vomiting'
b'This study aimed to analyze the correlation of the plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) gene polymorphisms (rs6092 and rs7242) with susceptibility of osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH).This case-control study included 106 ONFH patients and 151 healthy controls. PAI-1 polymorphisms were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with direct sequencing. The genotype distribution of polymorphism in the control group was checked with the status of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE). The \xcf\x87 test was applied to compare the genotypes of polymorphisms between the case and control groups. The association intensity between PAI-1 polymorphisms and ONFH risk was estimated by odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The linkage disequilibrium of PAI-1 polymorphisms was analyzed by Haploview.We found that the genotypes and alleles of PAI-1 rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms had no obvious association with the risk of ONFH (P\xe2\x80\x8a>.05). But the strong linkage disequilibrium existed between rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms and haplotype G-T was significantly associated with the decreased risk of ONFH occurrence (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.666, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.445-0.998).PAI-1 rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms are not associated with ONFH development, but haplotype G-T may be a protective factor of ONFH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Female#Femur Head Necrosis#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'The aim of the study is to evaluate the use of the tumor border in peripheral non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as an indicator of pleural invasion.This retrospective study was performed at a single tertiary center. The analysis of 136 patients with peripheral NSCLC included 101 (74.3%) patients with pathologically proven pleural invasion and 35 (25.7%) patients without pleural invasion. The tumor borders on conventional computed tomography (CT) were classified into 5 types on lung window setting: type 1, S or reverse S border with a blunt angle; type 2, sharp angle; type 3, concave border with a blunt angle; type 4, straight border with a perpendicular angle; and type 5, convex border with a perpendicular or blunt angle. In patients with more than 1 tumor border type, the priority was type 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Blunt angle, pleural contact>3\xe2\x80\x8acm, and adjacent pleural thickening were also recorded for comparison with pleural invasion of peripheral tumors.Tumor border types 2 and 5 significantly differed between patients with and without pleural invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). Patients with and without pleural invasion did not significantly differ in tumor border type 1, tumor border type 3, tumor border type 4, blunt angle, pleural contact>3\xe2\x80\x8acm, or pleural thickening. Tumor border type 5 was a moderate indicator of pleural invasion with positive LR, 5.20; accuracy, 57%; sensitivity, 45%; specificity, 91%; PPV, 94%; and NPV, 36%. Tumor border type 2 was a weak indicator of pleural invasion with positive LR, 0.51; accuracy, 34%; sensitivity, 34%; specificity, 34%; PPV, 60%; and NPV, 15%.Tumor border type 5 has a high PPV and high specificity for predicting pleural invasion by peripheral NSCLC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Pleura#Pleural Neoplasms#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Primary cardiac angiosarcoma is rare, but it is the most aggressive type of cardiac malignant tumor. When disease is confirmed it is often late in its stage resulting in a poor prognosis.CASE PRESENTATION: We reported a 52-year-old woman who complained of dyspnea for 2 months and dry cough for 10 days. Computed tomography (CT), F-fluorodeoxyglucose (F-FDG), positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT), and transthoracic echocardiography showed a space-occupying lesion 7\xe2\x80\x8acm\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8acm\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8acm in the right atrium. Malignant cells can be seen in pericardial fluid by pericardiocentesis in local hospital, but not be diagnosed definitely. We conducted CT-guided biopsy of the tumor and observed the necrotic tissues. An exploratory thoracotomy was performed and histological examination confirmed angiosarcoma. Unable to be surgical excision due to infiltrating widely, the patients received chemotherapy with docetaxel for 2 cycles and the disease was progressive. Antiangiogenesis-targeted therapy was combined with chemotherapy for 3 months. Unfortunately, the tumor was still in progress. She died of respiratory failure, survived for 10 months.CONCLUSION: It is difficult to diagnose the primary cardiac angiosarcoma in early stage. Chemotherapy and target therapy are very limited in this case. Surgery remains the preferred treatment for patients with primary cardiac angiosarcoma. More efforts should be carried out on the effective diagnosis and multimodality treatment for this malignant disease. labels: #Cough#Dyspnea#Echocardiography#Fatal Outcome#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Heart Atria#Heart Neoplasms#Hemangiosarcoma#Humans#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Radiopharmaceuticals'
b'This study aimed to explore the genetic association of polymorphisms in caveolin-1 gene (CAV1) with hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-related HCC) susceptibility in a Chinese Han population.The genotyping of polymorphism was conducted using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Whether the genotype distribution of polymorphisms in the healthy controls was consistent with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) was detected. The genotype and allele frequency difference between the 2 groups was compared by chi-square test. Odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were calculated to show the relative risk of HCC which resulted from genetic variants in CAV1. Moreover, the linkage disequilibrium of CAV1 polymorphisms was analyzed by Haploview.The AG genotype and A allele of rs1049334 showed significantly higher frequency in HCC patients than that of chronic HBV patients and the healthy controls (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05); so their carriage obviously increased the susceptibility to HBV-related HCC, irrespective of the fact whether individuals were infected with hepatitis B virus or not (AG vs GG: OR 1.958, 95% CI 1.050-3.650, OR 1.899, 95% CI 1.034-3.487; A vs G: OR 1.667, 95% CI 1.033-2.689, OR 1.777, 95% CI 1.103-2.863). Additionally, A-G haplotype of rs3807989-rs1049334 showed the protective role for HBV-related HCC (OR 0.102, 95% CI 0.035-0.293; OR 0.135, 95% CI 0.046-0.395).CAV1 rs1049334 polymorphism is significantly associated with the occurrence risk of HBV-related HCC, and the interaction of polymorphisms should not be neglected. labels: #Adult#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Case-Control Studies#Caveolin 1#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors'
b'Early diagnosis is pivotal for prognosis of lung cancer patients. Positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET-CT) is a useful method for human cancer diagnosis. In this study, we aimed to explore the false positive diagnosis of PET-CT in lung cancerIn total, 754 patients diagnosed with lung cancer via PET-CT were retrospectively collected in this study. Histopathological detection served as gold standard. The diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT was defined as the proportion of lung cancer cases confirmed by pathological diagnosis in the study subjects, and the percentages of misdiagnosed cases represented the false positive diagnosis of PET-CT. Chi-square test and logistic regression analysis were used to analyze the association of pathologically confirmed result with clinical characteristics.Among all the patients, 705 cases were pathologically confirmed with lung cancer. The diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT was 93.5%, and the false positive rate was 6.50%. Among the false positive patients, inflammatory pseudotumor (42.86%) and tuberculoma (36.74%) were the most pathological types. In the positive detection group, adenocarcinoma (57.16%) and squamous carcinoma (33.19%) were the main pathological types, and 68.09% of the lung cancer patients were at the advanced stages. The false positive rate were related with age, diabetes, interleukin-6 (IL-6) level, and T-spot test (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).PET-CT could be a good diagnostic method for lung cancer, but the false positive cases could appear. Detection of inflammatory indicators such as IL-6 and T-spot TB test may help improve the diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT. labels: #Chi-Square Distribution#Diagnosis, Differential#Diagnostic Errors#False Positive Reactions#Female#Granuloma, Plasma Cell#Humans#Logistic Models#Lung Diseases#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Retrospective Studies#Tuberculoma#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) modulates the oxidative stress and inflammatory response, thus, it might relate to the risk of ankylosing spondylitis (AS). The aim of present study was to discover the correlation of PON1 polymorphisms (rs662 and rs854560) with PON1 activity and AS risk.Around 128 AS patients and 146 healthy controls were recruited in this case-control study. PON1 polymorphisms were genotyped by direct sequencing. Serum PON1 activity was detected and compared by nonparametric test in different genotypes of PON1 polymorphisms. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to present the relative risk for AS.GG genotype and G allele of rs662 polymorphism were closely correlated with enhanced AS risk (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.034, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.318, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.051-5.113; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.032, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.485, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.033-2.135). PON1 activity was obviously higher in controls than that in AS patients. Significant difference of PON1 activity has been discovered in the different rs662 genotypes (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01). rs662 GG genotype carriers had the lowest PON1 activity, followed by AG carriers and the AA carriers. Besides, no significant relationship existed between rs854560 genotypes and AS risk.PON1 rs662 polymorphism is significantly correlated with increased AS risk via inhibiting PON1 activity. labels: #Alleles#Aryldialkylphosphatase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#China#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Statistics, Nonparametric'
b'This study aimed to evaluate the effects of psychological intervention and psychological plus drug intervention on smoking cessation among male smokers with single chronic diseases.A total of 509 male smokers were divided into psychological group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a290) and psychological plus drugs (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a219) groups according to their will. The physicians provided free individual counseling and follow-up interviews with brief counseling for all the subjects. In addition to mental intervention, patients in psychological plus drug group also received bupropion hydrochloride or varenicline tartrate to quit smoking. Outcomes were self-reported, regarding the 7-day point prevalence on abstinence rate and continuous abstinence rates at 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-up period. Data analyses were performed using intention-to-treat analysis and per protocol analysis.With regards to the 3 follow-up time points, 7-day point-prevalence abstinence rate in psychological plus drugs group was all higher than that in the psychological intervention group. Additionally, the 3-month continuous abstinence rate (21.4%) of the 6-month follow-up in the psychological group was not significantly higher than that (26.9%) in the psychological plus drugs group (P\xe2\x80\x8a>.05 for all). Fagerstr\xc3\xb6m test score, stage of quitting smoking, perceived confidence or difficulty in quitting, and chronic disease types were independently correlated with 3-month continuous abstinence in the 6-month follow up (P\xe2\x80\x8a<.05 for all). The results were similar between intentional analysis and protocol analysis.The psychological intervention and psychological plus drugs intervention exerted good effects on smoking cessation in a short time (1 month). Nevertheless, the advantages did not appear during long-time (6 months) follow-up. labels: #Adult#Bupropion#Chronic Disease#Combined Modality Therapy#Counseling#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Male#Middle Aged#Nicotinic Agonists#Smoking#Smoking Cessation#Treatment Outcome#Varenicline'
b'Our purpose was to investigate the possible associations between N-acetyltransferase-2 (NAT2) gene polymorphisms and the risk of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in Chinese Han population.A case-control study was conducted including 98 AML cases and 112 healthy controls. NAT2 gene 2 polymorphisms rs1799930 and rs1799931 were genotyped using direct sequencing. Chi-square test was performed to compare the genotype and allele distribution differences between groups. Odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated to estimate the association between NAT2 gene polymorphisms and AML onset.A remarkable decrease trend of rs1799931 GA genotype was detected in AML patients compared with controls, whereas the ancestral GG genotype frequency increased in cases (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). And the mutant A allele of rs1799931 significantly reduced the risk of AML by 0.585-fold versus the ancestral G allele carriers (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.585, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.361-0.950). But the distributions of rs1799930 genotype and allele were similar between groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05).Our findings suggested that NAT2 gene polymorphism rs1799931 was associated with decreased risk of AML and was likely to be a protective factor against AML development. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Alleles#Arylamine N-Acetyltransferase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b"The incidence of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing worldwide and affecting the quality of people's life. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of care intervention on body weight and glycemic parameters in obese T2DM patients.One hundred twenty-six obese T2DM cases were randomly divided into 2 groups. Patients in control group received conventional care, while patients in the intervention group received dietary, exercise, and psychology interventions on the basis of conventional care. Twelve months follow-up was performed to compare the changes of body weight and glycemic parameters in the 2 groups.There were 119 patients completing the research, 60 in the intervention group and 59 in control group. The levels of fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 2\xe2\x80\x8ahours postprandial blood glucose (PBG2\xe2\x80\x8ah), hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), and aldose reductase (AR) were all significantly decreased (all, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in intervention group compared with the control group after 12 months follow-up. Moreover, the body weight and BMI (body mass index) were also significantly reduced in intervention group, and the weight loss was significantly higher in intervention group than that in control group during the follow-up.To implement care intervention for obese T2DM patients could strengthen the management of blood glucose, reduce body weight and complications. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aldehyde Reductase#Behavior Therapy#Blood Glucose#Body Mass Index#Body Weight#Combined Modality Therapy#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diet, Diabetic#Exercise Therapy#Fasting#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Obesity#Postprandial Period#Treatment Outcome#Weight Loss#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a rare but highly malignant form of echinococcosis caused by Echinococcus multilocularis. There have been very few reports on multiple-organ AE, especially AE in bones. Here we report 3 rare cases of disseminated multiple-organ AE from western China and its neighboring areas.PATIENT CONCERNS: Patient 1 had back and left hip pain, headache, and weakness in left lower limb, often with minor epilepsy and fluctuation of blood pressure. Lower limbs Babinski sign was positive and muscular tension was above normal range. The second patient had pain in lower limbs and chest discomfort without fever, cough, sputum, chest tightness, or hemoptysis. Patient 3 had masses and pain in the back side of his right shoulder.DIAGNOSES: The patients had been treated for AE multiple times and were positive for serum hydatid antigens. They were diagnosed as multiorgan AE involving liver, spinal cord, and many other organs.INTERVENTIONS: The patients had undergone surgeries to decompress the spinal cord, remove lesions from tissues as required, and were put on albendazole for at least 2 years.OUTCOMES: The patients responded well and AE recurrence has not occurred.LESSONS: All 3 cases experienced multiple recurrences of AE due to missed diagnosis, misdiagnosis, or inappropriate treatment, which resulted in metastatic multiorgan AE. These cases demonstrated the need for more policy attention to battle AE endemic in western China. labels: #Adult#Animals#China#Echinococcosis#Echinococcosis, Hepatic#Echinococcosis, Pulmonary#Echinococcus multilocularis#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Muscular Diseases'
b"RATIONALE: In very rare cases, a primary infected abdominal aortic aneurysm (IAAA) is caused by a species of Brucella. In this report, we report such a case that was successfully treated with a novel approach. To the best of our knowledge, this was the first case occurring in China, in which an infection of the abdominal aortic aneurysm was caused by a Brucella species.PATIENT CONCERNS: The clinical findings included high fever, fatigue, and abdominal pain.DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis was confirmed by computed tomography angiography and by bacteriologic isolation from the patient's blood culture.INTERVENTIONS: The patient was given endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) and Brucella-sensitive antibiotics for 6 weeks.OUTCOMES: During the 10-month follow-up, the patient's clinical course remained uneventful.LESSONS: Our case study supports the premise that endovascular aneurysm repair is an appropriate alternative strategy to treat an infected abdominal aortic aneurysm. Compared with conventional surgical treatment, EVAR with long-term oral antibiotics is a simpler, less traumatic, and more efficient procedure. However, this needs to be further evaluated through long-term follow-up. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Brucella#Brucellosis#Combined Modality Therapy#Endovascular Procedures#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to identify key genes associated with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by reanalyzing microarray data.METHODS: Three gene expression profile datasets GSE66360, GSE34198, and GSE48060 were downloaded from GEO database. After data preprocessing, genes without heterogeneity across different platforms were subjected to differential expression analysis between the AMI group and the control group using metaDE package. P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05 was used as the cutoff for a differentially expressed gene (DEG). The expression data matrices of DEGs were imported in ReactomeFIViz to construct a gene functional interaction (FI) network. Then, DEGs in each module were subjected to pathway enrichment analysis using DAVID. MiRNAs and transcription factors predicted to regulate target DEGs were identified. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to verify the expression of genes.RESULT: A total of 913 upregulated genes and 1060 downregulated genes were identified in the AMI group. A FI network consists of 21 modules and DEGs in 12 modules were significantly enriched in pathways. The transcription factor-miRNA-gene network contains 2 transcription factors FOXO3 and MYBL2, and 2 miRNAs hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p. RT-PCR validations showed that expression levels of FOXO3 and MYBL2 were significantly increased in AMI, and expression levels of hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p were obviously decreased in AMI.CONCLUSION: A total of 41 DEGs, such as SOCS3, VAPA, and COL5A2, are speculated to have roles in the pathogenesis of AMI; 2 transcription factors FOXO3 and MYBL2, and 2 miRNAs hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p may be involved in the regulation of the expression of these DEGs. labels: #Cell Cycle Proteins#Databases, Genetic#Down-Regulation#Forkhead Box Protein O3#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Association Studies#Humans#MicroRNAs#Myocardial Infarction#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Trans-Activators#Transcription Factors#Up-Regulation'
b'To identify the epidemiology, treatments, outcomes, and risk factors for patients with early- or late-onset invasive candidiasis (EOIC or LOIC) in intensive care units in China.Patients were classified as EOIC (\xe2\x89\xa410 days) or LOIC (>10 days) according to the time from hospital admission to IC onset to identify distinct clinical characteristics.There were 105 EOIC cases and 201 LOIC cases in this study. EOIC was related to more severe clinical conditions at ICU admission or prior to IC. Significantly, more cases of Candida parapsilosis infection were found in patients with LOIC than in those with EOIC. The mortality of EOIC was significantly lower than that for LOIC. Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score at ICI diagnosis in the EOIC group and the interval from ICU admission to ICI occurrence in the LOIC group were identified as risk factors for mortality. Susceptibility to the first-line agent was associated with a lower risk of mortality in the LOIC group.The mortality rate was significantly lower in the EOIC group, and there were more cases of non-albicans infection in the LOIC group. Susceptibility to the first-line agent was an important predictor of mortality in the LOIC group. SOFA score at ICI diagnosis in the EOIC group and interval from ICU admission to ICI occurrence in the LOIC group were identified as risk factors for mortality. labels: #Adult#Aged#Candida#Candidiasis, Invasive#China#Cross Infection#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#Organ Dysfunction Scores#Risk Factors#Time Factors'
b'Essential hypertension (EH) is a complex disease in which physiological, environmental, and genetic factors are involved in its genesis. The genetic variant of the alpha-adducin gene (ADD1) has been described as a risk factor for EH, but with controversial results.The objective of this study was to evaluate the association of ADD1 (Gly460Trp) gene polymorphism with the EH risk in a population from Madeira Island.A case-control study with 1614 individuals of Caucasian origin was performed, including 817 individuals with EH and 797 controls. Cases and controls were matched for sex and age, by frequency-matching method. All participants collected blood for biochemical and genotypic analysis for the Gly460Trp polymorphism. We further investigated which variables were independently associated to EH, and, consequently, analyzed their interactions.In our study, we found a significant association between the ADD1 gene polymorphism and EH (odds ratio 2.484, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01). This association remained statistically significant after the multivariate analysis (odds ratio 2.548, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02).The ADD1 Gly460Trp gene polymorphism is significantly and independently associated with EH risk in our population. The knowledge of genetic polymorphisms associated with EH is of paramount importance because it leads to a better understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of this pathology. labels: #Adult#Calmodulin-Binding Proteins#Case-Control Studies#Essential Hypertension#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Genetic#Portugal#Risk Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Prune belly syndrome (PBS) is a rare congenital disorder among adults, and the way for repairing abdominal wall musculature has no unified standard.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We described combining laparoscopic and open technique in an adult male who presented with PBS. Physical examination and radiological imaging verified the case of PBS. The deficiency of abdominal wall musculature was repaired by combining laparoscopic and open technique using a double-deck complex patch.RESULTS: The patient successfully underwent abdominal wall repair by combining laparoscopic and open technique. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, and improvement in symptom was significant in follow-up after 3, 6, 12, and 24 months.CONCLUSIONS: Combining laparoscopic and open technique for repair of deficiency of abdominal wall musculature in PBS was an exploratory way to improve life quality. labels: #Adult#Combined Modality Therapy#Gastroscopy#Hernia, Abdominal#Herniorrhaphy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Prune Belly Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b"This study aims to analyze the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).A retrospective audit was conducted examining 147 patients treated for EOC. Surgical treatment with curative intent, with or without NACT and adjuvant chemotherapy, is the treatment approach, which was modified according to the patient's condition. The incidence of VTE with the most commonly used chemotherapy regimen, carboplatin, cisplatin, paclitaxel, docetaxel, and others were evaluated.This study found a 13.6% incidence of VTE in patients undergoing therapy with curative intent for EOC. No association was seen between NACT and VTE compared to VTE after standard treatment: 2/16 (12.5%) vs 5/131 (3.8%) (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.16). Univariate and multivariate analyses also demonstrated that NACT has no risk for VTE with odds ratio (OR)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.89 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.18-4.28) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1. Results did not vary significantly with the type of chemotherapy used. Furthermore, increased incidence of VTE as an incidental finding supports the well-established role of malignancy in VTE occurrence. Univariate and multivariate analyses demonstrated that VTE occurred more frequently in menopausal women than nonmenopausal women (17.9% vs 5.8%) with OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3.55 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.99-12.78) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04 in patients aged \xe2\x89\xa560 (19.3% vs 10%) with OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.15 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.83-5.57) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.13 but is not statistically significant.We conclude that NACT has no association with VTE and the currently used common chemotherapeutic drug combinations for ovarian cancer carry the minimal risk of thromboembolic events. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Humans#Incidence#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Venous Thromboembolism"
b'Little is known about hospital readmission for patients with diabetes in China. We aimed to assess the temporal pattern, risk factors, and variations of all-cause readmission among hospitalized patients with diabetes in Tianjin, China, from 2008 to 2013.The Tianjin Basic Medical Insurance Register System database was used to identify discharged patients with diabetes from 2008 to 2013. The influential factors and trends of rehospitalization were analyzed for 30-, 60- and 90-day predicted readmission rates. The Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition was used to explain the readmission variations between 2008 and 2013.The long stay-time at the index hospitalization is a shared risk factor for readmission at 30, 60, and 90 days each year. The 90-day predicted readmission rates were the highest for each year (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The adjusted readmission rates generally decreased by year (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), except for at the 90-day interval, which decreased in 2010 and slightly increased in 2013 (from 7.47% in 2012 to 7.65% in 2013). If the patients had been readmitted to the hospital in 2013 and the only changes that had occurred since 2008 were observable characteristics, then the readmission rates would have decreased by 0.84%, 0.27%, and 0.18% at 30, 60, and 90 days, respectively. The potential policy changes decreased the readmission rates at 1.35%, 2.01%, and 1.04% for the 3 intervals, respectively.Identifying targeted factors for the decrease in readmission rates may help to control readmission, particularly for long-interval patients. labels: #Aged#China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Discharge#Patient Readmission#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors'
b"RATIONALE: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in patients with liver failure. Voriconazole (VRCZ) is recommended as a primary therapeutic agent for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and metabolized in the liver. Now, data are still lacking on the safety and appropriate dosage of VRCZ in patients with liver failure. Here, we report a representative case of invasive pulmonary fungal infection in a patient with liver failure who was treated with low-dose VRCZ.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 21-year-old man, presented with subacute liver failure caused suspected by viral infection, was admitted on June 22, 2014. Liver function was not improved by the treatment of gancicolovir and methylprednisolone. The patient presented with fever, cough, and hyperpyrexia on July 14. Laboratory tests revealed raised neutrophil percentage (82.1%, normal range [NR] 50-70), international normalized ratio (INR) (2.32, NR 0.8-1.2) and levels of serum lactic acid (4.308\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, NR 0.6-2.2), alanine transaminase (165\xe2\x80\x8aU/L,NR 0-40), aspartate transaminase (99\xe2\x80\x8aU/L, NR 8-40), and total bilirubin (654\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, NR 3.4-20.5). Furthermore, CD4+ T cell, CD8+T cell, and B cell count were low (169, 221, and l8/mL, respectively). Sputum smear microscopy for bacteria was negative, but the direct observation for fungal elements was positive. Thoracic CT scan revealed bilateral pulmonary high-density shadow. Sputum cultures were positive 2 days later with the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus.DIAGNOSES: Therefore, this patient diagnosed with suspected pulmonary a spergillosis.INTERVENTIONS: VRCZ was used on July 15th and its dosage was 400\xe2\x80\x8amg twice on day 1 followed by a maintenance dose of 100\xe2\x80\x8amg twice daily according to drug usage instruction. However, some side effects, such as tremors, lips twitching, and hair loss, occurred. Plasma VRCZ trough concentration was 8.1\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL which was much higher than the recommend level. Therefore, VRCZ dosage was adjusted according to its plasma concentration. VRCZ plasma concentration fluctuated between 2.5 to 4.7\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL when its dosage was 100\xe2\x80\x8amg once daily and side effects disappeared.OUTCOMES: VRCZ was administered for 2 months. This patient's symptoms and liver function were improved. A follow-up CT scan performed at the end of VRCZ therapy indicated that the high-density shadow had diminished.LESSONS: This case demonstrated that low-dose VRCZ (maintenance dose, 100\xe2\x80\x8amg/day) can achieve effective plasma concentration and reduce side effects without liver damage. We believe that VRCZ is safe to be administered in patients with liver failure, but its plasma concentration should be carefully monitored. labels: #Antifungal Agents#Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury#Drug Monitoring#Humans#Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Liver Failure#Male#Treatment Outcome#Voriconazole#Young Adult"
b'This study investigated whether alcohol intoxication (AI) increases the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) by using the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD).Using data from the NHIRD, we assembled 61,229 patients with acute AI and randomly selected 244,916 controls. Each patient was monitored from 2000 to 2011 to identify those who were subsequently diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was conducted to determine the risk of VTE in the patients with AI compared with the controls.The incidence rate of DVT during the 10 years follow-up period was 9.36 per 10,000 person-years and 2.07 per 10,000 person-years in the AI and non-AI cohorts, respectively. Moreover, the incidence rate of PE was 4 per 10,000 person-years in the AI cohort and 0.93 in the non-AI cohort. After adjustment for age, sex, and comorbidities, the risks of DVT and PE were 3.40 [95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.83-4.08] and 3.53 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.69-4.65)-fold higher in the AI cohort than in the non-AI cohort.An increased incidence of VTE was observed among patients with AI. Therefore, physicians should carefully estimate the risk of VTE in patients with AI. labels: #Adult#Alcoholic Intoxication#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Proportional Hazards Models#Pulmonary Embolism#Regression Analysis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Taiwan#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to explore the effects of action observation therapy on motor function of upper extremity, activities of daily living, and motion evoked potential in cerebral infarction patients.METHOD: Cerebral infarction survivors were randomly assigned to an experimental group (28 patients) or a control group (25 patients). The conventional rehabilitation treatments were applied in both groups, but the experimental group received an additional action observation therapy for 8 weeks (6 times per week, 20 minutes per time). Fugl-Meyer assessment (FMA), Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT), Modified Barthel Index (MBI), and motor evoked potential (MEP) were used to evaluate the upper limb movement function and daily life activity.RESULTS: There were no significant differences between experiment and control group in the indexes, including FMA, WMFT, and MBI scores, before the intervention. However, after 8 weeks treatments, these indexes were improved significantly. MEP latency and center-motion conduction time (CMCT) decreased from 23.82\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.16 and 11.15\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.68 to 22.69\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.11 and 10.12\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.46\xe2\x80\x8ams. MEP amplitude increased from 0.61\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.22 to 1.25\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.38\xe2\x80\x8amV. A remarkable relationship between the evaluations indexes of MEP and FMA was found.CONCLUSIONS: Combination of motion observation and traditional upper limb rehabilitation treatment technology can significantly elevate the movement function of cerebral infarction patients in subacute seizure phase with upper limb dysfunction, which expanded the application range of motion observation therapy and provided an effective therapy strategy for upper extremities hemiplegia in stroke patients. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Aged#Cerebral Infarction#Evoked Potentials, Motor#Exercise Therapy#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Movement#Observation#Range of Motion, Articular#Recovery of Function#Stroke Rehabilitation#Treatment Outcome#Upper Extremity'
b"RATIONALE: Pelvic malunion is a rare complication and is technically challenging to correct owing to the complex three-dimensional (3D) geometry of the pelvic girdle. Hence, precise preoperative planning is required to ensure appropriate correction. Reconstructive surgery is generally a 2- or 3-stage procedure, with transiliac osteotomy serving as an alternative to address limb length discrepancy.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 38-year-old female patient with a Mears type IV pelvic malunion with previous failed reconstructive surgery was admitted to our department due to progressive immobilization, increasing pain especially at the posterior pelvic arch and a leg length discrepancy. The leg discrepancy was approximately 4 cm and rotation of the right hip joint was associated with pain.DIAGNOSIS: Radiography and computer tomography (CT) revealed a hypertrophic malunion at the site of the previous posterior osteotomy (Mears type IV) involving the anterior and middle column, according to the 3-column concept, as well as malunion of the left anterior arch (Mears type IV).INTERVENTIONS: The surgery was planned virtually via 3D reconstruction, using the patient's CT, and subsequently performed via transiliac osteotomy and symphysiotomy. Finite element method (FEM) was used to plan the osteotomy and osteosynthesis as to include an estimation of the risk of implant failure.OUTCOMES: There was not incidence of neurological injury or infection, and the remaining leg length discrepancy was \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a2 cm. The patient recovered independent, pain free, mobility. Virtual 3D planning provided a more precise measurement of correction parameters than radiographic-based measurements. FEM analysis identified the highest risk for implant failure at the symphyseal plate osteosynthesis and the parasymphyseal screws. No implant failure was observed.LESSONS: Transiliac osteotomy, with additional osteotomy or symphysiotomy, was a suitable surgical procedure for the correction of pelvic malunion and provided adequate correction of leg length discrepancy. Virtual 3D planning enabled precise determination of correction parameters, with FEM analysis providing an appropriate method to predict areas of implant failure. labels: #Adult#Bone Plates#Female#Finite Element Analysis#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Malunited#Humans#Ilium#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Leg Length Inequality#Osteotomy#Pelvic Bones#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Reoperation#Surgery, Computer-Assisted#Treatment Outcome"
b'Postsurgery infection is a common complication after laparoscopic radical cystectomy (LRC) followed by urinary diversion. White blood cell (WBC) values and C-reactive protein (CRP) are routinely used as markers for infection, but lack of specificity and their elevation is often delayed in clinically significant events. In this study, we aimed to investigate the value of procalcitonin (PCT) kinetics in assisting early diagnosis of infection in patients undergoing LRC.The patients\' medical records between May 2013 and May 2016 were reviewed retrospectively. WBC, CRP, and PCT plasma levels as well as clinical symptoms were registered in 306 patients preoperatively (day 0), and 5 consecutive days postoperatively. Based on microbiological and clinical data, patients were grouped into noninfection- (NI-) and infection- (I-) groups. The day of new onset infection was observed were defined as day t0 and the day after that as day t1. For the NI-group, the day on which PCT was at the peak was defined as day t1 and the previous day as day t0.Of the 306 patients, 46 (15.03%) have proven infection. PCT levels were analogous at day t0:NI-group [median (interquartile range)]: 0.69(1.99) vs I-group [median (interquartile range)]: 1.0[0.75], P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.1. PCT levels were significantly increased at day t1 in the I-group[median (interquartile range)]:2.9(1.3) vs NI-group[median (interquartile range)]: 1.3(1.5), P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01. The area under the curve for the prediction of infection was 0.72 [95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.63-0.81] for the absolute value of PCT; and for delta PCT:0.88 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.81-0.94), P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01. The optimal cut-off value was 0.79 ng/mL with the highest Youden index of 0.80 for delta-PCT to indicate infection. Neither absolute values nor changes in CRP, or WBC could predict infection better. The "delta" was considered as the changes in the absolute values (subtracting day t0 from day t1) of PCT, CRP, and WBC.This study suggest that early elevation of PCT within the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours of new onset infection, interpreted with clinical results, appears to be a promising indicator for the diagnosis of infections following LRC. labels: #Aged#Area Under Curve#Biomarkers#C-Reactive Protein#Calcitonin#Cystectomy#Early Diagnosis#Female#Humans#Kinetics#Laparoscopy#Leukocyte Count#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#Preoperative Period#Prospective Studies#Reference Values#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Urinary Diversion#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'The aim of this article is to investigate the expression of E-cadherin (E-cad) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) of Han and Uygur women patients in western China, and their relationship with clinical features of TNBC.Totally, 172 cases of Han TNBC patients and 79 cases of Uighur TNBC patients were enrolled. The expressions of E-cad and VEGF were detected with immunohistochemistry. The correlation of E-cad and VEGF expression with lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, and histological grade were analyzed. The 5-year disease-free survival rate of the 2 groups was also evaluated.There was no significant difference in the 5-year disease-free survival rate (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and the expression of E-cad between the 2 groups. The positive rate of VEGF in Han was significantly lower than that in Uygur (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The expression of E-cad was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, and histological grade (-1\xe2\x89\xa4r\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a1, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). However, the expression of VEGF was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis and TNM staging (0\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8ar\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a1, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.05), but not with histological grading.The expression of E-cad and VEGF and their relationship with clinical features of TNBC suggest that Uygur TNBC patients might have different prognostic factors as compared with Han patients. labels: #Adult#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cadherins#China#Disease-Free Survival#Ethnic Groups#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lymphatic Metastasis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Survival Rate#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'Paclitaxel has been shown to have clinical activity in the treatment of small cell lung cancer (SCLC). However, its role as third-line chemotherapy for SCLC after both etoposide- and camptothecin-based regimens has not been clarified.All patients with refractory SCLC who were treated with paclitaxel-based regimen as third-line chemotherapy between 2005 and 2011 in Seoul National University Bundang Hospital were reviewed retrospectively. Forty patients previously treated with both etoposide- and camptothecin-based chemotherapy were included.The median age of the enrolled patients was 67 years (range, 35-86 years). Most patients (77.5%) received cisplatin plus etoposide as first-line therapy, and camptothecins such as irinotecan or topotecan as second-line therapy. Of 34 patients with measurable lesions, 8 patients (23.5%) achieved partial response and 9 (26.5%) had stable disease. The median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were 2.5 and 5.9 months, respectively. Predictive factors for OS were performance status (PS) (PS<2 vs \xe2\x89\xa52; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), the presence of liver metastasis (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and number of metastatic sites (<3 vs \xe2\x89\xa53; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.047) in univariate analysis. PS and liver metastasis also remained statistically significant in multivariate analysis. Grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity was 20% for neutropenia, and 10% for thrombocytopenia. Other common non-hematological toxicities were peripheral neuropathy and mild liver enzyme elevation.Paclitaxel-based chemotherapy showed modest activity in SCLC patients refractory to both etoposide- and camptothecin-based chemotherapy. PS and presence of liver metastasis were predictive of survival after paclitaxel chemotherapy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Camptothecin#Cisplatin#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Etoposide#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Metastasis#Paclitaxel#Retrospective Studies#Small Cell Lung Carcinoma#Treatment Outcome'
b'The results of published studies about the relationships between folate intake and risk of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remained inconsistent. Hence, a comprehensive and dose-response meta-analysis was performed to clarify the association between folate intake and HNSCC risk.The electric searches of Pubmed, Medline, and EMBASE databases were performed to identify the studies examining the relationship between folate intake and HNSCC risk on April 5, 2017. According to the inclusion criteria, finally 9 studies were included in this meta-analysis. The pooled odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were used to evaluate the strength of associations. Dose-response analysis was conducted to quantitate the relationship between dietary folate intake and HNSCC risk.The pooled OR for assessing the risk of HNSCC and folate intake in the highest level versus lowest level was 0.505 (95% CI 0.387-0.623). The linearity model of dose-response analysis indicated that with increased 100\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/d folate intake, the risk of HNSCC decreased 4.3% degree (OR 0.957, 95% CI 0.935-0.980).These results indicate that folate is a protective nutrient against HNSCC carcinogenesis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Diet#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Eating#Female#Folic Acid#Folic Acid Deficiency#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Observational Studies as Topic#Odds Ratio#Risk Factors'
b'Several studies have pointed out a significant association between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and accelerated atherosclerosis. At the best of our knowledge, no such study has been carried out in a large Italian series and, in this study, we aimed to investigate the prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of cardiovascular events (CVEs), in patients consecutively admitted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 to Rheumatology Units throughout the whole Italy.Centers members of GIRRCS (Gruppo Italiano di Ricerca in Reumatologia Clinica e Sperimentale) were invited to enrol patients consecutively admitted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 and satisfying American College of Rheumatology/ European League Against Rheumatism criteria for RA and to investigate each of them for: traditional cardiovascular risk factors: sex, age, smoking habit, total cholesterol, triglycerides, glycaemia, high blood pressure, metabolic syndrome (MS), type 2 diabetes (T2D); RA features: disease duration as assessed from the first symptom, disease activity as evaluated by DAS28, radiographic damage as assessed by hands and feet x-ray, and previous joint surgery; prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of CVEs.Eight centers participated to the study. From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, the 1176 patients, who had been investigated for all the items, were enrolled in the study. They were mostly women (80.52%), with a median age of 60 years (range, 18-91 years), a median disease duration of 12 years (range, 0.8-25 years), seropositive in 69.21%. Nineteen percent were in remission; 17.51% presented low disease activity; 39.45% moderate disease activity; 22.61% high disease activity.Eighty-two patients (6.9%) had a history for CVEs (58 myocardial infarction, 38 heart failure, 10 ischemic transitory attack, and 7 stroke). This figure appears to be lower than that reported worldwide (8.5%). After excluding the 82 patients with a history of CV events, subclinical atherosclerosis was detected in 16% of our patients, (176 patients), a figure lower than that reported worldwide (32.7%) and in previous Italian studies.This is the first Italian multicenter study on subclinical and clinical atherosclerosis in patients with RA. We pointed out a low prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of CV events. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthritis, Rheumatoid#Atherosclerosis#Blood Glucose#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cholesterol#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Italy#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Triglycerides#Young Adult'
b'The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between falls and beat-to-beat blood pressure (BP) variability.Continuous noninvasive BP measurement is as accurate as invasive techniques. We evaluated beat-to-beat supine and standing BP variability (BPV) using time and frequency domain analysis from noninvasive continuous BP recordings.A total of 1218 older adults were selected. Continuous BP recordings obtained were analyzed to determine standard deviation (SD) and root mean square of real variability (RMSRV) for time domain BPV and fast-Fourier transform low frequency (LF), high frequency (HF), total power spectral density (PSD), and LF:HF ratio for frequency domain BPV.Comparisons were performed between 256 (21%) individuals with at least 1 fall in the past 12 months and nonfallers. Fallers were significantly older (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.007), more likely to be female (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.006), and required a longer time to complete the Timed-Up and Go test (TUG) and frailty walk test (P\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Standing systolic BPV (SBPV) was significantly lower in fallers compared to nonfallers (SBPV-SD, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.016; SBPV-RMSRV, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.033; SBPV-LF, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003; SBPV-total PSD, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). Nonfallers had significantly higher supine to standing ratio (SSR) for SBPV-SD, SBPV-RMSRV, and SBPV-total PSD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.017, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.013, and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.009). In multivariate analyses, standing BPV remained significantly lower in fallers compared to nonfallers after adjustment for age, sex, diabetes, frailty walk, and supine systolic BP. The reduction in frequency-domain SSR among fallers was attenuated by supine systolic BP, TUG, and frailty walk.In conclusion, reduced beat-to-beat BPV while standing is independently associated with increased risk of falls. Changes between supine and standing BPV are confounded by supine BP and walking speed. labels: #Accidental Falls#Aged#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory#Cohort Studies#Female#Fourier Analysis#Heart Rate#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Malaysia#Male#Middle Aged#Posture#Risk Factors#Supine Position'
b'The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between Paraoxonase-1 (PON1) gene rs662, rs854555 polymorphisms and osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) in Han population, northern China.Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism was used to determine genotypes of PON1 polymorphisms in 84 patients with ONFH and 96 healthy persons. \xcf\x87 test was used to compare distribution differences of genotype, allele, and haplotype between the case and control groups. The odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated to reveal the effects of PON1 polymorphisms on risk of ONFH, and the results were adjusted using logistic regression analysis. The linkage disequilibrium and haplotype analysis were performed with haploview software.That people carrying AA genotype of rs662 were easier to be attacked by ONFH than GG genotype carriers (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.53, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.05-6.07, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). Meanwhile, the frequency of A allele in the case group was significantly higher than the controls and it was a risk factor for ONFH (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.56, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.03-2.38, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). The A-A haplotype frequency of rs854555-rs662 in PON1 was significantly correlated to the increased susceptibility to ONFH (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.74, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.28-5.84).The rs662 polymorphism in PON1 may be associated with ONFH susceptibility, but not rs854555 in Han population, northern China. Additionally, haplotype is also a nonignorable risk factor. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alleles#Aryldialkylphosphatase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Femur Head Necrosis#Gene Frequency#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length#Risk Factors'
b'We aimed to investigate the prognostic value of postpathological characters in nonmetastatic breast cancer (NMBC) patients who received preoperative radiotherapy (PRT) followed by mastectomy (MAST).We conducted retrospective analyses using the data collected from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program of the National Cancer Institute. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify prognostic factors. Disease-specific survival was calculated by the Kaplan-Meier curve and validated by log rank test. The discriminations of independent risk factors and staging systems were compared by the area under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) and validated by Harrell concordance index (bootstrapping algorithm). Akaike information criterion (AIC) was applied to compare the difference of model.One thousand three hundred fifty NMBC patients who had received PRT followed by MAST from 1988 to 2013 were included in the study. We found the metastatic lymph node ratio (mLNR) staging was a superior indicator than pN staging. Thus, we proposed a T-lymph node ratio (T-NR) staging system with simplified-T categories (T0-3 and T4) and the mLNR staging. The novel T-NR staging system provided larger AUC (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024, .008, respectively) and the smaller AIC (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) value than American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system.The novel T-NR staging system performed more accurate survival prediction and better model fitness for NMBC patients who receive PRT followed by MAST, it may provide a wide applicability in clinical decision-making. labels: #Algorithms#Breast Neoplasms#Clinical Decision-Making#Female#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Mastectomy#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#ROC Curve#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Retrospective Studies#SEER Program#Treatment Outcome'
b'Few reports have described the significance of viral respiratory infections (VRIs) in exacerbation of asthma in adult patients. The aim of this study was to elucidate the profiles of VRIs in adult patients with asthma along with their molecular epidemiology.A cross-sectional observational study was conducted at Kyorin University Hospital from August 2012 to May 2015. To identify respiratory pathogens in inpatients and outpatients suffering from asthma attacks, RT-PCR/sequencing/phylogenetic analysis methods were applied alongside conventional microbiological methods. Phylogenetic and pairwise distance analyses of 10 viruses were performed.A total of 106 asthma attack patients enrolled in this study in both inpatient (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a49) and outpatient (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a57) settings. The total 106 respiratory samples were obtained from nasopharyngeal swab (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a68) or sputum (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a38). Among these, patients with virus alone (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a39), virus and bacterial (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5), and bacterial alone (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5) were identified. The ratio of virus-positive patients in inpatient or outpatient to the total cases were 31.1% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) and 10.4% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a11), respectively. The frequency of virus-positive patients was significantly higher in inpatients (75.3%, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) than in outpatients (19.3%, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a11). Major VRIs included human rhinovirus (HRV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a24), human metapneumovirus (hMPV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a9), influenza virus (Inf-V) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a8), and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3) infections with seasonal variations. HRV-A and HRV-C were the most commonly detected viruses, with wide genetic divergence on phylogenetic analysis.Asthmatic exacerbations in adults are highly associated with VRIs such as HRV-A or HRV-C, hMPV, RSV, and Inf-V infections with seasonal variations and genetic divergence, but similar frequencies of VRIs occurred in asthma attack patients throughout the seasons. labels: #Adult#Aged#Asthma#Bacterial Infections#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Genotype#Humans#Inpatients#Japan#Male#Metapneumovirus#Middle Aged#Nasopharynx#Orthomyxoviridae#Outpatients#Phylogeny#RNA Viruses#Respiratory Syncytial Viruses#Respiratory Tract Infections#Rhinovirus#Seasons#Sputum#Virus Diseases'
b'BACKGROUND: Several previous studies were carried out on the association between xeroderma pigmentosum group G (XPG) gene polymorphisms (including rs873601 G>A, rs2094258 C>T, rs2296147 T>C, and rs751402 C>T) and the risk of gastric cancer in Chinese populations. However, their conclusions were not consistent. Therefore, this meta-analysis was performed by us to investigate the association between the 4 potentially functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of XPG gene and gastric cancer risk.METHODS: The eligible literatures were identified through PubMed, Embase, Ovid MEDLINE, Web of Science, CNKI, and Wan fang databases up to July 2017. Finally, 5 studies for rs873601, 7 studies for rs2094258, 4 studies for rs2296147, and 8 studies for rs751402 were used for the current meta-analysis.RESULTS: Of the 4 included SNPs, only rs751402 was showed to be associated with the risk of gastric cancer [C vs T, odds ratio (OR)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.16, 95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.04-1.29; CC\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aCT vs TT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.23, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.00-1.52; CC vs CT\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.15, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.05-1.27; CC vs TT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.35, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.06-1.72; CC vs CT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.13, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.02-1.25].CONCLUSION: The current meta-analysis demonstrated that the XPG gene polymorphism rs751402 was associated with increased susceptibility to gastric cancer in Chinese populations. However, studies with a larger number of subjects among different ethnic groups are needed to further validate the results. labels: #Adult#Aged#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#China#DNA-Binding Proteins#Endonucleases#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nuclear Proteins#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Stomach Neoplasms#Transcription Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Pravastatin has emerged for prevention and treatment of preeclampsia; no reports are available on pravastatin and HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets) syndrome.PATIENT CONCERNS: The first pregnancy necessitated termination of pregnancy at gestational age (GA) 20+5 for HELLP. Intrauterine fetal death at GA 22+5 occurred in the second pregnancy, whilst on temporizing management of HELLP.DIAGNOSES: Severe, recurrent early-onset HELLP syndrome.INTERVENTIONS: In her fourth pregnancy, pravastatin was commenced at GA 13.OUTCOMES: The course of pregnancy was uncomplicated, and a healthy, appropriate for gestational age fetus was delivered at term.LESSONS: Pravastatin may be effective in prevention of HELLP. The hepatic uptake may be of particular advantage. labels: #Adult#Female#Gestational Age#HELLP Syndrome#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Live Birth#Pravastatin#Pregnancy#Recurrence#Term Birth#Treatment Outcome'
b'In spinal fusion surgery, total blood loss (TBL) is composed of visible blood loss from the surgical field and wound drainage, and hidden blood loss (HBL). Until now, no published studies exist reporting the effect of topical use of tranexamic acid (tTXA) on HBL in patients undergoing posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. This study aimed to explore the effect of tTXA on HBL during primary posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. Between September 2014 and September 2016, 100 adult patients (age\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a18 years) with lumbar disc herniation or lumbar spinal stenosis undergoing primary posterior lumbar instrumented spinal fusions at 1 institution were divided into tTXA and control groups. The primary outcome was HBL. Secondary outcomes include TBL, intraoperative blood loss (IBL), postoperative blood loss (PBL), hemoglobin (HGB) levels on preoperative (Pre-op) and postoperatively (days 1-3, POD1, POD2, POD3, respectively), and amount of allogeneic blood transfusion. Complications occurring perioperatively until hospitalization discharge were also collected. In the tTXA group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a50 patients), wound surface was soaked with TXA (1\xe2\x80\x8ag in 100\xe2\x80\x8amL saline solution) for 5\xe2\x80\x8aminutes before wound closure. For the control group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a50 patients), wound surface was soaked with the same volume of normal saline. There were no significant differences in demographics, surgical traits between the 2 groups. There were no significant differences in IBL or perioperative blood transfusion requirements between the 2 groups. However, in the tTXA group, TBL, PBL, and HBL were significantly lower than those in the control group (550 \xc2\xb1 268 vs 833\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a298\xe2\x80\x8amL, 53.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a43.9 vs 136.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a87.9\xe2\x80\x8amL, 356.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a254.8 vs 501.1\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a216.9\xe2\x80\x8amL, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). HGB levels were significantly higher in the tTXA group (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) on POD1 and had a slower decline on POD2 and POD3 than the control group. No complications associated with TXA were observed. From these data, we conclude that tTXA can effectively reduce HBL, without significant complications in adult patients undergoing posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. labels: #Administration, Topical#Adult#Aged#Antifibrinolytic Agents#Blood Loss, Surgical#Blood Transfusion#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Hemorrhage#Retrospective Studies#Spinal Fusion#Tranexamic Acid#Treatment Outcome'
b'This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of celecoxib 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours preoperative, 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour preoperative, and 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperative administration in patients with arthroscopic knee surgery (AKS).In all, 206 patients who underwent AKS were consecutively recruited and randomized into 3 groups: (1) early preoperative analgesia group (EPEA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours preoperative administration; (2) preoperative analgesia group (PEA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour preoperative administration; (3) postoperative analgesia group (POA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperative administration. Pain visual analog scale (VAS) scores (at rest and at 90 flexion) and patient global assessment (PGA) score were evaluated before and after operation, and also pethidine consumption and adverse events (AEs).The pain-rest VAS score, percentage of patients with moderate-severe pain at rest, and PGA score in the EPEA and PEA groups were decreased compared with POA group at 8 and 12\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperation. Besides, pain-flexion to 90 VAS score in EPEA and PEA groups were also reduced compared with POA group at 8\xe2\x80\x8ahours postsurgery. Interestingly, the percentage of patients with moderate-severe pain at 90 flexion at 8\xe2\x80\x8ahours postsurgery in PEA group was fewer compared with POA group, whereas at 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperation it was reduced in EPEA group compared with PEA and POA groups. As to consumption of pethidine, it was numerically decreased in EPEA and PEA groups compared with POA group. No difference between each 2 groups was found in AEs.Celecoxib was effective and safe as pre-emptive analgesia in AKS, and 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour administration before operation might be an optimal choice. labels: #Adult#Analgesia#Arthroscopy#Celecoxib#Cyclooxygenase 2 Inhibitors#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Knee Joint#Male#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Preoperative Period#Prospective Studies#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'PROPOSE: There are embryological origins, anatomical, histological, genetic, and immunological differences between right-sided colon cancer (RCC) and left-sided colon cancer (LCC). Many studies have sought to determine the survival and prognosis according to tumor location. This study aimed to analyze outcomes between RCC and LCC.MATERIAL AND METHOD: Between January 2000 and December 2012, data on 414 patients who underwent curative resection for RCC and LCC were retrieved from a retrospective database. Propensity score matching (1:1) was performed and RCC was identified in 207 and LCC in 207 patients.RESULTS: On average, RCC exhibited a more advanced N stage, increased tumor size, more frequently poorly differentiated tumors, more harvested lymph nodes, and more positivity of lymphovascular invasion than LCC. With a median follow-up of 66.7 months, the 5-year overall survival (OS) rates for RCC and LCC were 82.1% and 88.7%, respectively, (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rates were 81.4% (RCC) and 88.3% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). In stage III cancers, the DFS rates were 61.1% (RCC) and 81.9% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), while the OS rates were 65.6% (RCC) and 78.6% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.056).CONCLUSION: On the basis of present data, LCC exhibited better survival outcomes than RCC after curative resection. Especially in stage III, LCC showed better oncologic outcomes. Proper specialized treatment related to the location of colon cancer is needed. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Colectomy#Colon#Colonic Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Propensity Score#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b'The 2016 American Thoracic Society and Infectious Diseases Society of America (ATS/IDSA) guidelines removed the concept of healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP). We examined whether the 2016\xe2\x80\x8aATS/IDSA guidelines are applicable in Korea.We conducted a retrospective, observational study of pneumonia patients who were hospitalized at a tertiary teaching hospital from March 2012 to February 2014. Identified pathogens that were not susceptible to \xce\xb2-lactams, macrolides, and fluoroquinolones were defined as community-acquired pneumonia drug-resistant pathogens (CAP-DRPs). We analyzed the risk factors for 28-day mortality and the occurrence rate of CAP-DRPs.Of the 1046 patients, 399 were classified with HCAP and 647 with CAP. HCAP patients were older and had more comorbidities than CAP patients. Initial pneumonia severity index (PSI) was higher in patients with HCAP than with CAP. HCAP was associated with not only an increased rate of CAP-DRPs (HCAP, 19.8%; CAP, 4.0%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) but also an increased rate of inappropriate initial antibiotic therapy (IIAT) (HCAP, 16.8%; CAP, 4.6%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). HCAP was also associated with an increased 28-day mortality rate compared with CAP (HCAP, 14.5%; CAP, 6.3%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). In a multivariable analysis, PSI was an independent risk factor for 28-day mortality in HCAP patients (odds ratio 1.02, 95% confidence interval 1.01-1.04). CAP-DRPs and IIAT were not associated with mortality.Patients with HCAP revealed higher rates of CAP-DRPs, IIAT, and mortality than patients with CAP. However, CAP-DRPs and IIAT were not associated with mortality. PSI was the main predictive factor for 28-day mortality in patients with HCAP. labels: #Aged#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Community-Acquired Infections#Cross Infection#Drug Resistance, Bacterial#Female#Hospital Mortality#Hospitals, Teaching#Humans#Inappropriate Prescribing#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Pneumonia#Prognosis#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Tertiary Care Centers'
b'RATIONALE: Intraluminal migration of a retained surgical sponge causing intestinal obstruction and fistula is extremely rare occurrence.PATIENT CONCERNS: A case of a 35-year-old male, who complaining a diffuse abdominal pain beginning three days earlier. He also complained of occasional vomiting, nonspecific abdominal pain, and an unintentional 15\xe2\x80\x8akg weight loss during the past 2 years. However, there were no clear findings in previous laboratory work. He had received an open appendectomy approximately 4 years earlier.DIAGNOSES: Retained surgical sponge.INTERVENTIONS: A contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen showed a clear invagination of the small intestine. However, intraoperatively, we could not find an intestinal segment with intussusception. After the adhesive intestine was detached, a jejunal-ileal cross-linked fistula was found. More surprisingly, a retained surgical sponge was found inside the ileal fistula when the cross-linked fistula was detached.OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged 7 days after surgery.LESSONS: This is the first report showing an atypical image of a complete transmural migration of a retained surgical sponge mimicking intussusception. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Adult#Appendectomy#Diagnosis, Differential#Foreign Bodies#Foreign-Body Migration#Humans#Ileal Diseases#Ileum#Intestinal Fistula#Intestinal Obstruction#Intussusception#Male#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b"Nonspecific low back pain (LBP) is a common musculoskeletal problem that is intensified during physical activity. Patients with LBP have been reported to change their abdominal muscle activity during walking; however, the effects of pain intensity, disability level, and fear-avoidance belief on this relationship have not been evaluated. Thus, we compared abdominal muscle activity in patients with LBP and asymptomatic controls, and assessed the impact of pain intensity, disability level, and fear-avoidance belief.Thirty patients with LBP divided into groups reporting low (LLBP) and high-pain intensity low back pain (HLBP), and 15 participants without LBP were recruited. LBP patients' self-reported pain intensity, disability, and fear-avoidance belief were recorded. To examine abdominal muscle activity (rectus abdominis [RA], internal [IO], and external oblique [EO] muscles) during walking, all subjects walked at a self-selected speed. Abdominal muscle activity (RA, IO, and EO) was compared among groups (LLBP, HLBP, and controls) in different phases of walking (double support vs swing). Relationships between abdominal muscle activity and clinical measures (pain intensity, disability, fear-avoidance belief) were analyzed using partial correlation analysis.Right IO muscle activity during walking was significantly decreased in LLBP and HLBP compared with controls in certain walking phase. Partial correlation coefficients showed significant correlations between fear-avoidance belief and right EO activity (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.377, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and between disability index and left IO activity (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.377, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in patients with LBP. No significant difference was found in abdominal muscle activity in walking between patients with LLBP and HLBP (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05).This study demonstrated decreased IO muscle activity during certain walking phases in LLBP and HLBP compared with asymptomatic participants. Although altered IO muscle activity during walking was observed in patients with LBP, no changes were found with other abdominal muscles (EO, RA). Thus, these results provide useful information about abdominal muscle activity during walking in patients with LBP. labels: #Abdominal Muscles#Adult#Avoidance Learning#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Fear#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Muscle Contraction#Pain Measurement#Walking#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Gene alterations are crucial to the molecular pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer. The present study was designed to identify the potential candidate genes in the pancreatic carcinogenesis.METHODS: Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO) datasets of pancreatic cancer tissue were retrieval and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from individual microarray data were merged. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, and gene coexpression analysis were performed.RESULTS: Three GEO datasets, including 74 pancreatic cancer samples and 55 controls samples were selected. A total of 2325 DEGs were identified, including 1383 upregulated and 942 downregulated genes. The GO terms for molecular functions, biological processes, and cellular component were protein binding, small molecule metabolic process, and integral to membrane, respectively. The most significant pathway in KEGG analysis was metabolic pathways. PPI network analysis indicated that the significant hub genes including cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily E, polypeptide 1 (CYP2E1), mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPK3), and phospholipase C, gamma 1 (PLCG1). Gene coexpression network analysis identified 4 major modules, and the potassium channel tetramerization domain containing 10 (KCTD10), kin of IRRE like (KIRREL), dipeptidyl-peptidase 10 (DPP10), and unc-80 homolog (UNC80) were the hub gene of each modules, respectively.CONCLUSION: Our integrative analysis provides a comprehensive view of gene expression patterns associated with the pancreatic carcinogenesis. labels: #Carcinogenesis#Carrier Proteins#Case-Control Studies#Cytochrome P-450 CYP2E1#Databases, Genetic#Dipeptidyl-Peptidases and Tripeptidyl-Peptidases#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Gene Ontology#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 3#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Phospholipase C gamma#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Protein Interaction Maps#Signal Transduction'
b'Incidental cardiovascular findings are common and can be found in up to 70% of patients. Previously, several reports about incidental findings (IFs) on whole body computed tomography (CT) were published. However, no previous study investigated cardiovascular IFs in patients with unclear finding situation and trauma of unknown origin on whole body CT.The radiological database of 2 university hospitals was screened for patients with trauma of unknown origin and unclear finding situation investigated by whole body CT. The images were retrospectively analyzed by 2 radiologists in consensus. The findings were classified according to their clinical relevance. Clinically nonrelevant findings like valvular sclerosis, aortic sclerosis, or anatomic variants were excluded from this study. Moreover, the radiology reports were analyzed to assess initial reporting by the radiologist.Overall, we identified 60 patients with a mean age of 63 years. A total of 98 clinically relevant cardiovascular IFs (CRCIF) were identified in 60 (75%) patients (1.6 CRCIF per patient). The most prevalent finding was cardiomegaly in 23 patients, followed by coronary sclerosis in 21 patients and aortic ectasia in 11 patients; other findings were rarer. Sixty-one findings were reported (62.2%) and 37 were nonreported (37.8%). Thirty patients (50%) showed no traumatic event on whole body CT.CRCIFs are common in patients with unclear finding situation and trauma of unknown origin. Despite initial indication for trauma detection, the whole body CT should carefully be evaluated for CRCIF because of the high prevalence of clinically relevant findings. Notably, 37.76% of the findings were not reported by the radiologist. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiovascular Diseases#Female#Humans#Incidental Findings#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Whole Body Imaging#Wounds and Injuries#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Up to 40% of women gain excessive weight during pregnancy. Obesity complications and risks in parturient women undergoing cesarean section (CS) with different anesthetic methods remain unknown. This study aimed to assess the safety and risk of obese women undergoing CS delivery with various perioperative anesthetic methods.METHODS: Seven hundred ninety parturient women underwent CS under general anesthesia (GA), intraspinal anesthesia including epidural anesthesia (EA) and combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSEA). They were divided into morbid (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a255), severe (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a274), and non-obesity (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a261) groups. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (number NCT03002636).RESULT: Between 2013 and 2016, 790 pregnant were assessed. Compared with the non-obesity group, there were significantly more fetal distress and higher body mass index (BMI) in the morbid obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). Significantly more patients showed preeclampsia, multifetation, amniotic fluid abnormality, and high bleeding amounts in the morbid obesity group compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.048, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.017, and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.018, respectively); more patients were administered EA and GA compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, respectively). More post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) patients were found in the severe obesity group no more than the non-obesity group. Significantly increased anesthesia puncture times for 5\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8an\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8a3 and n\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8a5 were obtained in the morbid obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, respectively), with more patients in the puncture sitting position, compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001).CONCLUSION: GA, EA, and CSEA are safe and effective in severely or morbidly obese patients. Morbidly obese parturient show increased likelihood for fetal distress, PACU, sitting position puncture, puncture difficulty, and other pregnancy complications. There were more anesthesia puncture times in morbidly obese patients. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia#Anesthesia, Epidural#Anesthesia, General#Anesthesia, Spinal#Apgar Score#Body Mass Index#Cesarean Section#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Obesity, Morbid#Postoperative Complications#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Pregnancy Outcome#Prospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: The liver is the most frequent site of relapse of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). Surgery is always considered to be unsuitable because of the multiple metastases.PATIENT CONCERNS: In this report, we describe a case of large, multiple GIST liver metastases that were treated with percutaneous microwave ablation liver partition and portal vein embolization for planned hepatectomy (PALPP). A 44-year-old woman had undergone pancreaticoduodenectomy 4 years previously because of the diagnosis of a large duodenal GIST. Large, multiple liver metastases were observed 2 years later.DIAGNOSES: GIST liver metastasis was diagnosed using percutaneous ultrasound-guided biopsy.INTERVENTIONS: After 6 months of treatment with imatinib, the liver metastasis was stable. PALPP was performed because of insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) and right trisegmentectomy was successfully completed 10 days later.OUTCOMES: The patient has had no signs of local or systemic disease during 17 months of postsurgical follow-up.LESSONS: PALPP provides a new methodology for treatment of GIST liver metastasis in patients with insufficient FLR, and may have benefit in prolonging a durable remission. labels: #Adult#Catheter Ablation#Embolization, Therapeutic#Female#Gastrointestinal Neoplasms#Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors#Hepatectomy#Humans#Liver#Liver Neoplasms#Microwaves#Portal Vein'
b'RATIONALE: Although myocardial bridging (MB) is usually considered as benign, initial medical therapy and following surgical treatment in drug-refractory cases has been widely accepted for managing symptomatic MB. Before the patient proceeds to percutaneous or surgical intervention, however, the presence of objective ischemia in the corresponding myocardial territory should be documented.PATIENT CONCERN AND INTERVENTION: We herein report a 43-year-old male complaining of chest pain in whom cardiac CT with myocardial perfusion (cCTP) showed an MB of left anterior descending artery (LAD) with preoperative perfusion defect in corresponding myocardium and normalization of perfusion after supra-arterial myotomy.DIAGNOSIS: Myocardial bridging-induced ischemia.LESSONS: This case illustrates the potential utility of cCTP for the simultaneous assessment of MB and its hemodynamic significance for treatment planning and post-therapeutic evaluation although further research is needed to establish the clinical usefulness of this technique. labels: #Adult#Humans#Male#Myocardial Bridging#Myocardial Ischemia#Myocardial Perfusion Imaging'
b'This study aimed to investigate the association between sleeping pill use and hypertension or blood pressure (BP) via a cross-sectional analysis.A total of 11,225 subjects (5875 men and 5350 women) underwent health examinations. We compared the proportion of sleeping pill users among hypertension (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5099) and normotensive (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6126) participants. We analyzed participants with no intake of antihypertensive medication (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7788), comparing the proportions with high systolic BP (SBP) \xe2\x89\xa5140, high diastolic BP (DBP) \xe2\x89\xa590, and high pulse pressure (PP) \xe2\x89\xa550\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg across 3 subgroups. These groups were classified according to the sleeping pill use [nonuse group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6869); low-frequency-use group, defined as taking sleeping pills \xe2\x89\xa42 days per week (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a344); and high-frequency-use group, defined as taking sleeping pills \xe2\x89\xa53 days per week (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a575)].In the multivariable-adjusted model, odds of sleeping pill use (odds ratio (OR), 1.14; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) was significantly higher in the hypertensive group compared with the normotensive group. In participants with no intake of antihypertensive medication, odds of high SBP (OR, 0.65; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0005), high DBP (OR, 0.58; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.005), and high PP (OR, 0.77; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) were significantly lower in the high-frequency-use group compared with the nonuse group. Odds of high DBP (OR, 0.59; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) was significantly lower in the low-frequency-use group.Sleeping pills were more frequently required in hypertensive participants than in the normotensive ones. Sleeping pill use may decrease BP and assist in the treatment of high BP in patients with sleep disturbances. labels: #Aged#Antihypertensive Agents#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Sleep#Sleep Aids, Pharmaceutical#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: In total hip replacement (THR), it is essential to achieve a primary stability to guarantee good long-term results. A novel locking screw hip (LSH)-stem, anchored to the medial cortex of the proximal femur by 5 monocortical locking screws, was developed to overcome the shortcomings of uncemented press-fit and cemented straight stems while simultaneously achieving primary stability. The aim of this study was to investigate the biomechanical competence of the LSH-stem in comparison to an uncemented press-fit stem.METHODS: Six pairs of embalmed human cadaveric femora from donors aged 68 to 84 years were assigned to 2 study groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6) with equal number of right and left bones. The specimens in each group and pair were implanted with either an uncemented press-fit stem or an LSH-stem and tested biomechanically under progressively increasing cyclic axial loading until catastrophic failure. Axial construct stiffness, failure load, and cycles to failure were detected and statistically evaluated at a level of significance P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.05.RESULTS: Although the axial stiffness was comparable for both prosthesis types, the uncemented press-fit stem showed a significant lower stability in terms of failure load and cycles to failure in comparison to the LSH-stem, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04.CONCLUSION: Converting our results to percentage of bodyweight (BW) in an assumed adult patient of 80\xe2\x80\x8akg shows that the LSH-stem achieves a primary stability allowing to carry average loads of up to 507% BW, whereas the uncemented press-fit stem carried average loads of up to 404% BW. We conclude that both stems achieve a primary stability strong enough to carry hip joint loads experienced in the immediate rehabilitation period after THR. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Biomechanical Phenomena#Bone Screws#Cadaver#Femur#Humans#Joint Instability#Male#Prosthesis Design'
b'This study aimed to retrospectively investigate the factors related to pediatric obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children younger than 6 years and those older than 6 years.A total of 437 children who were hospitalized due to OSAHS between January 2014 and December 2014 were retrospectively reviewed. The children were further divided into OSAHS group and OSAHS + ADHD group. The general characteristics, OSA-18 quality of life, intention-hyperactivity score, and polysomnographic parameters (apnea-hypopnea index and the lowest oxygen saturation) were collected and compared between groups.There were 298 boys and 139 girls with the male to female ratio of 2.14:1. ADHD was found in 146 children including 105 boys and 41 girls with the male to female ratio of 2.56:1. Of these children, 31.62% and 35.46% had concomitant ADHD in children aged 4 to 5 years and those aged 6 to 11 years, respectively. In children aged 4 to 5 years, the incidence of allergic rhinitis was significantly higher (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.016) and the adenoid hypertrophy was more severe (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001) in those with concomitant ADHD. In children aged 6 to 11 years, the tonsil hypertrophy was more severe in those with concomitant ADHD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.019). In children with concomitant ADHD, OSA-18 score was higher than in those with OSAHS alone (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Higher frequency of respiratory events (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and more severe hypoxia (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were found in children with concomitant ADHD than in those with OSAHS alone.As high as 30% of OSAHS children have concomitant ADHD, and the incidence of ADHD in OSAHS children is increasing over age. Boys are more likely to develop OSAHS and incidence of ADHD in OSAHS boys is higher than in OSAHS girls. In addition, risk factors of ADHD also vary between age groups. The ADHD is related to the severity of allergic rhinitis and adenoid hypertrophy in children aged 4 to 5 years, and to the severity of tonsil hypertrophy in children aged 6 to 11 years. Hypoxia may be an important factor causing ADHD. OSAHS should be treated as early as possible to reduce the incidence of ADHD in children. labels: #Adenoids#Age Factors#Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Male#Palatine Tonsil#Pharyngeal Diseases#Polysomnography#Quality of Life#Retrospective Studies#Rhinitis, Allergic#Severity of Illness Index#Sex Factors#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive'
b'RATIONALE: Regorafenib is effective for metastatic colorectal cancer but its toxicity such as hemorrhage should be considered. The safety of regorafenib for the patient with the liver disease is not known.PATIENT CONCERNS: Seventy-one-year old man of colon cancer had myodesopsia and blood stool after 14 days from the initiation of regorafenib administration with 50% dose reduction due to liver dysfunction.DIAGNOSES: Fundus examination revealed hemorrhage of the retinal vein.INTERVENTIONS: Regorafenib treatment was discontinued and observational therapy was pursued.OUTCOMES: Retinal and gastrointestinal hemorrhage resolved in 1 week.LESSONS: Retinal hemorrhage should be considered as the differential diagnosis of myodesopsia in the patient treated by regorafenib. Safety and pharmacokinetic of continuous regorafenib administration for patients with liver dysfunction remains to be clarified. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Colorectal Neoplasms#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Humans#Liver Diseases#Male#Neoplasm Metastasis#Phenylurea Compounds#Pyridines#Retinal Hemorrhage'
b'To evaluate association of central blood pressure (BP) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in diabetic patients with hypertension.This was a cross-section study and 360 participants were enrolled. Baseline characteristics were collected and indices of central BP including central systolic/diastolic BP (SBP/DBP), augmentation index adjusted for 75 beats per minute of heart rate (AIx@75) were measured. Participants were separated into with and without CVD groups and between-group differences were assessed. Linear regression analysis was used to evaluate potential risk factors for increased AIx@75. Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate association between central SBP and AIx@75 with CVD.Mean age was 50.6 years and male participants accounted for 57.8%. Thirty-five and 43 participants had coronary heart disease and ischemic stroke. Compared with participants without CVD, those with CVD were more likely to be male and smokers and had higher glycated hemoglobin level. Additionally, participants with CVD had significantly higher central SBP and AIx@75 compared with those without CVD. Ageing, male gender, and presence of coronary heart disease and ischemic stroke were associated with increased AIx@75, whereas renin-angiotensin-axis inhibitor was associated with reduced AIx@75. After adjusted for traditional risk factors including brachial SBP, both central SBP, and AIx@75 remained significantly associated with CVD, with odds ratio and 95% confidence interval of 1.09 (1.08-1.31) and 1.20 (1.15-1.42), respectively.Diabetic patients with hypertension, ageing, male gender, and presence of CVD are independent risk factors of central BP increase; and increased central SBP and AIx@75 are significantly associated with CVD. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Blood Pressure#Cardiovascular Diseases#China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Heart Rate#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Regression Analysis#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Smoking'
b'This study is to prospectively evaluate the efficiency of sonography for volvulus diagnosis in neonates with clinically suspected intestinal malrotation.A total of 83 patients with suspected intestinal malrotation who underwent detailed abdominal sonography and upper gastrointestinal contrast study were included. Malrotation was characterized by inversion of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and superior mesenteric vein (SMV) in sonographic examination. The "whirlpool sign" of Color Doppler Sonography was recognized as a characteristic for malrotation with volvulus. The degrees of rotation of the SMV winding around SMA were also detected by sonography. Surgery was performed in patients with sonography diagnosed malrotation.A total of 39 patients were sonographically diagnosed as malrotation which was subsequently confirmed by surgery. The sensitivity and positive predictive value of the sonographic diagnosis were both 100% (39/39). The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of "whirlpool sign" for the detection of midgut volvulus were 95.2% (20/21), 88.9% (16/18), and 92.3% (36/39), respectively. Greater degrees of rotation (equal or greater than 720\xc2\xb0) showed higher risk (odds ratio, 5.0; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) for intestinal necrosis occurrence.Sonography is more accurate in diagnosing suspected malrotation than upper gastrointestinal contrast study. Specific sonographic "whirlpool sign" related to volvulus may be used as a potential indicator for intestinal necrosis. In addition, sonography can exclude malrotation and may help the diagnosis of other diseases, such as annular pancreas and duodenal atresia. labels: #Digestive System Abnormalities#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Intestinal Volvulus#Male#Mesenteric Artery, Superior#Mesenteric Veins#Sensitivity and Specificity#Ultrasonography, Doppler, Color'
b"RATIONALE: Information on referred pain can be helpful for diagnosing diseases of the visceral organs. Here, the authors report a patient with cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) who had referred pain at the right side from the neck to shoulder, as a presentation of pulmonary embolism (PE).PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old man with complete tetraplegia, due to cervical SCI after C5 and C6 vertebral body fracture, complained of right neck-to-shoulder pain (numerical scale rating: 6). Despite pain medication (meloxicam 15\xe2\x80\x8amg, gabapentin 400\xe2\x80\x8amg, and propacetamol HCl 1\xe2\x80\x8ag), the pain was not reduced. Along with right neck-to-shoulder pain, he presented mild fever (37.8\xc2\xb0C) and mildly elevated respiratory rate (20\xe2\x80\x8abreaths/min). D-dimer level was also mildly elevated to 6.09\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL (normal value:\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.5\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL).DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography pulmonary angiography revealed PE in the right lower lobe pulmonary artery.INTERVENTIONS: For managing PE, rivaroxaban was administered for three days.OUTCOMES: After the administration of rivaroxaban, the patient's pain completely disappeared.LESSONS: This study shows that pain at the neck-to-shoulder area can occur following unexpected causes such as PE. Not limited to PE, the evaluation of diseases in the thoracic or abdominal organs is recommended if patients with cervical SCI present refractory pain in the dermatomes innervated by high cervical nerve roots. labels: #Cervical Cord#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neck Pain#Pulmonary Embolism#Shoulder Pain#Spinal Cord Injuries"
b'RATIONALE: Iridoschisis is a rare eye disease. In this case report, we described the examination and diagnosis of a case of iridoschisis accompanied by secondary glaucoma. We also observed the effects of treating the patient with a combination of goniosynechialysis and cataract removal.PATIENT CONCERN: A 67-year-old female patient presented with decreased vision in both eyes. An eye examination indicated that visual acuities (VAs) were 20/100 and light perception in the right and left eyes, respectively. Both eyes exhibited shallow anterior chambers and narrow angles. The lower portion of the iris was loosened, and cable-like tissue was visible. The intraocular pressures in the right and left eyes were 22 mmHg and 58 mmHg, respectively. At the time of presentation, no medication was being used.DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with iridoschisis [oculus sinister (OU), indicates left eye], secondary glaucoma (OU), senile cataract (OU), and pterygium (oculus uterque, indicates both eyes).INTERVENTION: After relevant examinations were conducted, goniosynechialysis and phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation were performed on the right eye under local anesthesia.OUTCOMES: Two days after surgery, the right eye had VA of 20/40 and a transparent cornea. The anterior chamber was deeper, and intraocular pressure had decreased to 16 mmHg. Three months after surgery, the patient exhibited improved VA in the right eye and a lower IOP of 11 mmHg.LESSONS: Relative to other approaches, goniosynechialysis combined with cataract removal is a better treatment option for iridoschisis complicated with closed-angle glaucoma triggered by peripheral anterior synechiae. labels: #Aged#Cataract#Cataract Extraction#Female#Glaucoma, Angle-Closure#Humans#Iris Diseases#Pterygium'
b'BACKGROUND: Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) instillation is widely used as an adjuvant therapy after transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) in patients with intermediate- and high-risk nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). However, the effective dose, duration, and strain of BCG have not yet been clearly determined. We aimed to elucidate the relationship between dose, duration, and strain of BCG and clinical outcomes in NMIBC patients treated with TURBT.METHODS: We conducted a literature search in Embase, Scopus, and PubMed databases for all relevant articles published up to October 2016 in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-analysis guidelines. The relative risks of clinical outcomes, including recurrence, progression, cancer-specific mortality, and all-cause mortality according to dose (standard vs low), duration (induction vs maintenance), and strain of BCG were presented as the pooled risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI).RESULTS: Nineteen studies meeting the inclusion criteria were finally selected in this meta-analysis. The risk of recurrence was significantly highly observed in case of low-dose BCG (RR, 1.17; 95% CI 1.06-1.30) and induction BCG (RR, 1.33; 95% CI 1.17-1.50) only group without heterogeneity among the included studies. Although there were no significant differences between dose or duration and other clinical outcomes. On direct comparison in each study comparing BCG strains, the Tice stain showed a relatively high probability of recurrence compared with the Connaught (RR, 1.29; 95% CI 1.01-1.64) and RIVM (RR, 2.04, 95% CI 1.28-3.25) strains. Funnel plot testing revealed no significant publication bias.CONCLUSION: The use of standard dose and maintenance BCG instillation may be effective to reduce recurrence rate after TURBT for NMIBC. Further large scale, well-designed, and prospective studies, with stratification of the patients into risk group at randomization, will be required to determine the optimal guideline of BCG use to improve clinical outcomes in NMIBC. labels: #Administration, Intravesical#BCG Vaccine#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Administration Schedule#Humans#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prospective Studies#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'RATIONALE: Central nervous system (CNS) involvement of graft versus host disease (GvHD) is a rare cause of CNS disorders after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Chronic CNS GvHD symptoms are heterogeneous and include cerebrovascular manifestations, demyelinating disease and immune-mediated encephalitis. CNS-Acute GvHD is not formally defined in literature.PATIENTS CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSES: We report 7 cases of CNS-GvHD among which two had histological-proven disease. We reviewed 32 additional cases of CNS GvHD published in literature since 1990. In this cohort, 34 patients were transplanted for hematologic malignancies, and 5 for non-malignant hematopoiesis disorders. Of these patients, 25 had a history of chronic GvHD and immunosuppressive treatment had been decreased or discontinued in 14 patients before neurological symptoms onset. Median neurological disorder onset was 385 days [7-7320]. Patients had stroke-like episodes (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7), lacunar syndromes (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3), multiple sclerosis-like presentations (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7), acute demyelinating encephalomyelitis-like symptoms (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a4), encephalitis (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a14), mass syndrome (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1), and 3 had non-specific symptoms. Median neurological symptoms onset was 81.5 days [7-1095]for patients without chronic GVHD history versus 549 days [11-7300] for patients with chronic GVHD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.001). Patients with early involvement of CNS after allo-HSCT and no chronic GVHD symptoms were more frequently suffering from encephalitis (64% versus 28%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.07), whereas stroke-like episodes and lacunar symptoms were less frequent (9% versus 36%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.13).INTERVENTIONS: 34 patients with CNS-GvHD were treated with immunosuppressive therapy, including corticosteroids for 31 of them. Other treatments were intravenous immunoglobulin, plasmapheresis, cyclophosphamide, calcineurin inhibitors, mycophenolic acid, methotrexate and etoposide.OUTCOMES: 27 patients achieved a response: 10 complete responses, 15 partial responses and 2 transient responses. Of 25 patients with sufficient follow-up, 7 were alive and 18 patients deceased after CNS-GvHD diagnosis.LESSONS: CNS-related GvHD is a rare cause of CNS disorders after allo-HSCT and is associated with a poor prognosis. labels: #Adult#Central Nervous System Diseases#Female#Graft vs Host Disease#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Male#Middle Aged'
b'RATIONALE: Choledochal cysts are a congenital disorder of the common bile duct that can cause progressive biliary obstruction and biliary cirrhosis. They were classified by Todani into five types. Of these, type VI choledochal cysts are rarely reported in the literature.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 22-month-old girl presented with intermittent epigastralgia for approximately 10 days and fever for three days. Fasting and total parenteral nutrition were administered after admission. However, sudden onset of severe epigastric pain occurred. An abdominal sonogram showed turbid ascites and peritonitis was impressed.DIAGNOSES: An emergent exploratory laparotomy was performed, and perforation of the posterior wall of types I and VI choledochal cysts was observed.INTERVENTIONS: Intraoperative cholangiography revealed concomitant types I and VI choledochal cysts with stricture of the distal common bile duct. Definite surgery for resection of the choledochal cysts and gallbladder was performed with Roux-en-Y choledochojejunostomy.OUTCOMES: The patient had no evidence of ascending cholangitis at three years after the operation.LESSONS: Type VI choledochal cysts are rarely reported in the literature. To our knowledge, this is the first reported pediatric case of concomitant types I and VI choledochal cysts complicated with acute pancreatitis and spontaneous perforation. labels: #Anastomosis, Roux-en-Y#Cholangiography#Choledochal Cyst#Choledochostomy#Female#Humans#Infant#Pancreatitis#Spontaneous Perforation'
b"RATIONALE: Hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) is caused by enterovirus. The virus may exist in secretions.PATIENT CONCERNS: Five neonates had symptoms of fever and maculopapular rashes involving face, trunk, breech, arms, and legs, especially scattering on palms and feet. Blood, oropharyngeal fluid, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were collected and detected for further diagnoses with the consent of the infants' parents. Some of them suffered aseptic meningitis.DIAGNOSES: They were diagnosed as HFMD with CSF enterovirus positive.INTERVENTIONS: All of them continued breastfeed. Water bag was used during the pyrogenic stage. Antibiotics were administrated at first and withdrawn as soon as possible.OUTCOMES: None of them developed into brainstem encephalitis or pulmonary edema and they all recovered well.LESSONS: HFMD is more common in neonates than it has been thought. Enterovirus may exist in neonatal CSF and cause CSF cell to increase similar to purulent meningitis. Medical history, physical examination, and CSF enterovirus detection are important in making correct diagnosis. Unlike bacterial infection, HFMD is a self-limited disease. Once HFMD is determined and bacterial infection is ruled out, antibiotics should be avoided. labels: #Breast Feeding#Female#Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male#Meningitis, Aseptic"
b"OBJECTIVE: Healthcare providers in emergency departments should wear respirators for infection protection. However, the wearer's vigorous movements during cardiopulmonary resuscitation may affect the protective performance of the respirator. Herein, we aimed to assess the effects of chest compressions (CCs) on the protective performance of respirators.METHODS: This crossover study evaluated 30 healthcare providers from 1 emergency department who performed CC with real-time feedback. The first, second, and third groups started with a cup-type, fold-type, and valve-type respirator, respectively, after which the respirators were randomized for each group. The fit factors were measured using a quantitative fit testing device before and during the CC in each experiment. The protection rate was defined as the proportion of respirators achieving a fit factor \xe2\x89\xa5100.RESULTS: The fold-type respirator had a significantly greater protection rate at baseline (100.0%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.0%) compared to the cup-type (73.6%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a39.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003) and valve-type respirators (87.5%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a30.3%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). During the CC, the fit factor values significantly decreased for the cup-type (44.9%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a42.8%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and valve-type respirators (59.5%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a41.7%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002), but not for the fold-type respirator (93.2%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a21.7%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.095).CONCLUSIONS: The protective performances of respirators may be influenced by CC. Healthcare providers should identify the respirator that provides the best fit for their intended tasks. labels: #Adult#Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation#Cross-Over Studies#Equipment Design#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Exposure#Prospective Studies#Respiratory Protective Devices#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Lipomas originated from fingers are rare and the dissection is necessary when the lipomas limit the finger movement or cause pain.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 57-year-old male was admitted to our department due to a painless swelling on the volar side of the middle finger of the right hand. The flexion movement of the distal interphalangeal joint was limited.DIAGNOSES: Imaging studies and open biopsy confirmed that it was a finger lipoma.INTERVENTIONS: An excisional biopsy was performed.OUTCOMES: The patient recovered completely after two weeks.LESSONS: Based on this case and literature we reviewed, ultrasound and MRI should be used to diagnose the finger lipoma and excision was the main treatment option. labels: #Fingers#Humans#Lipoma#Male#Middle Aged#Range of Motion, Articular'
b"BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) is considered a systemic disease with a primarily locoregional component. The accumulation of basic researches and clinical studies related to cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells has confirmed their safety and feasibility in treating BC. By searching the PubMed, Embase, CNKI, and Wanfang databases, we conducted a meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen (Exp) compared with chemotherapy (Con) alone regimen for breast carcinoma. Studies were pooled, and the relative risk (RR) and its corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated.METHODS: Eleven relevant articles were included in this meta-analysis. We observed that complete response (CR) (RR = 1.54, 95% CI: 1.09-2.19, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.994, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%), partial response (PR) (RR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.33, 95% CI: 1.11-1.59, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.802, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%) and overall response rate (ORR) (RR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.37, 95% CI: 1.20-1.57, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.619, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%) in BC patients treatment with DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen was improved than that with chemotherapy alone. There was no difference in the incidence of leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, hair loss, nausea/vomiting, hepatic complications, and neurologic complications in BC patient's treatment with DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen and with chemotherapy alone.RESULTS: Compared to chemotherapy alone, DC/CIK plus chemotherapy treatment significantly increased CR, PR, and ORR; however, there was no difference between the safeties.CONCLUSION: DC/CIK plus chemotherapy treatment may be a valuable new option for the treatment of breast carcinoma in women. The present study, therefore, provides valuable information to help physicians make treatment decisions for their patients with BC. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Clinical Trials as Topic#Combined Modality Therapy#Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells#Dendritic Cells#Female#Humans#Immunotherapy, Adoptive"
b'Is to measure the corneal epithelial thickness (CET) in a group of healthy Egyptian population and to investigate its variation with age and sex using spectral domain-anterior segment optical coherence tomography (SD-AS-OCT).This cross-sectional observational study includes 240 eyes of 120 healthy individuals (60 men, 60 women). Each gender was divided into 4 equal groups according to age as follows (18-29 years), (30-44 years), (45-59 years), and (60-80 years). The CET in 17 points over a corneal diameter of 6.0\xe2\x80\x8amm was measured in each subject by SD-AS-OCT. The regional thickness changes were compared in different age groups of each gender separately and the correlations between the CET, age, and gender were analyzed.The CET of the central cornea (2\xe2\x80\x8amm), the paracentral and the midperipheral zones (2-5 and 5-6\xe2\x80\x8amm, respectively) of all males and females groups demonstrates highly significant changes with age (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) with no significant difference between males and females. The measured parameters in the 2 age groups below 45 and above 45 years old revealed statistically significant difference with lower values in the elderly group (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001).The CET became thinner with age in the central, paracentral, and midperipheral zones in both genders and there is no difference between males and females. These findings could be valuable in refractive surgeries especially in age over 45. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cross-Sectional Studies#Egypt#Epithelium, Corneal#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Sex Factors#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult'
b"Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA) has recently been recognized as a significant global health burden. In China, the diagnosis of CPA is still unfamiliar to most doctors. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the clinical manifestations and diagnoses of CPA in China.A multidisciplinary team of doctors retrospectively screened 690 records of patients diagnosed with pulmonary aspergillosis from January 2000 to December 2016 at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing, China. Of these, 69 patients were diagnosed with CPA. The patients' clinical characteristics were then retrieved and analyzed. Demographic, laboratory, and radiological data for these patients were compared by CPA type.Of the 69 patients diagnosed with CPA, 10 patients were diagnosed with chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis (CCPA), 15 patients with semi-invasive aspergillosis (SAIA), 41 patients with simple aspergilloma, and 3 patients with Aspergillus nodule. Further, 53.3% of the SAIA patients were obviously immunocompromised, and 60% of the CCPA patients, 26.7% of the SAIA patients, 7.3% of the simple aspergilloma cases were mildly immunocompromised. Previous underlying lung abnormalities were observed in 20% of CCPA patients, 53.3% of SAIA patients, and 80.5% of simple aspergilloma patients. The most common symptoms in the CPA patients were cough (92.8%), hemoptysis (63.8%), chronic sputum (23.2%), and fever (17.4%). The most common computerized tomography abnormalities were cavities (94.2%), nodule (84.1%), consolidation (4.3%), pleural thickening (2.9%), and infiltration (2.9%). CCPA, SAIA and simple aspergilloma patients were significantly different with respect to their course before diagnosis, constitutional symptoms, fever, hemoptysis, breathlessness, white blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein count, presence of nodule, and presence of a solitary lesion (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Furthermore, SAIA patients had a significantly shorter course before diagnosis and a significantly higher white blood cell count compared with CCPA patients (both P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).In China, underlying systemic immunocompromising conditions and lung diseases with mechanical impediments contribute to CPA. Simple aspergillosis was the most common diagnosis in CPA patients. The imaging characteristics of simple aspergillosis and Aspergillus nodules were quite discriminable, while CCPA, and SAIA were similar in their clinical and radiological features. Distinguishing between CCPA and SAIA depends mainly on the physician's clinical judgment. labels: #Adult#Aged#C-Reactive Protein#China#Cough#Female#Hemoptysis#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Lung Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Retrospective Studies#Young Adult"
b'Several scoring systems are commonly used to evaluate severity in patients with traumatic injuries. However, there is no generally accepted standard scoring system to assess the severity of thoracic trauma, specifically in patients who have sustained severe injuries. The present study aimed to evaluate the validity of the trauma and injury severity score (TRISS) and the thorax trauma severity score (TTSS) as predictors of in-hospital mortality in patients with severe thoracic trauma.We conducted a retrospective, consecutive review of the medical records of patients with severe thoracic trauma who were managed at our institution between January 2005 and December 2015. Inclusion criteria were patients with severe thoracic injury (injury severity score\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a18) who required intensive care therapy and who had no local or systemic infection. We analyzed the association between the trauma severity scores (TTSS and TRISS) and in-hospital mortality in these patients. We also determined the predictive value of the scores using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves.A total of 228 patients with severe thoracic trauma were included in this study. The in-hospital mortality rate was 21.9%. There was a statistically significant association between the TRISS and in-hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but the association between the TTSS and in-hospital mortality was not statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.547). The ROC curve demonstrated adequate discrimination, as demonstrated by an area under the curve value of 0.787 for the TRISS. At a cut-off value of 25.9%, the TRISS had a sensitivity of 83.6% and specificity of 73.5% to predict in-hospital mortality.The present study demonstrated that the TRISS, but not the TTSS, can be used to predict in-hospital mortality in patients with severe thoracic trauma; hence, additional prospective studies are required. labels: #Aged#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#ROC Curve#Retrospective Studies#Thoracic Injuries#Trauma Severity Indices'
b'The clinical significance of measuring central arterial blood pressure has been recently discussed. Although the postprandial reduction in blood pressure is well known, postprandial changes in central blood pressure have not been intensively studied. The present study investigated differences in the reduction of central and peripheral arterial blood pressure after administration of an oral glucose load.An oral glucose tolerance test (75\xe2\x80\x8ag) was performed in 360 participants in our physical checkup program. Brachial and central systolic blood pressures were assessed before and after the glucose load. Central arterial blood pressure was measured noninvasively using an automated device.The mean age was 53.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.2 years. Both brachial (127.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a17.7 to 125.0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.3 mm Hg) and central arterial blood pressures were significantly decreased after an oral glucose load (118.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a17.9 to 112.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.8 mm Hg). The reduction in blood pressure was greater in central (7.3\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a11.5 mm Hg) than in brachial blood pressure measurements (3.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a11.3 mm Hg, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Extreme blood pressure reduction (>20 mm Hg) was recorded more frequently in central (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a43, 12.3%) than brachial blood pressure measurements (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a20, 5.6%).An oral glucose load decreases both central and brachial systolic blood pressure, with more pronounced effects on central blood pressure. Postprandial reductions in blood perfusion of the important organs such as the brain may be underestimated when postprandial BP reduction is assessed using brachial BP measurements. labels: #Adult#Arterial Pressure#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Determination#Brachial Artery#Female#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Male#Middle Aged'
b'Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) is an acute phase protein produced in hepatocytes. Its deficiency affects the lungs and liver. A case-control study was carried out to determine the prevalence of 2 common deficiency alleles, PI*S and PI*Z, for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) in both healthy and chronic obstructive pulmmonary disease (COPD)-affected Saudi populations and to clarify the importance of genetic tests in the screening of people at risk for COPD.One thousand blood samples from healthy individuals and 1000 from COPD-affected Saudi individuals were genotyped for the above-mentioned alleles, using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), with the exclusion of any other nationalities. Data were analyzed by determining the allele and genotype frequencies through gene counting and its confidence intervals. The allele frequencies, derived by the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium method, were analyzed by Pearson Chi-squared tests. The confidence intervals for genotype frequencies were calculated using exploratory software for confidence intervals.Of the 1000 COPD patients included in our study, the prevalence of PI*S and PI*Z was 21.8% and 7.7%, respectively, while within the 1000 normal samples, these alleles occurred in 8.9% of patients for PI*S and 1.6% for PI*Z. The AAT deficiency genotype frequencies (PI*ZZ, PI*SS, and PI*SZ) were 6.5 per 1000 and 87 per 1000 for normal and COPD-affected Saudi individuals.Our results indicated a high prevalence of AATD alleles in the normal Saudi population and an association between AAT deficiency and pulmonary disease development. Additionally, our research confirms the importance of genetic screening to achieve early and accurate diagnosis of AATD. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Alleles#Case-Control Studies#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Respiratory Function Tests#Saudi Arabia#Smoking#alpha 1-Antitrypsin#alpha 1-Antitrypsin Deficiency'
b'RATIONALE: Lymphomatoid granulomatosis is a very rare Epstein-Barr virus-driven lymphoproliferative disease. This disease has high mortality owing to its low incidence in conjunction with nonspecific presentations, which contribute to delays in diagnosis.PATIENT: An 87-year-old male had a week-long history of intermittent fever and general weakness. A chest radiograph showed multifocal patchy consolidations with nodular lesions.DIAGNOSES: Open lung biopsy using video-assisted thoracic surgery resulted in a diagnosis of grade III lymphomatoid granulomatosis. Three days after surgery, Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was identified from the culture of sputum samples collected at admission.INTERVENTION AND OUTCOMES: Antituberculous treatment was commenced first. However, after 34 days of antituberculosis medication, the patient died owing to aggravated lymphomatoid granulomatosis.LESSONS: This case highlights the fact that rare diseases should also be considered in differential diagnosis, particularly with a common presentation such as multiple lung nodules. Furthermore, a diagnosis of pulmonary lymphomatoid granulomatosis was made after open lung biopsy. To our knowledge, this is the first case of lymphomatoid granulomatosis coexisting with active tuberculosis in the Republic of Korea, where tuberculosis is endemic. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis#Male#Republic of Korea#Tuberculosis'
b'RATIONALE: Heptadactylia is a rare congenital disorder from the polydactyly family. Polydactyly is generally classified into 3 major groups: preaxial (medial ray), postaxial (lateral ray), and central polydactyly. Most common cases are related to preaxial or postaxial polydactyly. The rarity of central polydactyly can be explained in 3 ways. First, central polydactyly with duplication appearing on metatarsal is pretty uncommon. Second, the duplication appears isolated on the foot. Polydactyly is mostly associated with other physical defects or others duplications. Last, the duplication of the digital rays does not appear once but twice concerning all the digital rays and makes 7 functional toes appear. We describe this malformation with supporting iconography and radiography as well as its surgical management and functional results.PATIENT CONCERNS: We analyzed an original case of isolated heptadactylia on the foot of a 14-month-old girl. The supernumerary toes made it impossible for the child to wear standard shoes and her parents were worried about this problem.DIAGNOSES: Clinical foot examination and radiographs revealed the presence of 7 complete rays. Every toe was composed of phalanx and metatarsal ray. There was no other congenital deformity.INTERVENTIONS: Decision was made to resect the second and third rays (the two most misaligned toes in our consideration). The first stage of surgery was the ray resection and the second stage was the reconstruction of the intermetatarsal ligament to achieve a good functional and cosmetic results.OUTCOMES: After wound healing, the child was able to walk alone while wearing normal shoes.LESSONS: We demonstrated that treatment of foot polydactyly requires careful preoperative assessment, including radiographs and photography. A good clinical evaluation of the medial polydactyly improves type-specific recognition which may enhance the accuracy of surgical treatment. Polydactyly is frequently associated with other malformations. We recommend performing a general clinical examination to exclude concomitant malformations. We recommend surgical treatment around the onset of walking. labels: #Female#Humans#Infant#Polydactyly#Toes'
b"RATIONALE: Trans-sacral epiduroscopic laser decompression (SELD) is reported to have strong positive short-term effects in controlling lower back pain (LBP) or radicular leg pain following herniated lumbar disc (HLD). However, little is known about the possible complications following SELD.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 36-year-old man received SELD with YAG laser for controlling LBP and radicular pain due to HLD on L5-S1. However, after SELD, voiding and defecation difficulties and sensory deficits on the S3-5 dermatome were presented.DIAGNOSES: An areflexic neurogenic bladder was demonstrated by a urodynamic study four days after onset of sacral nerve root injury symptoms. In the electromyogram study, latency of electrically induced bulbocavernosus reflex (BCR) was delayed on both sides at four days after symptom onset. Based on the patient's symptoms and the results of the clinical evaluation, we diagnosed the patient as having an injury in the sacral nerve roots.INTERVENTIONS: The patient was observed without any specific medication.OUTCOMES: Three months after symptom onset, the patient's voiding and defecation difficulties were nearly completely recovered.LESSONS: In this study, we described a patient who showed neurogenic bladder and bowel and sensory deficits in the S3 to S5 dermatome due to sacral nerve root injury after SELD. During SELD, clinicians should be mindful of the possibility of injury to sacral nerve roots. labels: #Adult#Decompression, Surgical#Humans#Lasers, Solid-State#Male#Sacrum#Spinal Nerve Roots"
b'RATIONALE: Thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA) and red thrombus are suggested as a high-risk of embolic complications during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Intracoronary aspiration procedures occasionally result in either an insufficient thrombus removal or provide no significant effects on TCFA.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 76-year-old male underwent coronary angiography for chest pain.DIAGNOSES: Coronary angiography revealed a tight stenosis at the right coronary artery which resulted in treatment by PCI. Optical frequency domain imaging (OFDI) delineated a red thrombus with TCFA.INTERVENTIONS: To avoid embolic complications, excimer laser coronary angioplasty (ELCA) was applied with intracoronary aspiration before drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation.OUTCOMES: The red thrombus was vaporized by ELCA in an energy-intensity dependent manner and subsequently removed by intracoronary aspiration. The fibrous cap of TCFA was dissected with the material beneath the cap ablated by ELCA and extensively removed by intracoronary aspiration. DES implantation and postdilatation achieved an optimal result without flow compromise. This combined synergistic strategy of ELCA-aspiration-DES yielded a successful outcome.LESSONS: A synergistic embolus removal strategy combining ELCA, aspiration and DES implantation is a promising option for the treatment of high-risk plaque with potential embolic complications. labels: #Aged#Angioplasty, Laser#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Drug-Eluting Stents#Humans#Male#Percutaneous Coronary Intervention#Thrombosis'
b'BACKGROUND: T-helper 22 (Th22) cells are involved in host immunity against pathogen invasion and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. However, the roles of Th22 cells in acute gouty arthritis remain unclear.METHODS: A case-control study was employed to illustrate the clinical significance of Th22 cells in acute gouty arthritis. In this study, 27 patients with acute gouty arthritis, 22 patients with intercritical gout (IG), and 20 healthy controls were recruited, and peripheral blood cells and plasma were collected for the detection of Th22, Th17, and Th1 cells, and plasma interleukin (IL)-22.RESULTS: The relative and absolute numbers of Th22 and Th17 cells were significantly higher in patients with acute gouty arthritis than in patients with IG and healthy controls. Plasma IL-22 levels were consistently higher in patients with acute gouty arthritis than in patients with IG and healthy controls (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Th22 cell numbers were positively correlated with Th1 (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.648, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and Th17 (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.379, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) cell numbers in patients with gout. Moreover, Th22 cell numbers and plasma IL-22 levels were positively correlated with C-reactive protein levels (Th22: r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.444, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05; IL-22: r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.282, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that peripheral blood levels of Th22 cells increase during acute gouty arthritis suggesting a role for these cells in the pathophysiology of the disease. labels: #Adult#Arthritis, Gouty#Case-Control Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#Gout#Humans#Interleukins#Male#Middle Aged#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#Th1 Cells#Th17 Cells'
b'Obesity has become a serious social problem in industrialized countries in recent years. Clinically, although the evaluation of dietary behavior abnormalities is as important as any method of risk assessment for obesity, almost all the existing scales with many items may have numerous practical clinical difficulties. In this study, we aimed to prepare a short questionnaire to assess the dietary behavior abnormalities related to obesity. A total of 1032 individuals aged 20 to 59 years participated in the present study. Using item response theory (IRT), we selected the items for a short version from among 30 items of Sakata Eating Behavior Scale (EBS), which is widely used in Japan. As a result of the IRT-based analysis on the original 30-item version, 7 items were adopted as the short version. The correlation between the total score of the original EBS and the EBS short form was extremely high (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.93, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). In examining the criterion validity, for all participants (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1032), male (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a516), and female (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a516), the correlation coefficients between the total score of the EBS short form and body mass index (BMI) were r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.26, r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.28, and r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.28, respectively. The results of the receiver operating characteristic analysis was performed with obesity BMI\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a25\xe2\x80\x8akg/m as a dependent variable, the value of the area under the curve in the ROC was significantly higher in the 7-item version than in the total score of the original items (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0005). In conclusion, the 7-item EBS short form was created. Furthermore, it was found that the EBS short form is a reliable and valid measure that can be used as an indicator of obesity in both clinical and research settings. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Diet#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Japan#Male#Middle Aged#Obesity#Quality of Life#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'The majority of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) have electrocardiographic abnormalities, but the clinical significance of conduction disturbances remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate age-dependent cardiac conduction disturbances by electrocardiogram (ECG) to identify risks of complete atrioventricular (AV) block in this patient population.In total, 47 patients with DMD (age, \xe2\x89\xa520\xe2\x80\x8ays) who recorded ECGs at our hospital from July 2015 to June 2016 were included in this study. The PR interval and QRS duration in their previous ECGs were analyzed retrospectively. Associations between ECG findings and left ventricular (LV) systolic function obtained from the latest echocardiography were examined.The mean age of patients was 27.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a6.0 years, and the mean observation period was 9.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.7 years. The PR interval gradually increased with age, but no ECGs showed an abnormally prolonged PR interval. On the other hand, the QRS duration tended to increase progressively with age, and some patients had an abnormally prolonged QRS duration. The QRS duration was not correlated with LV systolic function (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.867). One patient who developed a complete AV block had a drastically prolonged QRS duration before the onset of the disorder.The QRS duration tended to increase progressively with age, irrespective of LV systolic function in patients with DMD. Attention should be paid to the QRS duration as an indicator of risk for complete AV block in older patients. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Cardiovascular Agents#Disease Progression#Echocardiography#Electrocardiography#Humans#Male#Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Ventricular Function, Left#Young Adult'
b'The present study compared the efficacy of gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-EOB-DTPA)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) in the estimation of hepatic fibrosis stages with histopathologic correlation.This retrospective study included 104 patients (87 men and 17 women; mean age, 60.6 \xc2\xb1 10.6 years) with chronic liver disease who underwent both Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI and MRE. The relative enhancement (RE) ratio of the liver parenchyma and the contrast enhancement index (CEI) were calculated as (SIpostliver\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aSIpreliver)/SIpreliver and SIpost/SIpre, respectively, where SIpost and SIpre were the liver-to-muscle signal intensity ratios on the hepatobiliary phase images and noncontrast-enhanced images, respectively. The liver stiffness values were measured using MRE stiffness maps. The diagnostic performance of MRE, RE ratios, and CEI values for hepatic fibrosis staging were compared.The distribution of fibrosis stages was as follows: F0, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3 (2.9%); F1, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12 (11.5%); F2, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17 (16.3%); F3, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a26 (25.0%); and F4, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a46 (44.2%). MRE, RE ratios, and CEI values correlated significantly with hepatic fibrosis (rs\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.79, -.35, -.25, respectively, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). MRE showed a significantly higher diagnostic performance than did RE ratios and CEI values for each fibrosis stage, except while distinguishing the F1 fibrosis stage (CEI, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.15). A cutoff value of RE ratio\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.89 can be used to identify patients with significant hepatic fibrosis, with positive predictive value, sensitivity, specificity, and negative predictive value of 93.2%, 61.8%, 73.3%, and 24.4%, respectively.Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI can potentially predict significant hepatic fibrosis. However, the diagnostic performance of MRE for hepatic fibrosis staging was superior to that of Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI. labels: #Aged#Contrast Media#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Gadolinium DTPA#Humans#Liver#Liver Cirrhosis#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: Rapid increases in desflurane concentration can transiently increase the heart rate (HR). Esmolol possesses a high \xce\xb21-adrenoceptor selectivity and a short duration of action. This preliminary study aimed at investigating the effects of esmolol on the HR and autonomic modulation during a desflurane-induced HR increase.METHODS: American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status I female subjects, aged 20 to 50 years, who were undergoing minor breast surgery were randomly assigned to 2 groups. Rapid increases in desflurane concentration were commenced after induction of anesthesia. Each subject received either i.v. saline (control group) or esmolol 0.5\xe2\x80\x8amg/kg (esmolol group) before desflurane inhalation. Using time-frequency spectral analysis of HR variability, the HR indices were studied at baseline, postinduction, posttreatment, as well as at minimal alveolar concentrations of desflurane reaching 1.0, 1.3, and 1.5. The low frequency (LF) power is influenced by both the sympathetic and parasympathetic activity, whereas the high frequency (HF) power reflects the parasympathetic activity. The LF/HF ratio is thought to reflect either sympathovagal balance or sympathetic modulation.RESULTS: Electrocardiograms for data analysis were obtained from 8 subjects in each group. Rapid increases in desflurane concentration after induction caused a HR increase. Both the corresponding LF and HF powers were low and the LF/HF ratio remained unchanged. This indicates that the desflurane-induced HR increase may be attributed to parasympathetic inhibition and may be independent of sympathetic activation. Esmolol pretreatment effectively attenuated desflurane-induced HR increase. Moreover, subjects receiving esmolol pretreatment had increased LF and HF powers, but did not have changes in their LF/HF ratios, as compared to those without esmolol.CONCLUSION: Esmolol pretreatment attenuates HR increase and parasympathetic inhibition during rapid increases in desflurane concentration. labels: #Adult#Anesthetics, Inhalation#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Isoflurane#Middle Aged#Parasympathetic Nervous System#Propanolamines#Prospective Studies#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: To assess the long-term prognostic value of F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) undergoing empiric radioiodine (RAI) therapy due to raising values of thyroglobulin (Tg).METHODS: Forty-nine patients with histological diagnosis of DTC (31 with papillary and 18 with follicular carcinoma) follow-up for a mean period of 7.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5 years after empiric RAI therapy were retrospectively analyzed.RESULTS: FDG-PET/CT was negative in 15 (30.6%) patients and positive in 34 (69.4%), whereas postradioiodine therapy whole body scan (t-WBS) was negative in 16 (32.7%) and positive in 33 (67.3%) patients. FDG-PET/CT and t-WBS were in agreement in 32 patients (7 both negative and 25 both positive); on the contrary, in 17 patients there was disagreement between FDG-PET/CT and t-WBS (P\xe2\x80\x8a=ns). At short-term follow-up, Tg normalized in 19 (38.8%) patients and was unchanged or increased in 30 (61.2%). Of the 15 patients with negative FDG-PET/CT, 11 (73.3%) showed Tg normalization, whereas of the 34 patients with positive FDG-PET/CT, only 8 (23.5%) had Tg normalization (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=8.9, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.005). At multivariate analysis, FDG-PET/CT and Tg normalization at short-term follow-up were independent predictors of disease-free survival (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=26.3, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001), while Tg normalization was the only variable associated with overall survival \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=7.2, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).CONCLUSION: FDG-PET/CT in association with Tg normalization at short-term follow-up may be useful for long-term prognostic stratification in DTC patients. labels: #Adult#Aged#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Humans#Iodine Radioisotopes#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Prognosis#Radiopharmaceuticals#Retrospective Studies#Thyroglobulin#Thyroid Neoplasms'
b'This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) implantation in treating neovascular glaucoma (NVG) and to analyze the factors influencing the surgical success rate.This is a retrospective review of 40 eyes of 40 NVG patients who underwent AGV implantation at Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, China, between January 2014 and December 2016. Pre- and postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity, surgical success rate, medications, and complications were observed. Surgical success criteria were defined as IOP \xe2\x89\xa421 and>6 mm Hg with or without additional medications. Kaplan-Meier survival curves and Multivariate cox regression analysis were used to examine success rates and risk factors for surgical outcomes.The mean follow-up period was 8.88\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.12 months (range: 3-17). IOP declined at each visit postoperatively and it was statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). An average of 3.55\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.86 drugs was applied preoperatively, while an average of 0.64\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.90 drugs was used postoperatively, with the difference being of statistical significance (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The complete surgical success rate of 3, 6, and 12 months after the operation was 85%, 75%, and 65%, respectively. Meanwhile, the qualified success rate of 3, 6, and 12 months after the operation was 85%, 80%, and 77.5%, respectively. The multivariate cox regression analysis showed that age (hazard ratio: 3.717, 7.246; 95% confidence interval: 1.149-12.048, 1.349-38.461; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.028, .021) was influencing factors for complete success rate and qualified success rate among all NVG patients. Gender, previous operation history, primary disease, and preoperative IOP were found to be not significant.AGV implantation is an effective and safe surgical method to treat NVG. Age is an important factor influencing the surgical success rate. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#China#Female#Glaucoma Drainage Implants#Glaucoma, Neovascular#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Sex Factors#Visual Acuity'
b'Treating thoracic infective spondylodiscitis with anterior surgical approaches carry a relatively high risk of perioperative and postoperative complications. Posterior approaches have been reported to result in lower complication rates than anterior procedures, but more evidence is needed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of 1-stage posterior approaches for treating infectious thoracic spondylodiscitis.Preoperative and postoperative clinical data, of 18 patients who underwent 2 types of 1-stage posterior procedures, costotransversectomy and transforaminal thoracic interbody debridement and fusion and 7 patients who underwent anterior debridement and reconstruction with posterior instrumentation, were retrospectively assessed.The clinical outcomes of patients treated with 1-stage posterior approaches were generally good, with good infection control, back pain relief, kyphotic angle correction, and either partial or solid union for fusion status. Furthermore, they achieved shorter surgical time, fewer postoperative complications, and shorter hospital stay than the patients underwent anterior debridement with posterior instrumentation.The results suggested that treating thoracic spondylodiscitis with a single-stage posterior approach might prevent postoperative complications and avoid respiratory problems associated with anterior approaches. Single-stage posterior approaches would be recommended for thoracic spine infection, especially for patients with medical comorbidities. labels: #Central Nervous System Infections#Debridement#Discitis#Female#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Spinal Fusion#Thoracic Surgical Procedures#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b"Energy expenditure and ambient temperature (Ta) are intrinsically linked through changes in an animal's metabolic rate. While the nature of this relationship is stable, the breadth of change in thermoregulatory cost varies with body size and physiological acclimatization to season. To explore seasonal metabolic changes of small mammals, we studied a population of Eurasian red squirrels (Sciurus vulgaris) in a seminatural environment with a year-round supply of natural and supplemented food. In each season we measured the metabolic rate of wild-caught red squirrels, using open-flow respirometry, and hypothesized that individuals would make adjustments to contend with seasonal weather conditions. In comparison to summer animals, we predicted that winter squirrels would show (1) an increase in metabolic rate within the thermoneutral zone, (2) a decrease in the lower critical temperature of the thermoneutral zone, (3) a shallower slope of resting metabolic rate with decreasing Ta, and (4) lower thermal conductance. Surprisingly, we observed only minor changes in resting metabolic rate, and energetic modeling suggested that the scope of change was unlikely to be of ecological consequence. Hair area density was higher in winter than in summer, corresponding to a slightly elevated thermal conductance in summer, while body mass was reasonably constant year-round. We conclude that the scope of physiological seasonal adaptation is minimal when food is abundant and that squirrels instead rely on adjustments in activity to reduce exposure to low Ta. We suggest that this may explain the squirrel's success in a wide range of habitats, including urban areas, which require a rapid and flexible response to environmental changes and may indicate the capacity of other small mammal species to cope with environmental disturbance. labels: #Animals#Ecosystem#Energy Metabolism#Female#Food#Male#Sciuridae#Seasons"
b'Cyclic nigerosyl nigerose (CNN) is a cyclic tetrasaccharide that exhibits properties distinct from other conventional cyclodextrins. Herein, we demonstrate that treatment of B16 melanoma with CNN results in a dose-dependent decrease in melanin synthesis, even under conditions that stimulate melanin synthesis, without significant cytotoxity. The effects of CNN were prolonged for more than 27 days, and were gradually reversed following removal of CNN. Undigested CNN was found to accumulate within B16 cells at relatively high levels. Further, CNN showed a weak but significant direct inhibitory effect on the enzymatic activity of tyrosinase, suggesting one possible mechanism of hypopigmentation. While a slight reduction in tyrosinase expression was observed, tyrosinase expression was maintained at significant levels, processed into a mature form, and transported to late-stage melanosomes. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated that CNN treatment induced drastic morphological changes of Pmel17-positive and LAMP-1-positive organelles within B16 cells, suggesting that CNN is a potent organelle modulator. Colocalization of both tyrosinase-positive and LAMP-1-positive regions in CNN-treated cells indicated possible degradation of tyrosinase in LAMP-1-positive organelles; however, that possibility was ruled out by subsequent inhibition experiments. Taken together, this study opens a new paradigm of functional oligosaccharides, and offers CNN as a novel hypopigmenting molecule and organelle modulator. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Cell Line, Tumor#Cyclodextrins#Glucans#Glucosamine#Hypopigmentation#Immunohistochemistry#Lysosomes#Melanins#Melanoma, Experimental#Melanosomes#Mice#Monophenol Monooxygenase#Osmotic Pressure#Stress, Physiological'
b'The zooarchaeological research presented here investigates Neolithic and Chalcolithic (ca. 6500-5000 cal. BC) animal exploitation strategies at U\xc4\x9furlu H\xc3\xb6y\xc3\xbck on the Turkish island of G\xc3\xb6k\xc3\xa7eada in the northeastern Aegean Sea. Toward this end, we first discuss the results of our analysis of the zooarchaeological assemblages from U\xc4\x9furlu H\xc3\xb6y\xc3\xbck and then consider the data within a wider regional explanatory framework using a diachronic approach, comparing them with those from western and northwestern Anatolian sites. The first settlers of G\xc3\xb6k\xc3\xa7eada were farmers who introduced domestic sheep, goats, cattle and pigs to the island as early as 6500 years BC. Our results align well with recently published zooarchaeological data on the westward spread of domestic animals across Turkey and the Neolithization of southeast Europe. Using an island site as a case study, we independently confirm that the dispersal of early farming was a polynucleated and multidirectional phenomenon that did not sweep across the land, replace everything on its way, and deliver the same "Neolithic package" everywhere. Instead, this complex process generated a diversity of human-animal interactions. Thus, studying the dispersal of early farmers from southwest Asia into southeast Europe via Anatolia requires a rigorous methodological approach to develop a fine-resolution picture of the variability seen in human adaptations and dispersals within complex and rapidly changing environmental and cultural settings. For this, the whole spectrum of human-animal interactions must be fully documented for each sub-region of southwest Asia and the circum-Mediterranean. labels: #Animals#Animals, Domestic#Archaeology#Body Size#Cattle#Fossils#Geography#Goats#Islands#Phylogeny#Sheep#Species Specificity#Swine#Turkey'
b'RNA binding protein polypyrimidine tract binding protein 2 (Ptbp2) as a key alternative splicing regulator for male germ cell development is well established. However, its expression levels and role in cryptorchidism testes tissues has not been explored. Additionally, the molecular mechanism of heat stress impacts the correct proliferation and differentiation of germ cells is unclear. To investigate whether changes in Ptbp2 expression are correlated with heat stress-induced germ cell injury in testicular tissue, we used a murine model of intraperitoneal cryptorchidism with surgical operation. Here we present compelling evidence that germ cells are severely damaged in mice with unilateral cryptorchidism, with non-obstructive azoospermia. And the Ptbp2 and Pgk2 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in parallel, leading us to conclude that the negative correlation between Ptbp2 levels and germ cell injury in unilateral cryptorchidism murine model. We hypothesize that Ptbp2 is susceptible to heat stress and its disruption has resulted in stability decline of germ cell transcripts Pgk2 mRNA, which consequently lead to germ cell injury in cryptorchidism testes. Thus, we confirm that Ptbp2 is an essential factor in heat stress-induced sperm cell injury and non-obstructive azoospermia. labels: #Animals#Cell Count#Cryptorchidism#Disease Models, Animal#Epididymis#Immunohistochemistry#Isoenzymes#Male#Mice, Inbred ICR#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Organ Size#Phosphoglycerate Kinase#Polypyrimidine Tract-Binding Protein#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Spermatozoa#Testis'
b'BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive and fatal disease. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) alters function and fate of various proteins via deacetylation of lysine residues, and is implicated in TGF-\xce\xb21-induced EMT (epithelial-mesenchymal transition). However, the role of HDAC6 in pulmonary fibrosis is unknown.METHODS: HDAC6 expression in IPF and control lungs was assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunoblots. Lung fibroblasts were treated with TGF-\xce\xb21 \xc2\xb1 HDAC6 inhibitors (Tubacin, Tubastatin, ACY1215, or MC1568), and fibrotic markers such as type I collagen were assessed using qRT-PCR and immunoblots. Mice were treated with bleomycin (oropharyngeal aspiration; single dose) \xc2\xb1 Tubastatin (intraperitoneally injection; daily for 21 days), and lung collagen expression was gauged using immunoblots and trichrome staining. In a separate experiment, HDAC6 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice were administered bleomycin, and lungs were evaluated in the same manner.RESULTS: HDAC6 expression was deregulated in IPF lungs. Among the HDAC6 inhibitors tested, only Tubastatin significantly repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced expression of type-1 collagen in lung fibroblasts, and this finding was coupled with decreased Akt phosphorylation and increased Akt-PHLPP (PH domain and Leucine rich repeat Protein Phosphatase) association. Tubastatin repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced S6K phosphorylation, HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression, and VEGF expression. Tubastatin also repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced inhibition of LC3B-II (a marker of autophagosome formation). In bleomycin-treated mouse lungs, HDAC6 expression was increased, and Tubastatin repressed type-1 collagen expression. However, in HDAC6 KO mice, bleomycin-induced type-1 collagen expression was not repressed compared to WT mice. Knockdown of HDAC6, as well as HDAC10, another potential Tubastatin target, did not inhibit TGF-\xce\xb21-induced collagen expression in lung fibroblasts.CONCLUSIONS: HDAC6 expression is altered during lung fibrogenesis. Tubastatin represses TGF-\xce\xb21-induced collagen expression, by diminishing Akt phosphorylation and regulating downstream targets such as HIF-1\xce\xb1-VEGF axis and autophagy. Tubastatin-treated WT mice are protected against bleomycin-induced fibrosis, but HDAC6 KO mice are not. Our data suggest that Tubastatin ameliorates pulmonary fibrosis, by targeting the TGF\xce\xb2-PI3K-Akt pathway, likely via an HDAC6-independent mechanism. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Autophagosomes#Autophagy#Bleomycin#Collagen Type I#Female#Fibroblasts#Histone Deacetylase 6#Histone Deacetylases#Humans#Hydroxamic Acids#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis#Indoles#Lung#Male#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Mice, Knockout#Middle Aged#Multiprotein Complexes#Nuclear Proteins#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Phosphoprotein Phosphatases#Phosphorylation#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#RNA, Messenger#Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases#Signal Transduction#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transforming Growth Factor beta#Tubulin#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'Camera trapping has become an increasingly widespread tool for wildlife ecologists, with large numbers of studies relying on photo capture rates or presence/absence information. It is increasingly clear that camera placement can directly impact this kind of data, yet these biases are poorly understood. We used a paired camera design to investigate the effect of small-scale habitat features on species richness estimates, and capture rate and detection probability of several mammal species in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, USA. Cameras were deployed at either log features or on game trails with a paired camera at a nearby random location. Overall capture rates were significantly higher at trail and log cameras compared to their paired random cameras, and some species showed capture rates as much as 9.7 times greater at feature-based cameras. We recorded more species at both log (17) and trail features (15) than at their paired control cameras (13 and 12 species, respectively), yet richness estimates were indistinguishable after 659 and 385 camera nights of survey effort, respectively. We detected significant increases (ranging from 11-33%) in detection probability for five species resulting from the presence of game trails. For six species detection probability was also influenced by the presence of a log feature. This bias was most pronounced for the three rodents investigated, where in all cases detection probability was substantially higher (24.9-38.2%) at log cameras. Our results indicate that small-scale factors, including the presence of game trails and other features, can have significant impacts on species detection when camera traps are employed. Significant biases may result if the presence and quality of these features are not documented and either incorporated into analytical procedures, or controlled for in study design. labels: #Animals#Animals, Wild#Bias#Biodiversity#Ecosystem#Models, Theoretical#Photography#Probability#Species Specificity'
b"BACKGROUND: Climate change affects human health. The respective consequences are predicted to increase in the future. Patients with chronic lung disease are particularly vulnerable to the involved environmental alterations. However, their subjective perception and reactions to these alterations remain unknown.METHODS: In this pilot study, we surveyed 172 adult patients who underwent pulmonary rehabilitation and 832 adult tourists without lung disease in the alpine region about their perception of being affected by climate change and their potential reaction to specific consequences. The patients' survey also contained the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) to rate the severity of symptoms.RESULTS: Most of the patients stated asthma (73.8%), COPD (9.3%) or both (11.0%) as underlying disease while 5.8% suffered from other chronic lung diseases. Patients and tourists feel equally affected by current climate change in general, while allergic subjects in both groups feel significantly more affected (p = 0.04). The severity of symptoms assessed by CAT correlates with the degree of feeling affected (p<0.01). The main disturbing consequences for patients are decreased air quality, increasing numbers of ticks and mosquitos and a rising risk for allergy and extreme weather events such as thunderstroms, while tourists are less disturbed by these factors. Increasing number of heat-days is of little concern to both groups.CONCLUSION: Overall patients are more sensitive to health-related consequences of climate change. Yet, the hazard of heat-days seems underestimated and awareness should be raised. labels: #Adult#Chronic Disease#Climate Change#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Perception#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Rhinitis, Allergic#Statistics, Nonparametric"
b'BACKGROUND: Finger opposition movements are the basis of many daily living activities and are essential in general for manipulating objects; an engineered glove quantitatively assessing motor performance during sequences of finger opposition movements has been shown to be useful to provide reliable measures of finger motor impairment, even subtle, in subjects affected by neurological diseases. However, the obtained behavioral parameters lack published reference values.OBJECTIVE: To determine mean values for different motor behavioral parameters describing the strategy adopted by healthy people in performing repeated sequences of finger opposition movements, examining associations with gender and age.METHODS: Normative values for finger motor performance parameters were obtained on a sample of 255 healthy volunteers executing sequences of finger-to-thumb opposition movements, stratified by gender and over a wide range of ages. Touch duration, inter-tapping interval, movement rate, correct sequences (%), movements in advance compared with a metronome (%) and inter-hand interval were assessed.RESULTS: Increasing age resulted in decreased movement speed, advance movements with respect to a cue, correctness of sequences, and bimanual coordination. No significant performance differences were found between male and female subjects except for the duration of the finger touch, the interval between two successive touches and their ratio.CONCLUSIONS: We report age- and gender-specific normal mean values and ranges for different parameters objectively describing the performance of finger opposition movement sequences, which may serve as useful references for clinicians to identify possible deficits in subjects affected by diseases altering fine hand motor skills. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Demography#Female#Fingers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Activity#Touch#Young Adult'
b'The effects of growth phase on the lipid content and surface properties of oleaginous microalgae Botryococcus sp. FACGB-762, Chlorella sp. XJ-445 and Desmodesmus bijugatus XJ-231 were investigated in this study. The results showed that throughout the growth phases, the lipid content of microalgae increased. The surface properties like particle size, the degree of hydrophobicity, and the total concentration of functional groups increased while net surface zeta potential decreased. The results suggested that the growth stage had significant influence not only on the lipid content but also on the surface characteristics. Moreover, the lipid content was significantly positively related to the concentration of hydroxyl functional groups in spite of algal strains or growth phases. These results provided a basis for further studies on the refinery process using oleaginous microalgae for biofuel production. labels: #Biomass#Chlorella#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Lipids#Microalgae#Particle Size#Potentiometry#Sample Size#Static Electricity#Surface Properties'
b'Postoperative epidural analgesia often needs rate readjustment using top-ups. Patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) is said to reduce the requirement of epidural top-ups when compared to continuous epidural analgesia (CEA). We compared CEA and PCEA in major thoracic and abdominal surgery, in a cohort study. The primary endpoint was the required number of epidural top-ups. Secondary endpoints were pain scores, side effects and workload differences. We analysed 199 patients with CEA and 187 with PCEA. Both groups had similar pain scores. The total number of top-ups was 75 in 57 patients (CEA) versus 20 top-ups in 18 patients (PCEA). (p = 0.0001) Sedation tended to occur more frequently in patients with CEA versus PCEA, 5.5% vs 1.6% (p = 0.05). Implementation of PCEA led to a decreased number of top-ups, fewer side-effects and decreased use of the postoperative care unit. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Epidural#Analgesia, Patient-Controlled#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthetics, Local#Bupivacaine#Female#Fentanyl#Humans#Male#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Postoperative Care#Postoperative Period#Thoracic Surgical Procedures'
b'INTRODUCTION: The potential impact of targeting different components of an adverse lipid profile in populations with multiple cardiovascular risk factors is not completely clear. This study aims to assess the association between different components of the standard lipid profile with all-cause mortality and hospitalization due to cardiovascular events in a high-risk population.METHODS: This prospective registry included high risk adults over 30 years old free of cardiovascular disease (2008-2012). Diagnosis of hypertension, dyslipidemia or diabetes mellitus was inclusion criterion. Lipid biomarkers were evaluated. Primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and hospital admission due to coronary heart disease or stroke. We estimated adjusted rate ratios (aRR), absolute risk differences and population attributable risk associated with adverse lipid profiles.RESULTS: 51,462 subjects were included with a mean age of 62.6 years (47.6% men). During an average follow-up of 3.2 years, 919 deaths, 1666 hospitalizations for coronary heart disease and 1510 hospitalizations for stroke were recorded. The parameters that showed an increased rate for total mortality, coronary heart disease and stroke hospitalization were, respectively, low HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.25, 1.29 and 1.23; high Total/HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.22, 1.38 and 1.25; and high Triglycerides/HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.21, 1.30, 1.09. The parameters that showed highest population attributable risk (%) were, respectively, low HDL-Cholesterol: 7.70, 11.42, 8.40; high Total/HDL-Cholesterol: 6.55, 12.47, 8.73; and high Triglycerides/HDL-Cholesterol: 8.94, 15.09, 6.92.CONCLUSIONS: In a population with cardiovascular risk factors, HDL-cholesterol, Total/HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides/HDL-cholesterol ratios were associated with a higher population attributable risk for cardiovascular disease compared to other common biomarkers. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cholesterol, HDL#Cholesterol, LDL#Coronary Disease#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Hypertension#Lipids#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Stroke#Triglycerides'
b'Odour-baited technologies are increasingly considered for effective monitoring of mosquito populations and for the evaluation of vector control interventions. The BG-Malaria trap (BGM), which is an upside-down variant of the widely used BG-Sentinel trap (BGS), has been demonstrated to be effective to sample the Brazilian malaria vector, Anopheles darlingi. We evaluated the BGM as an improved method for sampling the African malaria vectors, Anopheles arabiensis. Experiments were conducted inside a large semi-field cage to compare trapping efficiencies of BGM and BGS traps, both baited with the synthetic attractant, Ifakara blend, supplemented with CO2. We then compared BGMs baited with either of four synthetic mosquito lures, Ifakara blend, Mbita blend, BG-lure or CO2, and an unbaited BGM. Lastly, we compared BGMs baited with the Ifakara blend dispensed via either nylon strips, BG cartridges (attractant-infused microcapsules encased in cylindrical plastic cartridge) or BG sachets (attractant-infused microcapsules encased in plastic sachets). All tests were conducted between 6P.M. and 7A.M., with 200-600 laboratory-reared An. arabiensis released nightly in the test chamber. The median number of An. arabiensis caught by the BGM per night was 83, IQR:(73.5-97.75), demonstrating clear superiority over BGS (median catch = 32.5 (25.25-37.5)). Compared to unbaited controls, BGMs baited with Mbita blend caught most mosquitoes (45 (29.5-70.25)), followed by BGMs baited with CO2 (42.5 (27.5-64)), Ifakara blend (31 (9.25-41.25)) and BG lure (16 (4-22)). BGM caught 51 (29.5-72.25) mosquitoes/night, when the attractants were dispensed using BG-Cartridges, compared to BG-Sachet (29.5 (24.75-40.5)), and nylon strips (27 (19.25-38.25)), in all cases being significantly superior to unbaited controls (p<000.1). The findings demonstrate potential of the BGM as a sampling tool for African malaria vectors over the standard BGS trap. Its efficacy can be optimized by selecting appropriate odour baits and odour-dispensing systems. labels: #Animals#Anopheles#Insect Vectors#Malaria#Mosquito Control#Odorants'
b'The inflammatory and metabolic derangements of obesity in pregnant women generate an adverse intrauterine environment, increase pregnancy complications and adverse fetal outcomes and program the fetus for obesity and metabolic syndrome in later life. We hypothesized that epigenetic modifications in placenta including altered DNA methylation/hydroxymethylation may mediate these effects. Term placental villous tissue was collected following cesarean section from lean (prepregnancy BMI<25) or obese (BMI>30) women. Genomic DNA was isolated, methylated and hydroxymethylated DNA immunoprecipitated and hybridized to the NimbleGen 2.1M human DNA methylation array. Intermediate metabolites in placental tissues were measured by HPLC-ESI-MS, ascorbate levels by reverse phase HPLC and gene expression by RT-PCR. Differentially methylated and hydroxymethylated regions occurred across the genome, with a 21% increase in methylated but a 31% decrease in hydroxymethylated regions in obese vs lean groups. Whereas increased methylation and decreased methylation was evident around transcription start sites of multiple genes in the GH/CSH and PSG gene clusters on chromosomes 17 and 19 in other areas there was no relationship. Increased methylation was associated with decreased expression only for some genes in these clusters. Biological pathway analysis revealed the 262 genes which showed reciprocal differential methylation/ hydroxymethylation were enriched for pregnancy, immune response and cell adhesion-linked processes. We found a negative relationship for maternal BMI but a positive relationship for ascorbate with \xce\xb1-ketoglutarate a metabolite that regulates ten eleven translocase (TET) which mediates DNA methylation. We provide evidence for the obese maternal metabolic milieu being linked to an altered DNA methylome that may affect placental gene expression in relation to adverse outcomes. labels: #5-Methylcytosine#Adiposity#Body Mass Index#DNA Methylation#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Genome, Human#Humans#Metabolome#Multigene Family#Obesity#Placenta#Pregnancy#Thinness'
b'Thiamine is an essential enzyme cofactor required for proper metabolic function and maintenance of metabolism and energy production in the brain. In developed countries, thiamine deficiency (TD) is most often manifested following chronic alcohol consumption leading to impaired mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, inflammation and excitotoxicity. These biochemical lesions result in apoptotic cell death in both neurons and astrocytes. Comparable histological injuries in patients with hypoxia/ischemia and TD have been described in the thalamus and mammillary bodies, suggesting a congruency between the cellular responses to these stresses. Consistent with hypoxia/ischemia, TD stabilizes and activates Hypoxia Inducible Factor-1\xce\xb1 (HIF-1\xce\xb1) under physiological oxygen levels. However, the role of TD-induced HIF-1\xce\xb1 in neurological injury is currently unknown. Using Western blot analysis and RT-PCR, we have demonstrated that TD induces HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression and activity in primary mouse astrocytes. We observed a time-dependent increase in mRNA and protein expression of the pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory HIF-1\xce\xb1 target genes MCP1, BNIP3, Nix and Noxa during TD. We also observed apoptotic cell death in TD as demonstrated by PI/Annexin V staining, TUNEL assay, and Cell Death ELISA. Pharmacological inhibition of HIF-1\xce\xb1 activity using YC1 and thiamine repletion both reduced expression of pro-apoptotic HIF-1\xce\xb1 target genes and apoptotic cell death in TD. These results demonstrate that induction of HIF-1\xce\xb1 mediated transcriptional up-regulation of pro-apoptotic/inflammatory signaling contributes to astrocyte cell death during thiamine deficiency. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Astrocytes#Cells, Cultured#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Male#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Thiamine#Thiamine Deficiency#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD) impacts millions of individuals worldwide and more than 100,000 people in the United States. Leg ulcers are the most common cutaneous manifestation of SCD. The health status of individuals living with chronic leg ulcers is not only influenced by clinical manifestations such as pain duration and intensity, but also by psychosocial factors. Garnering insights into the psychosocial impact can provide a more holistic view of their influence on quality of life.METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with participants living with active SCD-associated leg ulcers or with a history of ulcers. Subjects were recruited from an ongoing study (INSIGHTS, Clin Trial.Gov NCT02156102) and consented to this qualitative phase of the study. Five areas were explored: leg ulcer pain, physical function, social-isolation, social relationships and religious support. Data was collected from 20 individuals during these interviews and a thematic analysis was performed and reported.RESULTS: Twenty participants with a mean age of 42.4 (SD \xc2\xb1 11.1years) were included in the study. Major themes identified included:1) pain (acute and chronic); 2) compromised physical function as demonstrated by decreased ability to walk, run, and play sports; 3) social isolation from activities either by others or self-induced as a means of avoiding certain emotions, such as embarrassment; 4) social relationships (family support and social network); 5) support and comfort through their religion or spirituality.CONCLUSIONS: SCD patients with leg ulcers expressed that they experience social isolation, intense and frequent ulcer pain, and difficulty in physical function. SCD-associated leg ulcers have been studied from a clinical approach, but the psychosocial factors investigated in this study informs how quality of life is impacted by the leg ulcers. labels: #Adult#Anemia, Sickle Cell#Female#Humans#Interview, Psychological#Leg Ulcer#Male#Middle Aged#Pain Measurement#Social Isolation'
b'An investigation of a questionable species of the genus Alseodaphne led to the discovery of a new genus Alseodaphnopsis H. W. Li&J. Li, gen. nov., separated from Alseodaphne Nees, and a new species Alseodaphnopsis ximengensis H. W. Li&J. Li, sp. nov., endemic to Yunnan province, China. This new species is characterized by having big, axillary, paniculate inflorescences, as well as large, subglobose fruits. Based on DNA sequence data from two gene regions (nuclear ribosomal ITS and LEAFY intron II), we investigate its phylogenetic position within the Persea group. Phylogenies using maximum parsimony (MP) and Bayesian inference (BI) support the recognition of Alseodaphnopsis as a distinct genus but do not resolve well its relationship within the Persea group. The new genus is circumscribed, eight new combinations for its species are made, and a description and illustration of the new species are provided. labels: #Base Sequence#Bayes Theorem#Databases, Genetic#Inflorescence#Introns#Lauraceae#Organ Size#Phylogeny'
b'Dinoflagellate species belonging to the genera Gambierdiscus and Fukuyoa produce ciguatoxins (CTXs), potent neurotoxins that concentrate in fish causing ciguatera fish poisoning (CFP) in humans. While the structures and toxicities of ciguatoxins isolated from fish in the Pacific and Caribbean are known, there are few data on the variation in toxicity between and among species of Gambierdiscus and Fukuyoa. Quantifying the differences in species-specific toxicity is especially important to developing an effective cell-based risk assessment strategy for CFP. This study analyzed the ciguatoxicity of 33 strains representing seven Gambierdiscus and one Fukuyoa species using a cell based Neuro-2a cytotoxicity assay. All strains were isolated from either the Caribbean or Gulf of Mexico. The average toxicity of each species was inversely proportional to growth rate, suggesting an evolutionary trade-off between an investment in growth versus the production of defensive compounds. While there is 2- to 27-fold variation in toxicity within species, there was a 1740-fold difference between the least and most toxic species. Consequently, production of CTX or CTX-like compounds is more dependent on the species present than on the random occurrence of high or low toxicity strains. Seven of the eight species tested (G. belizeanus, G. caribaeus, G. carolinianus, G. carpenteri, Gambierdiscus ribotype 2, G. silvae and F. ruetzleri) exhibited low toxicities, ranging from 0 to 24.5 fg CTX3C equivalents cell-1, relative to G. excentricus, which had a toxicity of 469 fg CTX3C eq. cell-1. Isolates of G. excentricus from other regions have shown similarly high toxicities. If the hypothesis that G. excentricus is the primary source of ciguatoxins in the Atlantic is confirmed, it should be possible to identify areas where CFP risk is greatest by monitoring only G. excentricus abundance using species-specific molecular assays. labels: #Analysis of Variance#Animals#Caribbean Region#Cell Line#Ciguatoxins#Dinoflagellida#Gulf of Mexico#Mice#Species Specificity#Toxicity Tests'
b'Proton therapy is a rapidly progressing field for cancer treatment. Globally, many proton therapy facilities are being commissioned or under construction. Secondary neutrons are an important issue during the commissioning process of a proton therapy facility. The purpose of this study is to model and validate scanning nozzles of proton therapy at Samsung Medical Center (SMC) by Monte Carlo simulation for beam commissioning. After the commissioning, a secondary neutron ambient dose from proton scanning nozzle (Gantry 1) was simulated and measured. This simulation was performed to evaluate beam properties such as percent depth dose curve, Bragg peak, and distal fall-off, so that they could be verified with measured data. Using the validated beam nozzle, the secondary neutron ambient dose was simulated and then compared with the measured ambient dose from Gantry 1. We calculated secondary neutron dose at several different points. We demonstrated the validity modeling a proton scanning nozzle system to evaluate various parameters using FLUKA. The measured secondary neutron ambient dose showed a similar tendency with the simulation result. This work will increase the knowledge necessary for the development of radiation safety technology in medical particle accelerators. labels: #Computer Simulation#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Monte Carlo Method#Neutrons#Proton Therapy#Protons#Radiotherapy Dosage#Reproducibility of Results'
b'Iron (Fe) deficiency is one of many conditions that can seriously damage crops. Low levels of photosynthesis can lead to the degradation of chlorophyll content and impaired respiration in affected plants, which together cause poor growth and reduce quality. Although ethylene plays an important role in responses to Fe deficiency, a limited number of studies have been carried out on ethylene response factor (ERFs) as components of plant regulation mechanisms. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the role of AtERF4 in plant responses to Fe deficiency. Results collected when Arabidopsis thaliana was grown under Fe deficient conditions as well as in the presence of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) revealed that leaf chlorosis did not occur over short timescales and that chloroplast structural integrity was retained. At the same time, expression of the chlorophyll degradation-related genes AtPAO and AtCLH1 was inhibited and net H+ root flux was amplified. Our results show that chlorophyll content was enhanced in the mutant erf4, while expression of the chlorophyll degradation gene AtCLH1 was reduced. Ferric reductase activity in roots was also significantly higher in the mutant than in wild type plants, while erf4 caused high levels of expression of the genes AtIRT1 and AtHA2 under Fe deficient conditions. We also utilized yeast one-hybrid technology in this study to determine that AtERF4 binds directly to the AtCLH1 and AtITR1 promoter. Observations show that transient over-expression of AtERF4 resulted in rapid chlorophyll degradation in the leaves of Nicotiana tabacum and the up-regulation of gene AtCLH1 expression. In summary, AtERF4 plays an important role as a negative regulator of Fe deficiency responses, we hypothesize that AtERF4 may exert a balancing effect on plants subject to nutrition stress. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Amino Acids, Cyclic#Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Chlorophyll#Ethylenes#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genes, Plant#Glycine#Iron#Models, Biological#Mutation#Phenotype#Plant Roots#Repressor Proteins'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Deficits in the ability to multitask contribute to gait abnormalities and falls in many at-risk populations. However, it is unclear whether older adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) also demonstrate impairments in multitasking. The purpose of this study was to compare multitasking performance in cognitively intact older adults with and without DM and explore its relationship to measures of gait and functional ability.METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of 40 individuals aged 60 and older with type 2 DM and a matched group of 40 cognitively intact older adults without DM. Multitasking was examined via the ambulatory Walking and Remembering Test (WART) and seated Pursuit Rotor Test (PRT). Self-selected normal and fast walking speed and stride length variability were quantitatively measured, and self-reported functional ability was assessed via the Late Life Function and Disability Index (LLFDI).RESULTS: Participants with DM walked slower and took more steps off path when multitasking during the WART. No between-group differences in multitasking performance were observed on the PRT. Multitasking performance demonstrated little correlation with gait and functional ability in either group.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Older adults with DM appear to perform poorly on an ambulatory measure of multitasking. However, we analyzed a relatively small, homogenous sample of older adults with and without type 2 DM and factors such as peripheral neuropathy and the use of multiple comparisons complicate interpretation of the data. Future research should explore the interactions between multitasking and safety, fall risk, and function in this vulnerable population. Clinicians should recognize that an array of factors may contribute to gait and physical dysfunction in older adults with type 2 diabetes, and be prepared to assess and intervene appropriately. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Disability Evaluation#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Memory#Task Performance and Analysis'
b'We use a 575,000-subject, 28-day experiment to investigate monetary policy in a virtual setting. The experiment tests the effect of virtual currency endowments on player retention and virtual currency demand. An increase in endowments of a virtual currency should lower the demand for the currency in the short run. However, in the long run, we would expect money demand to rise in response to inflation in the virtual world. We test for this behavior in a virtual field experiment in the football management game Top11. 575,000 players were selected at random and allocated to different "shards" or versions of the world. The shards differed only in terms of the initial money endowment offered to new players. Money demand was observed for 28 days as players used real money to purchase additional virtual currency. The results indicate that player money purchases were significantly higher in the shards where higher endowments were given. This suggests that a positive change in the money supply in a virtual context leads to inflation and increased money demand, and does so much more quickly than in real-world economies. Differences between virtual and real currency behavior will become more interesting as virtual currency becomes a bigger part of the real economy. labels: #Behavior#Financial Management#Humans#Inflation, Economic#Internet#Research#User-Computer Interface'
b"Methylation of cytosine at the 5 position of the pyrimidine ring is the most prevalent and significant epigenetic modifications in mammalian DNA. The CpG methylation level shows a bimodal distribution but the bimodality can be overestimated due to the heterogeneity of per-base depth. Here, we developed an algorithm to eliminate the effect of per-base depth inhomogeneity on the bimodality and obtained a random CpG methylation distribution. By quantifying the deviation of the observed methylation distribution and the random one using the information formula, we find that in tetranucleotides 5'-N5CGN3-3' (N5, N3 = A, C, G or T), GCGN3 and CCGN3 show less apparent deviation than ACGN3 and TCGN3, indicating that GCGN3 and CCGN3 are less variant in their level of methylation. The methylation variation of N5CGN3 are conserved among different cells, tissues and species, implying common features in the mechanisms of methylation and demethylation, presumably mediated by DNMTs and TETs in mammalians, respectively. Sequence dependence of DNA methylation variation also relates to gene regulatory and promotes the reexamination of the role of DNA sequence in fundamental biological processes. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Brain#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 1#Conserved Sequence#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Humans#Mammals#Mice#Nucleotides#Organ Specificity#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Species Specificity"
b'BACKGROUND: Muscle atrophy has been explained by an anabolic resistance following food intake and an increase of dietary protein intake is recommended. To be optimal, a dietary protein has to be effective not only to initiate but also to prolong a muscle anabolic response in a catabolic state. To our knowledge, whether or not a dairy or a dairy/plant protein blend fulfills these criterions is unknown in a muscle wasting situation.OBJECTIVE: Our aim was, in a control and a catabolic state, to measure continuously muscle anabolism in term of intensity and duration in response to a meal containing casein (CAS), whey (WHEY) or a whey/ plant protein blend (BLEND) and to evaluate the best protein source to elicit the best post prandial anabolism according to the physio-pathological state.METHODS: Adult male Yucatan mini pigs were infused with U-13C-Phenylalanine and fed either CAS, WHEY or BLEND. A catabolic state was induced by a glucocorticoid treatment for 8 days (DEX). Muscle protein synthesis, proteolysis and balance were measured with the hind limb arterio-venous differences technique. Repeated time variance analysis were used to assess significant differences.RESULTS: In a catabolic situation, whey proteins were able to initiate muscle anabolism which remained transient in contrast to the stimulated muscle protein accretion with WHEY, CAS or BLEND in healthy conditions. Despite the same leucine intake compared to WHEY, BLEND did not restore a positive protein balance in DEX animals.CONCLUSIONS: Even with WHEY, the duration of the anabolic response was not optimal and has to be improved in a catabolic state. The use of BLEND remained of lower efficiency even at same leucine intake than whey. labels: #Anabolic Agents#Animals#Caseins#Eating#Glucocorticoids#Leucine#Metabolism#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Atrophy#Postprandial Period#Swine#Swine, Miniature#Vegetable Proteins#Whey'
b'One of the major players in the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia is disrupted homeostasis of glutamatergic neurotransmission, resulting in elevated extracellular glutamate (Glu) concentrations and excitotoxicity-related cell death. In the brain, Glu concentrations are regulated by Glu transporters, including Glu transporter-1 (GLT-1) and cystine/Glu antiporter (system xc-). Modulation of these transporters by administration of ceftriaxone (CEF, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) or N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 150 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 days before focal cerebral ischemia may induce brain tolerance to ischemia by significantly limiting stroke-related damage and normalizing Glu concentrations. In the present study, focal cerebral ischemia was induced by 90-minute middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). We compared the effects of CEF and NAC pretreatment on Glu concentrations in extracellular fluid and cellular-specific expression of GLT-1 and xCT with the effects of two reference preconditioning methods, namely, ischemic preconditioning and chemical preconditioning in rats. Both CEF and NAC significantly reduced Glu levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus during focal cerebral ischemia, and this decrease was comparable with the Glu level achieved with the reference preconditioning strategies. The results of immunofluorescence staining of GLT-1 and xCT on astrocytes, neurons and microglia accounted for the observed changes in extracellular Glu levels to a certain extent. Briefly, after MCAO, the expression of GLT-1 on astrocytes decreased, but pretreatment with CEF seemed to prevent this downregulation. In addition, every intervention used in this study seemed to reduce xCT expression on astrocytes and neurons. The results of this study indicate that modulation of Glu transporter expression may restore Glu homeostasis. Moreover, our results suggest that CEF and NAC may induce brain tolerance to ischemia by influencing GLT-1 and system xc- expression levels. These transporters are presumably good targets for the development of novel therapies for brain ischemia. labels: #Acetylcysteine#Amino Acid Transport Systems, Acidic#Animals#Astrocytes#Brain Ischemia#Ceftriaxone#Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter 2#Frontal Lobe#Gene Expression Regulation#Glutamic Acid#Hippocampus#Humans#Infarction, Middle Cerebral Artery#Rats#Synaptic Transmission'
b'For clinicians, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a nightmare pathogen that is one of the top three causes of opportunistic human infections. Therapy of P. aeruginosa infections is complicated due to its natural high intrinsic resistance to antibiotics. Active efflux and decreased uptake of drugs due to cell wall/membrane permeability appear to be important issues in the acquired antibiotic tolerance mechanisms. Bacterial cell wall biosynthesis enzymes have been shown to be essential for pathogenicity of Gram-negative bacteria. However, the role of these targets in virulence has not been identified in P. aeruginosa. Here, we report knockout (k.o) mutants of six cell wall biosynthesis targets (murA, PA4450; murD, PA4414; murF, PA4416; ppiB, PA1793; rmlA, PA5163; waaA, PA4988) in P. aeruginosa PAO1, and characterized these in order to find out whether these genes and their products contribute to pathogenicity and virulence of P. aeruginosa. Except waaA k.o, deletion of cell wall biosynthesis targets significantly reduced growth rate in minimal medium compared to the parent strain. The k.o mutants showed exciting changes in cell morphology and colonial architectures. Remarkably, \xce\x94murF cells became grossly enlarged. Moreover, the mutants were also attenuated in vivo in a mouse infection model except \xce\x94murF and \xce\x94waaA and proved to be more sensitive to macrophage-mediated killing than the wild-type strain. Interestingly, the deletion of the murA gene resulted in loss of virulence activity in mice, and the virulence was restored in a plant model by unknown mechanism. This study demonstrates that cell wall targets contribute significantly to intracellular survival, in vivo growth, and pathogenesis of P. aeruginosa. In conclusion, these findings establish a link between cell wall targets and virulence of P. aeruginosa and thus may lead to development of novel drugs for the treatment of P. aeruginosa infection. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Biosynthetic Pathways#Cell Wall#Colony Count, Microbial#DNA, Bacterial#Extracellular Space#Female#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Genes, Bacterial#Genetic Vectors#Lettuce#Lipopolysaccharides#Lung#Macrophages#Mice#Models, Biological#Mutation#Peptidoglycan#Plant Diseases#Pseudomonas Infections#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#Respiratory Tract Diseases#Virulence'
b'OBJECTIVES: To investigate the obstetric and psychological characteristics of women who opt to use epidural analgesia (EDA) during labour and the impact of participating in labour preparation courses on women\'s decisions to use EDA.DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.SETTING: Akershus University Hospital, Norway.POPULATION: 2596 women with singleton pregnancies and intended vaginal delivery.METHODS: Data were collected using two self-completed questionnaires at pregnancy weeks 17 and 32. Fear of childbirth was assessed by the Wijma Delivery Expectancy Questionnaire (W-DEQ). Symptoms of anxiety were measured by the Hopkins Symptom Check List (SCL-25) and depression by the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS). Obstetric and socio-demographic information was retrieved from birth records at the maternity ward.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Preference for EDA was indicated by the questionnaire item "I would prefer an epidural regardless" on a 4-point scale (1 = highly agree, 4 = highly disagree) at pregnancy week 32.RESULTS: Twenty-one percent of the women (540/2596) answered that they would choose EDA as the only alternative method of analgesia during labour. Counselling for fear of childbirth [OR 3.23 (95%CI 2.12; 4.92)] and W-DEQ sum score \xe2\x89\xa5 85 [OR 2.95 (95%CI 2.06; 4.23)]were significantly (p<0.001) associated with choice of EDA. Participation in labour preparation courses was significantly (p = 0.008) associated with a reduction of intended use of EDA during labour [OR 0.67 (95%CI 0.49; 0.90)].CONCLUSION: Fear of childbirth is significantly associated with women\'s choice of EDA during labour. On the other hand, women that participate in labour preparation courses would rather consider other methods of analgesia during labour. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Epidural#Cohort Studies#Confidence Intervals#Delivery, Obstetric#Female#Humans#Labor, Obstetric#Mental Health#Odds Ratio#Parity#Pregnancy'
b"Prior studies showed that scientists' professional networks contribute to research productivity, but little work has examined what factors predict the formation of professional networks. This study sought to 1) examine what factors predict the formation of international ties between faculty and graduate students and 2) identify how these international ties would affect publication productivity in three East Asian countries. Face-to-face surveys and in-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with a sample of faculty and doctoral students in life sciences at 10 research institutions in Japan, Singapore, and Taiwan. Our final sample consisted of 290 respondents (84 faculty and 206 doctoral students) and 1,435 network members. We used egocentric social network analysis to examine the structure of international ties and how they relate to research productivity. Our findings suggest that overseas graduate training can be a key factor in graduate students' development of international ties in these countries. Those with a higher proportion of international ties in their professional networks were likely to have published more papers and written more manuscripts. For faculty, international ties did not affect the number of manuscripts written or of papers published, but did correlate with an increase in publishing in top journals. The networks we examined were identified by asking study participants with whom they discuss their research. Because the relationships may not appear in explicit co-authorship networks, these networks were not officially recorded elsewhere. This study sheds light on the relationships of these invisible support networks to researcher productivity. labels: #Adult#Aged#Biological Science Disciplines#Efficiency#Faculty#Female#Humans#Internationality#Japan#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multilevel Analysis#Research Personnel#Singapore#Social Support#Students#Taiwan#Young Adult"
b'The mechanism of action of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) is mainly attributed to the inhibition of the deacetylase catalytic activity for their histone substrates. In this study, we analyzed the abundance of class I HDACs in the cytosolic, nuclear soluble and chromatin bound cellular fractions in breast cancer cells after HDACi treatment. We found that potent N-hydroxy propenamide-based HDACi induced a concentration dependent decrease in the HDAC1 associated with chromatin and a lasting concomitant increase in cytoplasmic HDAC1 while maintaining total protein expression. No such change occurred with HDAC2 or 8, however, an increase in cytoplasmic non-phosphorylated HDAC3 was also observed. The subcellular re-equilibration of HDAC1 was subsequent to the accumulation of acetylated histones and might be cell cycle dependent. This study suggests that the biological activity of a subset of N-hydroxy propenamide-based HDACi may stem from direct competition with histone substrates of HDACs as well as from spatial separation from their substrates in the nucleus and/or change in post-translational modification status of HDACs. labels: #Acetylation#Cytosol#Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors#Histone Deacetylases#Histones#Humans#MCF-7 Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Mitogens#Models, Biological#Phosphorylation#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Protein Transport#Subcellular Fractions'
b'Objectives: Determine performance of the cobas human papillomavirus (HPV) test for triage of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) in SurePath.Methods: Women presenting for routine screening had cervical specimens collected in SurePath and specimen transport medium (STM); those with ASC-US cytology underwent colposcopy. Performance of cobas HPV in SurePath specimens that had undergone a preanalytic procedure to reverse possible cross-linking of HPV DNA was compared with Hybrid Capture 2 (hc2) specimens in STM.Results: Among 856 women, HPV prevalence was 45.8%; HPV 16 and HPV 18 prevalences were lower than expected in the 21- to 29-year-old group in this highly vaccinated population. cobas HPV performance in SurePath was comparable to hc2 in STM. Sensitivity and specificity for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or worse were 87.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 71.9%-95.2%) and 55.5% (95% CI, 52.1%-58.9%) for cobas and 85.3% (95% CI, 69.9%-93.6%) and 54.7% (95% CI, 51.4%-57.9%) for hc2. Sensitivity was negatively affected by random biopsies performed at colposcopy; comparable sensitivities were achieved in the nonvaccinated and vaccinated populations with disease determined by directed biopsy only.Conclusions: Performance of cobas HPV for ASC-US triage in pretreated SurePath specimens meets criteria for validation. Preliminary data indicate reliable performance of HPV testing in a highly vaccinated population. labels: #Adult#Atypical Squamous Cells of the Cervix#Cytodiagnosis#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Papillomaviridae#Papillomavirus Infections#Prevalence#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tissue Fixation#Triage#Young Adult'
b'Development of a universal influenza vaccine is a research priority for the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the National Institutes of Health. To facilitate this goal, we convened a workshop in Rockville, Maryland to identify knowledge gaps in influenza research and develop strategies to fill them. labels: #Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Ferrets#Humans#Influenza A virus#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human#National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (U.S.)#United States'
b'Distinct molecular pathways govern the differentiation of CD8+effector T\xc2\xa0cells into memory or exhausted T\xc2\xa0cells during acute and chronic viral infection, but these are not well studied in humans. Here, we employed an integrative systems immunology approach to identify transcriptional commonalities and differences between virus-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cells from patients with persistent and spontaneously resolving hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection during the acute phase. We observed dysregulation of metabolic processes during early persistent infection that was linked to changes in expression of genes related to nucleosomal regulation of transcription, T\xc2\xa0cell differentiation, and the inflammatory response and correlated with subject age, sex, and the presence of HCV-specific CD4+T\xc2\xa0cell populations. These early changes in HCV-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cell transcription preceded the overt establishment of T\xc2\xa0cell exhaustion, making this signature a prime target in the search for the regulatory origins of T\xc2\xa0cell dysfunction in chronic viral infection. labels: #Acute Disease#Adaptive Immunity#Adult#Aged#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cluster Analysis#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Variation#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Time Factors#Transcription, Genetic#Young Adult'
b'In the Drosophila immune response, bacterial derived diaminopimelic acid-type peptidoglycan binds the receptors PGRP-LC and PGRP-LE, which through interaction with the adaptor protein Imd leads to activation of the NF-\xce\xbaB homolog Relish and robust antimicrobial peptide gene expression. PGRP-LC, PGRP-LE, and Imd each contain a motif with some resemblance to the RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif (RHIM), a domain found in mammalian RIPK proteins forming functional amyloids during necroptosis. Here we found that despite sequence divergence, these Drosophila cryptic RHIMs formed amyloid fibrils in\xc2\xa0vitro and in cells. Amyloid formation was required for signaling downstream of Imd, and in contrast to the mammalian RHIMs, was not associated with cell death. Furthermore, amyloid formation constituted a regulatable step and could be inhibited by Pirk, an endogenous feedback regulator of this pathway. Thus, diverse sequence motifs are capable of forming amyloidal signaling platforms, and the formation of these platforms may present a regulatory point in multiple biological processes. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Amyloid#Animals#Binding Sites#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Female#Gene Expression#Male#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Immunological#Mutation#NF-kappa B#Receptor-Interacting Protein Serine-Threonine Kinases#Receptors, Cell Surface#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Signal Transduction'
b'The classical model of hematopoiesis established in the mouse postulates that lymphoid cells originate from a founder population of common lymphoid progenitors. Here, using a modeling approach in humanized mice, we showed that human lymphoid development stemmed from distinct populations of CD127-and CD127+early lymphoid progenitors (ELPs). Combining molecular analyses with in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo functional assays, we demonstrated that CD127-and CD127+ELPs emerged independently from lympho-mono-dendritic progenitors, responded differently to Notch1 signals, underwent divergent modes of lineage restriction, and displayed both common and specific differentiation potentials. Whereas CD127-ELPs comprised precursors of T\xc2\xa0cells, marginal zone B\xc2\xa0cells, and natural killer (NK) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), CD127+ELPs supported production of all NK cell, ILC, and B cell populations but lacked T potential. On the basis of these results, we propose a "two-family" model of human lymphoid development that differs from the prevailing model of hematopoiesis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#B-Lymphocytes#Cell Differentiation#Cell Lineage#Cells, Cultured#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Interleukin Receptor Common gamma Subunit#Interleukin-7 Receptor alpha Subunit#Killer Cells, Natural#Lymphoid Progenitor Cells#Lymphopoiesis#Male#Mice, Inbred NOD#Mice, Knockout#Mice, SCID#Middle Aged#Stem Cell Transplantation#T-Lymphocytes#Transplantation, Heterologous#Young Adult'
b'A heterogeneous mixture of lipids called oxPAPC, derived from dying cells, can hyperactivate dendritic cells (DCs) but not macrophages. Hyperactive DCs are defined by their ability to release interleukin-1 (IL-1) while maintaining cell viability, endowing these cells with potent aptitude to stimulate adaptive immunity. Herein, we found that the bacterial lipopolysaccharide receptor CD14 captured extracellular oxPAPC and delivered these lipids into the cell to promote inflammasome-dependent DC hyperactivation. Notably, we identified two specific components within the oxPAPC mixture that hyperactivated macrophages, allowing these cells to release IL-1 for several days, by a CD14-dependent process. In murine models of sepsis, conditions that promoted cell hyperactivation resulted in inflammation but not lethality. Thus, multiple phagocytes are capable of hyperactivation in response to oxPAPC, with CD14 acting as the earliest regulator in this process, serving to capture and transport these lipids to promote inflammatory cell fate decisions. labels: #Adaptive Immunity#Animals#Blotting, Western#Cell Line#Cell Survival#Dendritic Cells#Endocytosis#Female#Flow Cytometry#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inflammasomes#Interleukin-1#Lipopolysaccharide Receptors#Lipopolysaccharides#Macrophages#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Phagocytes#Phosphatidylcholines'
b'Gastro-intestinal helminth infections trigger the release of interleukin-33 (IL-33), which induces type-2 helper T\xc2\xa0cells (Th2 cells) at the site of infection to produce IL-13, thereby contributing to host resistance in a T\xc2\xa0cell receptor (TCR)-independent manner. Here, we show that, as a prerequisite for IL-33-induced IL-13 secretion, Th2 cells required the expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and of its ligand, amphiregulin, for the formation of a signaling complex between T1/ST2 (the IL-33R) and EGFR. This shared signaling complex allowed IL-33 to induce the EGFR-mediated activation of the MAP-kinase signaling pathway and consequently the expression of IL-13. Lack of EGFR expression on T\xc2\xa0cells abrogated IL-13 expression in infected tissues and impaired host resistance. EGFR expression on Th2 cells was TCR-signaling dependent, and therefore, our data reveal a mechanism by which antigen presentation controls the innate effector function of Th2 cells at the site of inflammation. labels: #Amphiregulin#Animals#Cell Line#Cells, Cultured#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Interleukin-13#Interleukin-33#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Nematospiroides dubius#Nocardia#Nocardia Infections#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Strongylida Infections#Th2 Cells'
b"Infection by helminth parasites is associated with amelioration of allergic reactivity, but mechanistic insights into this association are lacking. Products secreted by the mouse parasite Heligmosomoides polygyrus suppress type 2 (allergic) immune responses through interference in the interleukin-33 (IL-33) pathway. Here, we identified H.\xc2\xa0polygyrus Alarmin Release Inhibitor (HpARI), an IL-33-suppressive 26-kDa protein, containing three predicted complement control protein (CCP) modules. In\xc2\xa0vivo, recombinant HpARI abrogated IL-33, group 2 innate lymphoid cell (ILC2) and eosinophilic responses to Alternaria allergen administration, and diminished eosinophilic responses to Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, increasing parasite burden. HpARI bound directly to both mouse and human IL-33 (in the cytokine's activated state) and also to nuclear DNA via its N-terminal CCP module pair (CCP1/2), tethering active IL-33 within necrotic cells, preventing its release, and forestalling initiation of type 2 allergic responses. Thus, HpARI employs a novel molecular strategy to suppress type 2 immunity in both infection and allergy. labels: #Allergens#Alternaria#Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Blotting, Western#Eosinophils#Helminth Proteins#Host-Parasite Interactions#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Interleukin-33#Lymphocytes#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Nematospiroides dubius#Protein Binding#Receptors, Interleukin#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Strongylida Infections"
b'After traumatic injury, some cells function as detectors to sense injury and to modulate the local immune response toward a restitution phase by affecting the local cytokine milieu. Using intravital microscopy, we\xc2\xa0observed that patrolling invariant natural killer T\xc2\xa0(iNKT) cells were initially excluded from a site of hepatic injury but subsequently were strategically arrested first via self-antigens and then by cytokines, circumscribing the injured site at exactly the location where monocytes co-localized and hepatocytes proliferated. Activation of iNKT cells by self-antigens resulted in the production of interleukin-4 (IL-4) but not interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3). This promoted increased hepatocyte proliferation, monocyte transition (from Ly6Chito Ly6Clo), and improved healing where IL-4 from iNKT cells was critical for these processes. Disruption of any of these mechanisms led to delayed wound healing. We have shown that self-antigen-driven iNKT cells function as sensors and orchestrators of the transformation from inflammation to tissue restitution for essential timely wound repair. labels: #Animals#Autoantigens#Cell Proliferation#Hepatocytes#Inflammation#Interleukin-4#Kupffer Cells#Liver#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Fluorescence, Multiphoton#Monocytes#Natural Killer T-Cells#Time Factors#Wound Healing'
b'The latent reservoir for HIV-1 in resting memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells is the major barrier to curing HIV-1 infection. Studies of HIV-1 latency have focused on regulation of viral gene expression in cells in which latent infection is established. However, it remains unclear how infection initially becomes latent. Here we described a unique set of properties of CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells undergoing effector-to-memory transition including temporary upregulation of CCR5 expression and rapid downregulation of cellular gene transcription. These cells allowed completion of steps in the HIV-1 life cycle through integration but suppressed HIV-1 gene transcription, thus allowing the establishment of latency. CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells in this stage were substantially more permissive for HIV-1 latent infection than other CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells. Establishment of latent HIV-1 infection in CD4+T could be inhibited by viral-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cells, a result with implications for elimination of latent HIV-1 infection by T\xc2\xa0cell-based vaccines. labels: #CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cells, Cultured#Cellular Reprogramming#Cytokines#Female#Flow Cytometry#Gene Expression Profiling#HIV-1#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Immunologic Memory#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Transcription, Genetic#Virus Latency#Virus Replication'
b'Antiretroviral therapy (ART) suppresses viral replication in HIV-infected individuals but does not eliminate the reservoir of latently infected cells. Recent work identified PD-1+follicular helper T (Tfh) cells as an important cellular compartment for viral persistence. Here, using ART-treated, SIV-infected rhesus macaques, we show that CTLA-4+PD-1-memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells, which share phenotypic markers with\xc2\xa0regulatory T\xc2\xa0cells, were enriched in SIV DNA in blood, lymph nodes (LN), spleen, and gut, and contained replication-competent and infectious virus. In contrast to PD-1+Tfh cells, SIV-enriched CTLA-4+PD-1-CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells were found outside the B cell follicle of the LN, predicted the size of the persistent viral reservoir during ART, and significantly increased their contribution to the SIV reservoir with prolonged ART-mediated viral suppression. We have shown that CTLA-4+PD-1-memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells are a previously unrecognized component of the SIV and HIV reservoir that should be therapeutically targeted for a functional HIV-1 cure. labels: #Animals#Anti-Retroviral Agents#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CTLA-4 Antigen#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Immunologic Memory#In Situ Hybridization#Lymph Nodes#Macaca mulatta#Microscopy, Confocal#Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor#Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome#Simian Immunodeficiency Virus#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory'
b'Inhibitors of the receptor tyrosine kinase c-MET are currently used in the clinic to target oncogenic signaling in tumor cells. We found that concomitant c-MET inhibition promoted adoptive T\xc2\xa0cell transfer and checkpoint immunotherapies in murine cancer models by increasing effector T\xc2\xa0cell infiltration in tumors. This therapeutic effect was independent of\xc2\xa0tumor cell-intrinsic c-MET dependence. Mechanistically, c-MET inhibition impaired the reactive mobilization and recruitment of neutrophils into tumors and draining lymph nodes in response to cytotoxic immunotherapies. In the absence of c-MET inhibition,\xc2\xa0neutrophils recruited to T\xc2\xa0cell-inflamed microenvironments rapidly acquired immunosuppressive properties, restraining T\xc2\xa0cell expansion and effector functions. In cancer patients, high serum levels of the c-MET ligand HGF correlated with increasing neutrophil counts and poor responses to checkpoint blockade therapies. Our findings reveal a role for the\xc2\xa0HGF/c-MET pathway in neutrophil recruitment and function and suggest that c-MET inhibitor co-treatment may improve responses to cancer immunotherapy in settings beyond c-MET-dependent tumors. labels: #Animals#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Immunotherapy#Interferon-gamma#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Neoplasms, Experimental#Neutrophils#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Signal Transduction#T-Lymphocytes#Tumor Microenvironment'
b'According to the federal statistical office, cardiovascular disorders are still the leading cause of death in Germany. Chronic ischemic heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most important subgroups. In addition to evidence-based and personalized medicine, in recent years gender medicine has been established as an independent research area. Gender differences are evident in the majority of prevalent diseases, including cardiovascular disorders. The following article provides an insight into the diagnostically and therapeutically specific aspects of coronary heart disease in men and women. labels: #Adult#Antibodies, Antiphospholipid#Contraceptives, Oral#Coronary Disease#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dyslipidemias#Estrogen Replacement Therapy#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Menopause, Premature#Middle Aged#Overweight#Pre-Eclampsia#Pregnancy#Psychology#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Smoking'
b'Patients with microvascular angina are characterized by angina pectoris with proof of myocardial ischemia in the absence of any relevant epicardial stenosis and without myocardial disease (type 1 coronary microvascular dysfunction according to Crea and Camici). Structural and functional alterations of the coronary microvessels (diameter<\xe2\x80\x8a500\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb5m) are the reason for this phenomenon. Frequently such alterations are associated with cardiovascular risk factors. Patients with angina pectoris without epicardial stenoses represent for 10\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8a50\xe2\x80\x8a% of all patients undergoing coronary angiography depending on the clinical presentation. Diagnostic approaches include non-invasive (e.\xe2\x80\x8ag. combination of coronary CT-angiography and positron emission tomography/echo Doppler-based coronary flow reserve measurements) as well as invasive procedures (coronary flow reserve measurements in response to adenosine, intracoronary acetylcholine testing). Pharmacological treatment of these patients is often challenging and should be based on the characterization of the underlying mechanisms. Moreover, strict risk factor control and individually titrated combinations of antianginal substances (e.\xe2\x80\x8ag. beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, ranolazine, ivabradine etc.) are recommended. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Calcium Channel Blockers#Cardiovascular Agents#Coronary Vasospasm#Coronary Vessels#Humans#Implantable Neurostimulators#Microvascular Angina#Myocardial Ischemia#Physical Conditioning, Human#Risk Factors#Sodium Channel Blockers'
b"An invasive measurement of the fractional flow reserve (FFR) allows the valuation of the individual risk for ischemic events in patients with coronary artery disease. Therefore, FFR has become a valuable tool to guide coronary revascularisations. The cut-off value \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a0.80 has been validated in many different subsets of patients. However, FFR values describe a risk continuum with an inverse correlation between FFR value and the risk of events. So FFR should always be interpreted regarding the patient's clinical context, especially in patients with a high risk for rapid disease progression. As such, patients with diabetes mellitus and deferred revascularisation based on FFR>\xe2\x80\x8a0.80 had worse clinical outcomes compared to patients without diabetes. In addition, FFR shows methodical deficiencies concerning the quantification of serial stenoses as well as the valuation of residual ischemia of the culprit vessel early after myocardial infarction. This article highlights both the strengths and the pitfalls in the use and interpretation of FFR. labels: #Adenosine#Angina, Stable#Contraindications#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Bypass#Coronary Disease#Coronary Stenosis#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Diabetes Complications#Fractional Flow Reserve, Myocardial#Humans#Myocardial Infarction#Myocardial Ischemia#Myocardial Revascularization#Reference Values#Risk Assessment#Stents#Ultrasonography, Interventional"
b'The need for coronary computed tomography (CTA) is still a matter of discussion. Areas in which CTA can replace invasive coronary angiography are rare. More data is needed to precise in which clinical settings CTA might be beneficial. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Disease#Humans'
b'The guidelines on the management of stable coronary artery disease (SCAD) recommend the use of coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) in the process of diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients with low intermediate pre-test probability for SCAD. Particularly in cases where stress electrocardiogram or stress imaging provides unclear results, a computed tomographic examination can be considered as a reliable alternative to invasive coronary angiography. Due to its high negative predictive value, coronary CTA can provide accurate information on the presence of coronary artery stenosis and thus coronary artery disease can be reliably excluded without the risks associated with invasive procedures. Similarly, patients with unstable angina or chest pain without typical alterations in the electrocardiogram and without an elevation of troponin can also benefit from a non-invasive coronary CTA-based diagnostics as first approach as it allows ruling out the presence of disease or planning an intervention without the risks associated with a potentially inappropriate invasive approach. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Humans'
b'History and clinical findings\xe2\x80\x82We report on three patients suffering from skin and soft tissue infections of the legs due to toxigenic Corynebacterium ulcerans strains. In all three patients, there was a predisposition due to chronic diseases. Three patients had domestic animals (cat, dog) in their households.Investigations and diagnosis\xe2\x80\x82A mixed bacterial flora including Corynebacterium ulcerans was found in wound swab samples. Diphtheric toxin was produced by the Corynebacterium ulcerans strains in all three cases.Treatment and course\xe2\x80\x82In all three patients, successful handling of the skin and soft tissue infections was possible by combining local treatment with antibiotics. Diphtheria antitoxin was not administered in any case.Conclusion\xe2\x80\x82Based on a review of the recent literature pathogenesis, clinical symptoms and signs, diagnostics and therapy of skin and soft tissue infections due to Corynebacterium ulcerans are discussed. Corynebacterium ulcerans should be considered as a potential cause of severe skin and soft tissue infections. Occupational or domestic animal contacts should be evaluated. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Animals, Domestic#Bacterial Toxins#Corynebacterium#Corynebacterium Infections#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Skin Diseases, Bacterial#Soft Tissue Infections'
b'Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death globally. Poor diet constitutes a key factor in the initiation and progression of cardiovascular disease and has become the leading risk factor for disability and death worldwide. Therefore, addressing suboptimal nutrition is of key prognostic relevance in primary and secondary prevention of metabolic vascular syndrome.Metabolic vascular syndrome is a multidimensional network of acquired cardiometabolic risk factors closely related to insulin resistance (IR) and concomitant hyperinsulinemia. IR, being the underlying cause of metabolic vascular syndrome and certain types of cancer, should attract the attention of every clinician. As changes in lipoprotein metabolism are one of the earliest indicators of metabolic dysfunction, a relevant biomarker for identifying individuals with IR is the TAG/HDL-C ratio.IR - and concomitant metabolic vascular risk - can be effectively treated by lifestyle intervention. If IR is present, dietary carbohydrate restriction has consistently been shown to be superior to dietary fat restriction in reversing metabolic dysfunction. The beneficial effects of carbohydrate restricted diets on metabolic vascular risk are independent of BMI - diet quality therefore confers patient benefit beyond weight reduction.The effect of single nutrients on isolated lipid surrogate markers such as LDL-C does not capture their global effect on metabolic vascular risk.Targeting IR with a low glycemic load, real food diet will reduce overall energy density and will improve all risk factors of metabolic vascular syndrome. In particular, replacing refined carbohydrates with healthy fats in the context of a Mediterranean style-, low carbohydrate and calorie-unrestricted dietary pattern has been shown to significantly reduce burden of metabolic vascular disease. labels: #Cardiovascular Diseases#Diet#Dietary Carbohydrates#Dietary Fats, Unsaturated#Dietary Proteins#Feeding Behavior#Fish Products#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Overweight#Risk Factors'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine whether being upright in the second stage of labour in nulliparous women with a low dose epidural increases the chance of spontaneous vaginal birth compared with lying down.Design\xc2\xa0Multicentre pragmatic individually randomised controlled trial.Setting\xc2\xa041 UK hospital labour wards.Participants\xc2\xa03093 nulliparous women aged 16 or older, at term with a singleton cephalic presentation and in the second stage of labour with epidural analgesia.Interventions\xc2\xa0Women were allocated to an upright or lying down position, using a secure web based randomisation service, stratified by centre, with no masking of participants or clinicians to the trial interventions.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcome was spontaneous vaginal birth. Women were analysed in the groups into which they were randomly allocated, regardless of position recorded at any time during the second stage of labour (excluding women with no valid consent, who withdrew, or who did not reach second stage before delivery). Secondary outcomes included mode of birth, perineal trauma, infant Apgar score<4 at five minutes, admission to a neonatal unit, and longer term included maternal physical and psychological health, incontinence, and infant gross developmental delay.Results\xc2\xa0Between 4 October 2010 and 31 January 2014, 3236 women were randomised and 3093 (95.6%) included in the primary analysis (1556 in the upright group and 1537 in the lying down group). Significantly fewer spontaneous vaginal births occurred in women in the upright group: 35.2% (548/1556) compared with 41.1% (632/1537) in the lying down group (adjusted risk ratio 0.86, 95% confidence interval 0.78 to 0.94). This represents a 5.9% absolute increase in the chance of spontaneous vaginal birth in the lying down group (number needed to treat 17, 95% confidence interval 11 to 40). No evidence of differences was found for most of the secondary maternal, neonatal, or longer term outcomes including instrumental vaginal delivery (adjusted risk ratio 1.08, 99% confidence interval 0.99 to 1.18), obstetric anal sphincter injury (1.27, 0.88 to 1.84), infant Apgar score<4 at five minutes (0.66, 0.06 to 6.88), and maternal faecal incontinence at one year (1.18, 0.61 to 2.28).Conclusions\xc2\xa0Evidence shows that lying down in the second stage of labour results in more spontaneous vaginal births in nulliparous women with epidural analgesia, with no apparent disadvantages in relation to short or longer term outcomes for mother or baby.Trial registration\xc2\xa0Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN35706297. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Obstetrical#Anesthesia, Epidural#Anesthetics#Apgar Score#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Labor Stage, Second#Labor, Obstetric#Long Term Adverse Effects#Obstetric Labor Complications#Parity#Patient Positioning#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#United Kingdom'
b'Objectives\xc2\xa0To examine temporal trends in sex and age specific incidence of self harm in children and adolescents, clinical management patterns, and risk of cause specific mortality following an index self harm episode at a young age.Design\xc2\xa0Population based cohort study.Setting\xc2\xa0UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink-electronic health records from 647 general practices, with practice level deprivation measured ecologically using the index of multiple deprivation. Patients from eligible English practices were linked to hospital episode statistics (HES) and Office for National Statistics (ONS) mortality records.Participants\xc2\xa0For the descriptive analytical phases we examined data pertaining to 16\xe2\x80\x89912 patients aged 10-19 who harmed themselves during 2001-14. For analysis of cause specific mortality following self harm, 8638 patients eligible for HES and ONS linkage were matched by age, sex, and general practice with up to 20 unaffected children and adolescents (n=170\xe2\x80\x89274).Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0In the first phase, temporal trends in sex and age specific annual incidence were examined. In the second phase, clinical management was assessed according to the likelihood of referral to mental health services and psychotropic drug prescribing. In the third phase, relative risks of all cause mortality, unnatural death (including suicide and accidental death), and fatal acute alcohol or drug poisoning were estimated as hazard ratios derived from stratified Cox proportional hazards models for the self harm cohort versus the matched unaffected comparison cohort.Results\xc2\xa0The annual incidence of self harm was observed to increase in girls (37.4 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000) compared with boys (12.3 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000), and a sharp 68% increase occurred among girls aged 13-16, from 45.9 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000 in 2011 to 77.0 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000 in 2014. Referrals within 12 months of the index self harm episode were 23% less likely for young patients registered at the most socially deprived practices, even though incidences were considerably higher in these localities. Children and adolescents who harmed themselves were approximately nine times more likely to die unnaturally during follow-up, with especially noticeable increases in risks of suicide (deprivation adjusted hazard ratio 17.5, 95% confidence interval 7.6 to 40.5) and fatal acute alcohol or drug poisoning (34.3, 10.2 to 115.7).Conclusions\xc2\xa0Gaining a better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the recent apparent increase in the incidence of self harm among early-mid teenage girls, and coordinated initiatives to tackle health inequalities in the provision of services to distressed children and adolescents, represent urgent priorities for multiple public agencies. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Mental Health Services#Patient Care Management#Primary Health Care#Proportional Hazards Models#Psychotropic Drugs#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Self-Injurious Behavior#Sex Factors#Suicide#United Kingdom'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Congenital heart disease (CHD) is common in trisomy 13 (T13) and trisomy 18 (T18), but surgical repair has not been offered in most centers. Data on outcomes of congenital heart surgery (CHS) for T13 and T18 are lacking. We sought to determine the impact of CHS on in-hospital mortality in T13 and T18.METHODS: Data from the 2004 to 2015 Pediatric Health Information System database were used to identify inpatients with T13 or T18 and CHD. Data were restricted to newborns with T13 or T18 admitted at \xe2\x89\xa414 days of age. Hospital readmissions were examined to analyze longer-term in-hospital mortality. In-hospital mortality and length of stay were compared between infants with and without CHD and with and without CHS.RESULTS: The study cohort included 1020 infants with T18 and 648 infants with T13. CHD was present in 91% of infants with T18 and 86% of infants with T13. CHS was performed in 7% of each group. In-hospital mortality was decreased in those who underwent CHS (64% lower in T18 [P<.001]; 45% lower in T13 [P= .003]) and remained decreased throughout the 24 months of follow-up. In-hospital mortality was decreased in infants with higher weight, female sex, and older age at admission.CONCLUSIONS: CHS is associated with decreased in-hospital mortality in T18 and T13. These results suggest CHS may be beneficial in select cases. labels: #Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Chromosome Disorders#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 13#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 18#Cohort Studies#Female#Heart Defects, Congenital#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male#Retrospective Studies#Trisomy#Trisomy 13 Syndrome#Trisomy 18 Syndrome'
b'OBJECTIVES: Ethmoid punch sinusotomy (EPS) is a feasible treatment for ethmoid sinusitis in a subset of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) patients per a recent report. This adjunctive work investigates the technical characteristics of EPS and determines if EPS measurably alters the topical delivery of irrigant into the ethmoid sinuses in a cadaveric model.METHODS: The sinonasal cavities of 10 human cadaver heads were irrigated with a solution containing methylene blue and radio-opaque contrast prior to and following EPS. Procedural characteristics and irrigant distribution were assessed by endoscopy and computed tomography.RESULTS: Forty EPS procedures were performed through the ethmoid bulla and basal lamella. Compared to controls, EPS enhanced dye distribution into the anterior (90% vs 35%, P<.004) and posterior (90% vs 35%, P<.002) ethmoid sinuses, representing a 157% increase for each of these sites. Contrast was detected in a higher proportion of anterior (65% vs 5%, P<.001) and posterior (60% vs 0%, P<.001) ethmoid sinuses. Endoscopically guided catheter instillation of contrast through the EPS sites achieved radiotracer distribution throughout the ethmoid complex.CONCLUSIONS: Ethmoid punch sinusotomy sites can be reliably created via micro-minimally invasive procedures. Ethmoid punch sinusotomy improves irrigant delivery to the ethmoid sinuses, providing mechanistic understanding for the clinical outcomes observed in CRS patients. labels: #Cadaver#Endoscopy#Ethmoid Sinus#Humans#Rhinitis#Sinusitis#Therapeutic Irrigation#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Omphalocele is a congenital midline ventral body wall defect that can exist as isolated malformation or as part of a syndrome. It can be considered one of the major and most frequent clinical manifestation of Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome (BWS) in case of loss of methylation at KCNQ1OT1: Transcription Star Site-Differentially Methylated Region (TSS-DMR) or in presence of CDKN1C mutations. The isolated form of the omphalocele accounts approximately for about the 14% of the total cases and its molecular etiology has never been fully elucidated.METHODS: Given the tight relationship with BWS, we hypothesized that the isolated form of the omphalocele could belong to the heterogeneous spectrum of the BWS associated features, representing an endophenotype with a clear genetic connection. We therefore investigated genetic and epigenetic changes affecting BWS imprinted locus at 11p15.5 imprinted region, focusing in particular on the KCNQ1OT1:TSS DMR.RESULTS: We studied 21 cases of isolated omphalocele detected during pregnancy or at birth and identified the following rare maternally inherited variants: i) the non-coding variant G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A at nucleotide 687 (NR_002728.3) at KCNQ1OT1:TSS-DMR, which alters the methylation pattern of the imprinted allele, in one patient; ii) the deletion c.624-629delGGCCCC at exon 1 of CDKN1C, with unknown clinical significance, in two unrelated cases.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these findings suggest that KCNQ1OT1:TSS-DMR could be a susceptibility locus for the isolated omphalocele. labels: #Base Sequence#Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome#Child, Preschool#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#Consanguinity#Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p57#DNA Methylation#DNA Mutational Analysis#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genomic Imprinting#Hernia, Umbilical#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Mutation#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Sequence Deletion#Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid#Transcription Initiation Site'
b'BACKGROUND: Mutations in LMNA gene, encoding Lamin A/C, cause a diverse array of phenotypes, collectively referred to as laminopathies. The most common manifestation is dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), occurring in conjunction with variable skeletal muscle involvement but without involvement of the coronary arteries. Much less commonly, LMNA mutations cause progeroid syndromes, whereby an early-onset coronary artery disease (CAD) is the hallmark of the disease. We report a hitherto unreported compound cardiac phenotype, dubbed as "non-syndromic cardiac progeria", in a young patient who carried a rare pathogenic variant in the LMNA gene and developed progressive degeneration of various cardiac structures, as seen in the elderly. The phenotype resembled the progeroid syndromes, except that it was restricted to the heart and did not involve other organs.CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a well-developed Caucasian female who presented at age 29\xc2\xa0years with an acute myocardial infarction (MI) and was found to have extensive CAD. She had none of the conventional risk factors for atherosclerosis. She underwent coronary artery bypass surgery but continued to require multiple percutaneous coronary interventions for symptomatic obstructive coronary lesions. During the course of next 10\xc2\xa0years, she developed mitral regurgitation, degenerative mitral and aortic valve diseases, atrial flutter, and progressive conduction defects. She died from progressive heart failure with predominant involvement of the right ventricle and severe tricuspid regurgitation. Cardiac phenotype in this young patient resembled degenerative cardiac diseases of the elderly and the progeroid syndromes. However, in contrast to the progeroid syndromes, the phenotype was restricted to the heart and did not involve other organs. Thus, the phenotype was dubbed as a non-syndromic cardiac progeria. Genetic screening of several cardiomyopathy genes, including LMNA, which is a causal gene for progeroid syndromes, led to identification of a very rare pathogenic p.Asp300Asn variant in the LMNA gene.CONCLUSIONS: We infer that the LMNA p.Asp300Asn mutation is pathogenic in non-syndromic cardiac progeria. Mutations involving codon 300 in the LMNA gene have been associated with progeroid syndromes involving multiple organs. Collectively, the data provide credence to the causal role of p.Asp300Asn mutation in the pathogenesis of non-syndromic cardiac progeria. labels: #Adult#Amino Acid Sequence#Asparagine#Aspartic Acid#Base Sequence#Coronary Artery Disease#Echocardiography#Electrocardiography#Fatal Outcome#Female#Humans#Lamin Type A#Mutation, Missense#Myocardial Infarction#Pedigree#Progeria#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid'
b'During an entomological surveillance for arthropod-borne viruses in the Philippines, we isolated a previously unrecognized virus from female Armigeres spp. mosquitoes. Whole-genome sequencing, genetic characterization and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolated virus, designated Armigeres iflavirus (ArIFV), is a novel member of the iflaviruses (genus Iflavirus, family Iflaviridae) and phylogenetically related to Moku virus, Hubei odonate virus 4, slow bee paralysis virus and Graminella nigrifrons virus 1. To our knowledge, this is the first successful isolation of iflavirus from a dipteran insect. Spherical ArIFV particles of approximately 30\xe2\x80\x89nm in diameter contained at least three major structural proteins. ArIFV multiplied to high titres (~109\xe2\x80\x89p.f.u. ml-1) and formed clear plaques in a mosquito cell line, C6/36. Our findings provide new insights into the infection mechanism, genetic diversity and evolution of the Iflaviridae family. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Culicidae#Insect Viruses#Philippines#RNA Viruses#Viral Plaque Assay#Viral Structural Proteins#Virion'
b'2D surfaces offer simple analysis of cells in culture, yet these often yield different cell morphologies and responses from those observed in vivo. Considerable effort has therefore been expended on the generation of more tissue-like environments for the study of cell behavior in vitro. Purified matrix proteins provide a 3D scaffold that better mimics the in vivo situation; however, these are far removed from the complex tissue composition seen in vivo. Cell-derived matrices (CDMs) offer a more physiologically relevant alternative for studying in vivo-like cell behavior in vitro. In the protocol described here, fibroblasts cultured on gelatin-coated surfaces are maintained in the presence of ascorbic acid to strengthen matrix deposition over 1-3 weeks. The resulting fibrillar CDMs are denuded of cells, and other cells are subsequently cultured on them, after which their behavior is monitored. We also demonstrate how to use CDMs as an in vivo-relevant reductionist model for studying tumor-stroma-induced changes in carcinoma cell proliferation and migration. labels: #Cell Culture Techniques#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Collagen#Fibroblasts#Humans'
b'Ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like modifiers (UBLs) such as small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) can act as antagonists to one another by competing to occupy similar residues in the proteome. In addition, SUMO and ubiquitin can be coupled to each other at key lysine residues to form highly branched protein networks. The interplay between these modifications governs important biological processes such as double-strand break repair and meiotic recombination. We recently developed an approach that permits the identification of proteins that are modified by both SUMOylation and ubiquitylation. This protocol requires cells that express a mutant 6\xc3\x97His-SUMO3m protein that has had its C terminus modified from QQQTGG to RNQTGG, enabling the purification of SUMOylated peptides and their identification by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Cells are lysed under denaturing conditions, and the SUMOylated proteins are purified on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) resin via the 6\xc3\x97His on the SUMO3m construct. After on-bead digestion using trypsin, ubiquitylated peptides are enriched by immunoprecipitation, and the flow-through from this step is subjected to anti-SUMO immunoprecipitation. The SUMOylated peptides are fractionated on strong cation exchange (SCX) StageTips to enhance the coverage of the SUMO proteome. The ubiquitylated and SUMOylated peptides are analyzed separately by liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS and identified with MaxQuant. We demonstrate how this approach can be used to identify temporal changes in SUMOylated and ubiquitylated proteins in response to, for instance, heat shock and proteasome inhibition. The procedure requires 3 d when starting from cell pellets and yields>8,000 SUMO sites and>3,500 ubiquitin sites from 16 mg of cell extract. labels: #Cell Line#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#Peptides#Sumoylation#Ubiquitination#Ubiquitins'
b'The presence of monoamines and their cofactors (the pterins and vitamin B6(pyridoxal phosphate (PLP))) in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be used as indicators of the biosynthesis and turnover of dopamine and serotonin in the brain. In addition, abnormalities in the CSF levels of these molecules are associated with various neurological diseases, including genetic diseases leading to dopamine and serotonin deficiency. Here, we provide a set of quantitative high-performance liquid-chromatography (HPLC) approaches to determine CSF levels of monoamines and their cofactors. This protocol describes step-by-step procedures for CSF sample preparation for the analysis of different molecules, HPLC calibration and analysis, and data quantification and interpretation. Unlike plasma/tissue/blood samples, CSF requires minimal sample preparation: in this protocol, only the analysis of PLP requires mixing with trichloroacetic acid to release the protein-bound vitamin, centrifugation, and mixing of the supernatant with phosphate buffer and sodium cyanide for derivatization in alkaline conditions. Monoamines are analyzed by HPLC with coulometric electrochemical detection (ED), pterins are analyzed by HPLC with coupled coulometric electrochemical and fluorescence detection, and PLP is analyzed by HPLC with fluorescence detection. The quantification of all compounds is achieved by external calibration procedures, and internal quality control and standards are analyzed in each run. We anticipate that investigation of dopamine and serotonin disturbances will be facilitated by measurements of these compounds in human CSF and other biological samples. The estimated time for the different procedures primarily depends on the electrochemical detector stabilization. Overnight stabilization of this detector is advised, and, after that step, preanalytical equilibration rarely exceeds 3 h. labels: #Biogenic Monoamines#Calibration#Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Humans#Pterins#Quality Control#Vitamin B 6'
b"Development of resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs is a major challenge in the care of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Acquired resistance to chemotherapeutic agents in PDAC has been linked to a subset of cancer cells termed 'cancer stem cells' (CSCs). Therefore, an improved understanding of the molecular events underlying the development of pancreatic CSCs is required to identify new therapeutic targets to overcome chemoresistance. Accumulating evidence indicates that curcumin, a phenolic compound extracted from turmeric, can overcome de novo chemoresistance and re-sensitize tumors to various chemotherapeutic agents. However, the underlying mechanisms for curcumin-mediated chemosensitization remain unclear. The Enhancer of Zeste Homolog-2 (EZH2) subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) was recently identified as a key player regulating drug resistance. EZH2 mediates interaction with several long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) to modulate epithelial-mesenchymal transition and cancer stemness, phenomena commonly associated with drug resistance. Here, we report the re-sensitization of chemoresistant PDAC cells by curcumin through the inhibition of the PRC2-PVT1-c-Myc axis. Using gemcitabine-resistant PDAC cell lines, we found that curcumin sensitized chemoresistant cancer cells by inhibiting the expression of the PRC2 subunit EZH2 and its related lncRNA PVT1. Curcumin was also found to prevent the formation of spheroids, a hallmark of CSCs, and to down-regulate several self-renewal driving genes. In addition, we confirmed our in vitro findings in a xenograft mouse model where curcumin inhibited gemcitabine-resistant tumor growth. Overall, this study indicates clinical relevance for combining curcumin with chemotherapy to overcome chemoresistance in PDAC. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Cell Line, Tumor#Curcumin#Deoxycytidine#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Mice, Nude#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Pancreatic Neoplasms#RNA, Long Noncoding#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'The yeast 2-\xce\xbcm plasmid is a remarkable genetic parasite, managing efficient maintenance at high-copy number with minimal impact on the host. Equal partitioning of the plasmid upon host cell division requires plasmid proteins Rep1 and Rep2 and the plasmid STB locus. The Rep proteins and the plasmid-encoded Raf protein also regulate plasmid gene transcription. In this study, protein interaction assays, sequence analyses and mutational approaches were used to identify domains and residues in Rep2 and Raf required for association with Rep1 and Rep2 and to delineate the Rep2 DNA-binding domain. Rep2 and Raf displayed similarities in interactions with Rep1 and Rep2, in having Rep1 promote their STB association in vivo, and in stabilizing Rep protein levels. Rep2 mutants impaired for self-association were competent for transcriptional repression while those deficient for Rep1 association were not. Surprisingly, Rep2 mutants impaired for either Rep1 interaction or self-association were able to maintain efficient plasmid inheritance provided Raf was present and competent for Rep protein interaction. Our findings provide insight into the Rep protein complexes required for partitioning and transcriptional repression, and suggest that in addition to its transcriptional function, Raf stabilization of Rep partitioning proteins contributes to the remarkable persistence of the 2-\xce\xbcm plasmid. labels: #Cell Division#Inheritance Patterns#Organisms, Genetically Modified#Plasmids#Protein Binding#Protein Stability#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Trans-Activators#raf Kinases'
b"Ligation-based nucleic acid detection methods are primarily limited to DNA, since they exhibit poor performance on RNA. This is attributed to reduced end-joining efficiency and/or fidelity of ligases. Interestingly, chlorella virus DNA ligase (PBCV-1 DNA ligase) has recently been shown to possess high RNA-templated DNA end-joining activity; however, its fidelity has not yet been systematically evaluated. Herein, we characterized PBCV-1 ligase for its RNA-templated end-joining fidelity at single base mismatches in 3' and 5' DNA probe termini and found an overall limited end-joining fidelity. To improve the specificity in PBCV-1 ligase-driven RNA detection assays, we utilized structure-specific 5' exonucleolytic activity of Thermus aquaticus DNA polymerase, used in the invader assay. In the iLock (invader padLock) probe assay, padlock probe molecules are activated prior ligation thus the base at the probe ligation junction is read twice in order to aid successful DNA ligation: first, during structure-specific invader cleavage and then during sequence-specific DNA ligation. We report two distinct iLock probe activation mechanisms and systematically evaluate the assay specificity, including single nucleotide polymorphisms on RNA, mRNA and miRNA. We show significant increase in PBCV-1 ligation fidelity in the iLock probe assay configuration for RNA detection. labels: #Base Pair Mismatch#Biosensing Techniques#DNA End-Joining Repair#DNA Ligases#DNA Probes#Limit of Detection#MicroRNAs#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#RNA#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sensitivity and Specificity#Substrate Specificity#Templates, Genetic#Viral Proteins"
b"The ready availability of vast amounts of genomic sequence data has created the need to rethink comparative genomics algorithms using 'big data' approaches. Neptune is an efficient system for rapidly locating differentially abundant genomic content in bacterial populations using an exact k-mer matching strategy, while accommodating k-mer mismatches. Neptune's loci discovery process identifies sequences that are sufficiently common to a group of target sequences and sufficiently absent from non-targets using probabilistic models. Neptune uses parallel computing to efficiently identify and extract these loci from draft genome assemblies without requiring multiple sequence alignments or other computationally expensive comparative sequence analyses. Tests on simulated and real datasets showed that Neptune rapidly identifies regions that are both sensitive and specific. We demonstrate that this system can identify trait-specific loci from different bacterial lineages. Neptune is broadly applicable for comparative bacterial analyses, yet will particularly benefit pathogenomic applications, owing to efficient and sensitive discovery of differentially abundant genomic loci. The software is available for download at: http://github.com/phac-nml/neptune. labels: #Bacillus anthracis#Bacteria#Computational Biology#DNA Mutational Analysis#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Genetic Association Studies#Genome, Bacterial#Microbiological Techniques#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Software#Transcriptome#Vibrio cholerae"
b'Community health workers (CHWs) are members of a growing profession in the United States. Studying this dynamic labor force is challenging, in part because its members have more than 100 different job titles. The demand for timely, accurate information about CHWs is increasing as the profession gains recognition for its ability to improve health outcomes and reduce costs. Although numerous surveys of CHWs have been conducted, the field lacks well-delineated methods for gaining access to this hard-to-identify workforce. We outline methods for surveying CHWs and promising approaches to engage the workforce and other stakeholders in conducting local, state, and national studies. We also highlight successful strategies to overcome challenges in CHW surveys and future directions for surveying the field. labels: #Community Health Workers#Humans#Surveys and Questionnaires#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cumulative probability (c) of arrest by age 28 years in the United States by disability status, race/ethnicity, and gender.METHODS: I estimated cumulative probabilities through birth cohort life tables with data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, 1997.RESULTS: Estimates demonstrated that those with disabilities have a higher cumulative probability of arrest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8942.65) than those without (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8929.68). The risk was disproportionately spread across races/ethnicities, with Blacks with disabilities experiencing the highest cumulative probability of arrest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8955.17) and Whites without disabilities experiencing the lowest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8927.55). Racial/ethnic differences existed by gender as well. There was a similar distribution of disability types across race/ethnicity, suggesting that the racial/ethnic differences in arrest may stem from racial/ethnic inequalities as opposed to differential distribution of disability types.CONCLUSIONS: The experience of arrest for those with disabilities was higher than expected. Police officers should understand how disabilities may affect compliance and other behaviors, and likewise how implicit bias and structural racism may affect reactions and actions of officers and the systems they work within in ways that create inequities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Continental Population Groups#Crime#Disabled Persons#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Police#Probability#Public Policy#Role#Sex Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b"More than 3 decades since its emergence in the United States, HIV continues to spread and disproportionately affect socially marginalized groups. Preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a highly effective prevention strategy federally approved since 2012, could fundamentally alter the course of the epidemic. However, PrEP's potential has not been fully realized, in part because health care providers have been slow to adopt PrEP in clinical practice and have been selective in their discussion of PrEP with patients. This nonstandardized approach has constrained PrEP access. PrEP access has not only been inadequate but also inequitable, with several groups in high need showing lower rates of uptake than do their socially privileged counterparts. Recognizing these early warning signs that current approaches to PrEP implementation could exacerbate existing HIV disparities, we call on health professionals to integrate PrEP into routine preventive health care for adult patients-particularly in primary care, reproductive health, and behavioral health settings. Drawing on the empirical literature, we present 4 arguments for why doing so would improve access and access equity, and we conclude that the benefits clearly outweigh the challenges. labels: #Adult#HIV Infections#Health Education#Health Services Accessibility#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Patient-Centered Care#Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis#Preventive Health Services#Social Stigma#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the geographic distribution of scorpion envenomations in the United States by zip code, with particular attention to the neurotoxic Centruroides sculpturatus (Arizona bark scorpion), for which an antivenom is available.METHODS: We obtained scorpion exposure cases for 2010 to 2015 from the National Poison Data System. Using geographic information systems software, we mapped total exposures and incidence rates for 9 states that reported more than 100 annual calls. We also mapped cases that reported fasciculations and nystagmus (unique to C. sculpturatus among native scorpions).RESULTS: The highest exposure incidences occurred in Phoenix (up to 677 per 100\xe2\x80\x89000 population) and Tucson (584), both in Arizona. Elsewhere, high incidences were found in El Paso, Texas (213); Oklahoma City (209) and Tulsa (178), Oklahoma; and Las Vegas, Nevada (170). Fasciculations and nystagmus were reported in Arizona and southeastern Nevada, with small numbers in surrounding states, including Utah.CONCLUSIONS: Scorpion exposures occurred at baseline rates throughout many of the southern states, whereas several states reported effects indicative of Arizona bark scorpion envenomation. Public Health Implications. Public and health care provider education, as well as the stocking of antivenom, should be targeted based on these findings. labels: #Antivenins#Bites and Stings#Geographic Information Systems#Health Education#Humans#Incidence#Scorpion Venoms#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the frequency of loaded handgun carrying among US adult handgun owners, characterize those who carry, and examine concealed carrying by state concealed carry laws.METHODS: Using a nationally representative survey of US adults in 2015, we asked handgun owners (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891444) about their past-30-day carrying behavior.RESULTS: Among surveyed handgun owners, 24% (95% confidence interval[CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8921%, 26%) carried loaded handguns monthly, of whom 35% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8929%, 41%) did so daily; 82% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8977%, 86%) carried primarily for protection. The proportion of handgun owners who carried concealed loaded handguns in the past 30 days was 21% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8912%, 35%) in unrestricted states, 25% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8921%, 29%) in shall issue-no discretion states, 20% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8916%, 24%) in shall issue-limited discretion states, and 9% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x896%, 15%) in may-issue states.CONCLUSIONS: We estimate that 9 million US adult handgun owners carry loaded handguns monthly, 3 million do so every day, and most report protection as the main carrying reason. Proportionally fewer handgun owners carry concealed loaded handguns in states that allow issuing authorities substantial discretion in granting carrying permits. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Firearms#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ownership#Politics#Public Policy#Safety#United States#Young Adult'
b'The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of pseudoexfoliation syndrome\nand pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and to evaluate its association with open-angle glaucoma inpatients attending the Department of Ophthalmology, Dr Tomislav Bardek General Hospital in Koprivnica,\nnorthwestern Croatia. This prospective study was conducted at Dr Tomislav Bardek GeneralHospital between December 2012 and October 2013. A total of 5349 subjects aged 40 or above\npresenting for general ophthalmic examination were screened for pseudoexfoliation syndrome andpseudoexfoliation glaucoma. Each patient underwent complete ophthalmologic examination including\nocular history, visual acuity testing, slit-lamp examination, applanation tonometry, optic disc evaluation,visual field analysis, and gonioscopy if glaucoma was suspected. Exclusion criteria were pseudophakic\nand/or aphakic patients of any age, patients with concomitant congenital eye disease, andpatients with very dense ocular media opacities. Out of 5349 patients examined, there were 1994\n(38.38%) males and 3201 (61.61%) females. The prevalence of pseudoexfoliation syndrome was 3.6%and primary open angle glaucoma 9.4%, out of which 23.6% with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. The\nfindings of this study improve our knowledge of pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliationglaucoma in Croatia, particularly in the northwest region. labels: #Age Distribution#Aged#Croatia#Exfoliation Syndrome#Female#Glaucoma#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sex Distribution#Visual Fields'
b'There is limited evidence showing that elevated arterial blood pressure in surgical\npatients may be associated with increased perioperative risk; however, cardiovascular instability frequentlyoccurs during anesthesia. The most commonly used anesthetic agents, both intravenous and\ninhalation ones, produce a decrease in arterial blood pressure. Magnesium, acting as a natural calcium-channelblocker, induces direct and indirect vasodilatation, thus playing a role in the treatment of arterial\nhypertension. In this research, we assessed the effects of magnesium sulfate on cardiovascularstability in patients undergoing diverse planned surgical procedures (abdominal, orthopedic, urology)\nunder general balanced anesthesia, who were diagnosed with arterial hypertension grade 1 and 2. Theresearch encompassed 100 patients of both sexes, aged from 20 to 65. Immediately before induction\nof anesthesia with propofol, the patients in the experimental group (50 study subjects) received 30 mg/kg bolus dose and magnesium sulfate infusion at 10 mg/kg/h, whereas the subjects in the control\ngroup (50 patients) were administered normal saline. Anesthesia was achieved and maintained withsevoflurane, fentanyl and rocuronium. The hemodynamic variables of mean arterial pressure and heart\nrate were measured every five minutes, starting immediately before magnesium infusion. Statisticalanalysis of the categorized values of mean arterial pressure and heart rate revealed a statistically significant between-group \ndifference at 60th and 90th minute of anesthesia. In conclusion, magnesiumsulfate as an adjuvant to anesthesia in patients with arterial hypertension reduces hemodynamic\nchanges during anesthesia. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia#Anesthesiology#Anesthetics, Combined#Blood Pressure#Double-Blind Method#Female#Heart Rate#Hemodynamics#Humans#Hypertension#Magnesium Sulfate#Male#Middle Aged#Surgical Procedures, Operative'
b'Obstructive hydrocephalus is a relatively common complication of intraventricular\nhemorrhage resulting in high morbidity and mortality. We report two cases of transient obstructivehydrocephalus caused by obstruction of mesencephalic duct in patients that presented with altered\nconsciousness which resolved spontaneously in a few hours. In very rare cases, obstructive hydrocephalusdue to intraventricular hemorrhage may be transient and does not need neurosurgical or\ninvasive procedures for lowering raised intracranial pressure, which otherwise are currently preferredtreatment options. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Hydrocephalus#Intracranial Hemorrhages#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Male#Tissue Plasminogen Activator'
b'Occurrence of bilateral pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous\nemphysema during gynecologic laparoscopic procedure is very rare. We report a case of a 23-year-oldwoman who developed bilateral pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous emphysema\nduring laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. Carbon dioxide extravasations outside the peritoneal cavityduring laparoscopy may have fatal consequences. Careful monitoring, immediate diagnosis and proper\ntreatment are crucial for patient safety. labels: #Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ovarian Cysts#Pneumothorax#Subcutaneous Emphysema#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'Botryoid cyst, a rare type of odontogenic cyst, is usually considered a multilocular\nvariant of lateral periodontal cyst. It was first described in 1973, and up to the present less than ahundred cases have been reported in the literature. Botryoid cysts are characterized by a multilocular\nhistologic finding and a higher risk of recurrence than lateral periodontal cysts. In this article, we presenta case of botryoid cyst from our clinical practice, accompanied by literature review of previous\ncases reported in the literature so far. Study results showed that botryoid cysts mostly affected populationin their fifties, with a slight female (53.5%) predominance over males (46.5%). The mandible was\nthe most frequently affected region, accounting for 70 (83.3%) cases. Maxilla was only sporadicallyaffected accounting for 14 (16.7%) cases. Radiographic appearance of botryoid cysts can be multilocular\nor unilocular. It is concluded that the recurrence rate is relatively high (30.1%), therefore longterm follow up is needed. labels: #Adult#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Jaw Diseases#Male#Mandibular Diseases#Middle Aged#Odontogenic Cysts'
b'BACKGROUND: The Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program penalizes hospitals that have high 30-day readmission rates across specific conditions. There is support for changing to a hospital-wide readmission measure to broaden hospital eligibility and provide incentives for improvement across more conditions.METHODS: We used Medicare claims from 2011 through 2013 to evaluate the number of hospitals that were eligible for penalties, in that they met a volume threshold of 25 admissions over a 3-year period for a specific condition or 25 admissions over a 1-year period for the cohorts included in the hospital-wide measure. We estimated the expected effects that changing from the condition-specific readmission measures to a hospital-wide measure would have on average penalties for safety-net hospitals (i.e., hospitals that treat a large proportion of low-income patients) and other hospitals.RESULTS: Our sample included 6,807,899 admissions for the hospital-wide measure and 4,392,658 admissions for the condition-specific measures. Of 3443 hospitals, 688 were considered to be safety-net hospitals. Changing to the hospital-wide measure would result in 76 more hospitals being eligible to receive penalties. The hospital-wide measure would increase penalties (mean [\xc2\xb1SE] Medicare payment reductions across all hospitals) from 0.42\xc2\xb10.01% to 0.89\xc2\xb10.01% of Medicare base diagnosis-related-group payments. It would also increase the disparity in penalties between safety-net hospitals and other hospitals from -0.03\xc2\xb10.02 to 0.41\xc2\xb10.06 percentage points.CONCLUSIONS: A transition to a hospital-wide readmission measure would only modestly increase the number of hospitals eligible for penalties and would substantially increase the penalties for safety-net hospitals. labels: #Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Economics, Hospital#Hospitals#Medicare#Patient Readmission#Reimbursement, Incentive#Safety-net Providers#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor that is under investigation for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. We evaluated tofacitinib in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who had previously had an inadequate response to tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors.METHODS: In this 6-month randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned 395 patients, in a 2:2:1:1 ratio, to four regimens: 5 mg of tofacitinib administered orally twice daily (132 patients); 10 mg of tofacitinib twice daily (132 patients); placebo, with a switch to 5 mg of tofacitinib twice daily at 3 months (66 patients); or placebo, with a switch to 10 mg of tofacitinib twice daily at 3 months (65 patients). Data from the patients who received placebo during the first 3 months of the trial were pooled. The primary end points were the percentage of patients who had at least 20% improvement according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR20 response) and the change from baseline score on the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI; scores range from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating greater disability) at the month 3 analysis.RESULTS: At 3 months, the rates of ACR20 response were 50% with the 5-mg dose of tofacitinib and 47% with the 10-mg dose, as compared with 24% with placebo (P<0.001 for both comparisons); the corresponding mean changes from baseline in HAQ-DI score were -0.39 and -0.35, as compared with -0.14 (P<0.001 for both comparisons). Serious adverse events occurred in 4% of the patients who received the 5-mg dose of tofacitinib continuously and in 6% who received the 10-mg dose continuously. Over the course of 6 months, there were four serious infections, three herpes zoster infections, one myocardial infarction, and one ischemic stroke among the patients who received tofacitinib continuously. Elevations of aspartate and alanine aminotransferase concentrations of three or more times the upper limit of the normal range occurred in more patients who received tofacitinib continuously than in patients who received placebo followed by tofacitinib.CONCLUSIONS: In this trial involving patients with active psoriatic arthritis who had had an inadequate response to TNF inhibitors, tofacitinib was more effective than placebo over 3 months in reducing disease activity. Adverse events were more frequent with tofacitinib than with placebo. (Funded by Pfizer; OPAL Beyond ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01882439 .). labels: #Administration, Oral#Adult#Alanine Transaminase#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Psoriatic#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Disability Evaluation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Janus Kinases#Male#Middle Aged#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Pyrroles#Treatment Failure#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor that is under investigation for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. We evaluated tofacitinib in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who previously had an inadequate response to conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs).METHODS: In this 12-month, double-blind, active-controlled and placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned patients in a 2:2:2:1:1 ratio to receive one of the following regimens: tofacitinib at a 5-mg dose taken orally twice daily (107 patients), tofacitinib at a 10-mg dose taken orally twice daily (104), adalimumab at a 40-mg dose administered subcutaneously once every 2 weeks (106), placebo with a blinded switch to the 5-mg tofacitinib dose at 3 months (52), or placebo with a blinded switch to the 10-mg tofacitinib dose at 3 months (53). Placebo groups were pooled for analyses up to month 3. Primary end points were the proportion of patients who had an American College of Rheumatology 20 (ACR20) response (\xe2\x89\xa520% improvement from baseline in the number of tender and swollen joints and at least three of five other important domains) at month 3 and the change from baseline in the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI) score (scores range from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating greater disability) at month 3.RESULTS: ACR20 response rates at month 3 were 50% in the 5-mg tofacitinib group and 61% in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, as compared with 33% in the placebo group (P=0.01 for the comparison of the 5-mg dose with placebo; P<0.001 for the comparison of the 10-mg dose with placebo); the rate was 52% in the adalimumab group. The mean change in the HAQ-DI score was -0.35 in the 5-mg tofacitinib group and -0.40 in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, as compared with -0.18 in the placebo group (P=0.006 for the comparison of the 5-mg dose with placebo; P<0.001 for the comparison of the 10-mg dose with placebo); the score change was -0.38 in the adalimumab group. The rate of adverse events through month 12 was 66% in the 5-mg tofacitinib group, 71% in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, 72% in the adalimumab group, 69% in the placebo group that switched to the 5-mg tofacitinib dose, and 64% in the placebo group that switched to the 10-mg tofacitinib dose. There were four cases of cancer, three serious infections, and four cases of herpes zoster in patients who received tofacitinib during the trial.CONCLUSIONS: The efficacy of tofacitinib was superior to that of placebo at month 3 in patients with psoriatic arthritis who had previously had an inadequate response to conventional synthetic DMARDs. Adverse events were more frequent with tofacitinib than with placebo. (Funded by Pfizer; OPAL Broaden ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01877668 .). labels: #Adalimumab#Administration, Oral#Adult#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Psoriatic#Disability Evaluation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Janus Kinases#Male#Middle Aged#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Pyrroles'
b'In an effort to improve the technical success rates and clinical outcomes of radiofrequency (RF) ablation, Yan et al validated the use of a tumor-penetrating peptide and thermosensitive doxorubicin (DOX)-loaded nanoparticles in combination with RF ablation in a hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. By achieving higher chemotherapeutic drug concentrations in target lesions, fewer toxic effects, and improved survival end points in an animal tumor model, the authors conclude that superior tumor treatment with RF ablation is possible when combined with molecular-targeted drug delivery systems. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Catheter Ablation#Doxorubicin#Drug Carriers#Liver Neoplasms, Experimental#Mice#Molecular Imaging#Nanoparticles#Peptides#Theranostic Nanomedicine'
b'History A 34-year-old man without underlying medical conditions came to the emergency department for evaluation of persistent pain over the volar portion of his right fifth finger after a fall during a football match 3 days before. At physical examination, the injured finger was swollen and purple. Passive and active flexion of the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints were compromised, without interphalangeal instability. Radiography was performed in the emergency department, and the patient was released with a diagnosis of a fifth digit sprain. After the senior radiologist (V.M.C.) reviewed the radiographs, the patient was called back for assessment with ultrasonography (US) on the same day. US was performed with an Aplio 500 unit (Toshiba Medical Systems, Tokyo, Japan) using a multifrequency linear array 7.2-18.0-MHz PLT-1204BX transducer focused at the level of the flexor tendon. The patient was sitting in front of the examiner, with the hand lying palm up on the examination bed. No abnormality was observed during color Doppler US. labels: #Adult#Finger Injuries#Finger Joint#Fingers#Humans#Male'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to determine if the pattern of monthly medical expense can be used to identify individuals at risk of dying, thus supporting providers in proactively engaging in advanced care planning discussions.BACKGROUND: Identifying the right time to discuss end of life can be difficult. Improved predictive capacity has made it possible for nurse leaders to use large data sets to guide clinical decision making.METHODS: We examined the patterns of monthly medical expense of Medicare beneficiaries with life-limiting illness during the last 24 months of life using analysis of variance, t tests, and stepwise hierarchical linear modeling.RESULTS: In the final year of life, monthly medical expense increases rapidly for all disease groupings and forms distinct patterns of change.CONCLUSION: Type of condition can be used to classify decedents into distinctly different cost trajectories. Conditions including chronic disease, system failure, or cancer may be used to identify patients who may benefit from supportive care. labels: #Advance Care Planning#Aged#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Chronic Disease#Communication#Costs and Cost Analysis#Electronic Health Records#Hospice Care#Humans#Meaningful Use#Physician-Patient Relations#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Terminally Ill#United States#Unnecessary Procedures'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aims of the project are to increase knowledge related to opioids and improve adherence to evidence-based interventions for sedation monitoring and assessment in adult inpatients receiving opioids for pain through delivery of an interprofessional online program.BACKGROUND: Preventable opioid-induced respiratory depression is a patient safety risk in hospitals. Sedation and respiratory assessment and monitoring guidelines and tools are available to improve practice.METHODS: An interprofessional team identified organization-specific drivers of opioid-induced sedation and respiratory depression using process improvement methodology, developed interventions, and evaluated clinician opioid knowledge and documentation practice.RESULTS: Opioid knowledge survey responses improved after the interventions. Audits showing improved appropriate documentation by RNs of the correct sedation scale were performed over 2 separate 3-month periods.CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians demonstrated increased knowledge about newly adopted sedation and monitoring practices targeted to prevent opioid-induced respiratory depression. labels: #Adult#Analgesics, Opioid#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Monitoring, Physiologic#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Pain Management#Patient Safety#Respiratory Insufficiency#Risk Assessment'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and incremental net cost of a fall prevention intervention that involved hourly rounding by RNs at 2 hospitals.BACKGROUND: Minimizing in-hospital falls is a priority, but little is known about the value of fall prevention interventions.METHODS: We used an uncontrolled before-after design to evaluate changes in fall rates and time use by RNs. Using decision-analytical models, we estimated incremental net costs per hospital per year.RESULTS: Falls declined at 1 hospital (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 0.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.26-0.87; P = .016), but not the other (IRR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.59-1.17; P = .28). Cost analyses projected a 67.9% to 72.2% probability of net savings at both hospitals due to unexpected declines in the time that RNs spent in fall-related activities.CONCLUSIONS: Incorporating fall prevention into hourly rounds might improve value. Time that RNs invest in implementing quality improvement interventions can equate to sizable opportunity costs or savings. labels: #Accidental Falls#California#Costs and Cost Analysis#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Models, Economic#Monte Carlo Method#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Safety Management#Time Factors'
b'Although a plurality of drugs target G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), most have emerged from classical medicinal chemistry and pharmacology programs and resemble one another structurally and functionally. Though effective, these drugs are often promiscuous. With the realization that GPCRs signal via multiple pathways, and with the emergence of crystal structures for this family of proteins, there is an opportunity to target GPCRs with new chemotypes and confer new signaling modalities. We consider structure-based and physical screening methods that have led to the discovery of new reagents, focusing particularly on the former. We illustrate their use against previously untargeted or orphan GPCRs, against allosteric sites, and against classical orthosteric sites that selectively activate one downstream pathway over others. The ligands that emerge are often chemically novel, which can lead to new biological effects. labels: #Allosteric Regulation#Allosteric Site#Drug Design#Drug Discovery#Humans#Ligands#Molecular Docking Simulation#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Signal Transduction'
b'Fundamental to biological decision-making is the ability to generate bimodal expression patterns where 2 alternate expression states simultaneously exist. Here, we use a combination of single-cell analysis and mathematical modeling to examine the sources of bimodality in the transcriptional program controlling HIV\'s fate decision between active replication and viral latency. We find that the HIV transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein manipulates the intrinsic toggling of HIV\'s promoter, the long terminal repeat (LTR), to generate bimodal ON-OFF expression and that transcriptional positive feedback from Tat shifts and expands the regime of LTR bimodality. This result holds for both minimal synthetic viral circuits and full-length virus. Strikingly, computational analysis indicates that the Tat circuit\'s noncooperative "nonlatching" feedback architecture is optimized to slow the promoter\'s toggling and generate bimodality by stochastic extinction of Tat. In contrast to the standard Poisson model, theory and experiment show that nonlatching positive feedback substantially dampens the inverse noise-mean relationship to maintain stochastic bimodality despite increasing mean expression levels. Given the rapid evolution of HIV, the presence of a circuit optimized to robustly generate bimodal expression appears consistent with the hypothesis that HIV\'s decision between active replication and latency provides a viral fitness advantage. More broadly, the results suggest that positive-feedback circuits may have evolved not only for signal amplification but also for robustly generating bimodality by decoupling expression fluctuations (noise) from mean expression levels. labels: #Algorithms#Feedback, Physiological#Flow Cytometry#Gene Expression Regulation, Viral#Green Fluorescent Proteins#HEK293 Cells#HIV Infections#HIV Long Terminal Repeat#HIV-1#Humans#Jurkat Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Genetic#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Single-Cell Analysis#Stochastic Processes#Transcription, Genetic#Virus Latency#tat Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus'
b'Accurate gene or protein function prediction is a key challenge in the post-genome era. Most current methods perform well on molecular function prediction, but struggle to provide useful annotations relating to biological process functions due to the limited power of sequence-based features in that functional domain. In this work, we systematically evaluate the predictive power of temporal transcription expression profiles for protein function prediction in Drosophila melanogaster. Our results show significantly better performance on predicting protein function when transcription expression profile-based features are integrated with sequence-derived features, compared with the sequence-derived features alone. We also observe that the combination of expression-based and sequence-based features leads to further improvement of accuracy on predicting all three domains of gene function. Based on the optimal feature combinations, we then propose a novel multi-classifier-based function prediction method for Drosophila melanogaster proteins, FFPred-fly+. Interpreting our machine learning models also allows us to identify some of the underlying links between biological processes and developmental stages of Drosophila melanogaster. labels: #Animals#Cluster Analysis#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Gene Expression Profiling#Models, Statistical#Phenotype#Transcriptome'
b'Aedes albopictus is a highly invasive disease vector with an expanding worldwide distribution. Genetic assays using low to medium resolution markers have found little evidence of spatial genetic structure even at broad geographic scales, suggesting frequent passive movement along human transportation networks. Here we analysed genetic structure of Aedes albopictus collected from 12 sample sites in Guangzhou, China, using thousands of genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We found evidence for passive gene flow, with distance from shipping terminals being the strongest predictor of genetic distance among mosquitoes. As further evidence of passive dispersal, we found multiple pairs of full-siblings distributed between two sample sites 3.7 km apart. After accounting for geographical variability, we also found evidence for isolation by distance, previously undetectable in Ae. albopictus. These findings demonstrate how large SNP datasets and spatially-explicit hypothesis testing can be used to decipher processes at finer geographic scales than formerly possible. Our approach can be used to help predict new invasion pathways of Ae. albopictus and to refine strategies for vector control that involve the transformation or suppression of mosquito populations. labels: #Aedes#Animals#China#Cities#Gene Flow#Genome, Insect#Genome-Wide Association Study#Mosquito Vectors#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide'
b'While the ultimate consequences of social bonds start to be better understood, the proximate behavioural mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of these close affiliative relationships have received less attention. We investigated the possible function of male-infant-male interactions (MIMIs) in male-male social bonding processes by analysing about 9000h of focal animal observations collected on two groups of wild Assamese macaques. In support of an agonistic buffering function of MIMIs, after engaging in a MIMI upon approach, subordinates stayed longer in close proximity of a dominant male. Overall, the frequency of MIMIs increased the stronger the affiliative relationship between two males, suggesting that MIMIs like grooming function in relationship maintenance. We did not find support for a role of MIMIs in bond formation as the frequency of MIMIs did not affect the time a male dyad spent in proximity in the consecutive year. Our results contribute to the general debate on behaviours influencing social dynamics in group living mammals. labels: #Animals#Behavior, Animal#Female#Linear Models#Macaca#Male#Social Behavior#Time Factors'
b'Here we introduce a new assessment of emotion regulation called the Mentalized Affectivity Scale (MAS). A large online adult sample (N = 2,840) completed the 60-item MAS along with a battery of psychological measures. Results revealed a robust three-component structure underlying mentalized affectivity, which we labeled: Identifying emotions (the ability to identify emotions and to reflect on the factors that influence them); Processing emotions (the ability to modulate and distinguish complex emotions); and Expressing emotions (the tendency to express emotions outwardly or inwardly). Hierarchical modeling suggested that Processing emotions delineates from Identifying them, and Expressing emotions delineates from Processing them. We then showed how these components are associated with personality traits, well-being, trauma, and 18 different psychological disorders (including mood, neurological, and personality disorders). Notably, those with anxiety, mood, and personality disorders showed a profile of high Identifying and low Processing compared to controls. Further, results showed how mentalized affectivity scores varied across psychological treatment modalities and years spent in therapy. Taken together, the model of mentalized affectivity advances prior theory and research on emotion regulation and the MAS is a useful and reliable instrument that can be used in both clinical and non-clinical settings in psychology, psychiatry, and neuroscience. labels: #Adult#Affect#Demography#Empathy#Female#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Models, Psychological#Principal Component Analysis#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Important control efforts have led to a significant reduction of the prevalence of human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) in C\xc3\xb4te d\'Ivoire, but the disease is still present in several foci. The existence of an animal reservoir of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense may explain disease persistence in these foci where animal breeding is an important source of income but where the prevalence of animal African trypanosomiasis (AAT) is unknown. The aim of this study was to identify the trypanosome species circulating in domestic animals in both Bonon and Sinfra HAT endemic foci.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: 552 domestic animals (goats, pigs, cattle and sheep) were included. Blood samples were tested for trypanosomes by microscopic observation, species-specific PCR for T. brucei sl, T. congolense, T. vivax and subspecies-specific PCR for T. b. gambiense and T. b. gambiense immune trypanolysis (TL). Infection rates varied significantly between animal species and were by far the highest in pigs (30%). T. brucei s.l was the most prevalent trypanosome species (13.7%) followed by T. congolense. No T. b. gambiense was identified by PCR while high TL positivity rates were observed using T. b. gambiense specific variants (up to 27.6% for pigs in the Bonon focus).CONCLUSION: This study shows that domestic animals are highly infected by trypanosomes in the studied foci. This was particularly true for pigs, possibly due to a higher exposure of these animals to tsetse flies. Whereas T. brucei s.l. was the most prevalent species, discordant results were obtained between PCR and TL regarding T. b. gambiense identification. It is therefore crucial to develop better tools to study the epidemiological role of potential animal reservoir for T. b. gambiense. Our study illustrates the importance of "one health" approaches to reach HAT elimination and contribute to AAT control in the studied foci. labels: #Animals#Cattle#Cattle Diseases#Cote d\'Ivoire#Disease Reservoirs#Humans#Swine#Swine Diseases#Trypanosoma brucei gambiense#Trypanosomiasis, African'
b'Small-angle X-ray scattering is an increasingly popular technique used to detect protein structures and ensembles in solution. However, the refinement of structures and ensembles against SAXS data is often ambiguous due to the low information content of SAXS data, unknown systematic errors, and unknown scattering contributions from the solvent. We offer a solution to such problems by combining Bayesian inference with all-atom molecular dynamics simulations and explicit-solvent SAXS calculations. The Bayesian formulation correctly weights the SAXS data versus prior physical knowledge, it quantifies the precision or ambiguity of fitted structures and ensembles, and it accounts for unknown systematic errors due to poor buffer matching. The method further provides a probabilistic criterion for identifying the number of states required to explain the SAXS data. The method is validated by refining ensembles of a periplasmic binding protein against calculated SAXS curves. Subsequently, we derive the solution ensembles of the eukaryotic chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) against experimental SAXS data. We find that the SAXS data of the apo state of Hsp90 is compatible with a single wide-open conformation, whereas the SAXS data of Hsp90 bound to ATP or to an ATP-analogue strongly suggest heterogenous ensembles of a closed and a wide-open state. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Computational Biology#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Protein Conformation#Proteins#Scattering, Small Angle#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'BACKGROUND: Due to the high burden of dengue disease worldwide, a better understanding of the interactions between dengue virus (DENV) and its human host cells is of the utmost importance. Although microRNAs modulate the outcome of several viral infections, their contribution to DENV replication is poorly understood.METHODS AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We investigated the microRNA expression profile of primary human macrophages challenged with DENV and deciphered the contribution of microRNAs to infection. To this end, human primary macrophages were challenged with GFP-expressing DENV and sorted to differentiate between truly infected cells (DENV-positive) and DENV-exposed but non-infected cells (DENV-negative cells). The miRNAome was determined by small RNA-Seq analysis and the effect of differentially expressed microRNAs on DENV yield was examined. Five microRNAs were differentially expressed in human macrophages challenged with DENV. Of these, miR-3614-5p was found upregulated in DENV-negative cells and its overexpression reduced DENV infectivity. The cellular targets of miR-3614-5p were identified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and western blot. Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1 (ADAR1) was identified as one of the targets of miR-3614-5p and was shown to promote DENV infectivity at early time points post-infection.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Overall, miRNAs appear to play a limited role in DENV replication in primary human macrophages. The miRNAs that were found upregulated in DENV-infected cells did not control the production of infectious virus particles. On the other hand, miR-3614-5p, which was upregulated in DENV-negative macrophages, reduced DENV infectivity and regulated ADAR1 expression, a protein that facilitates viral replication. labels: #Adenosine Deaminase#Dengue Virus#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Macrophages#MicroRNAs#RNA-Binding Proteins#Transcriptome#Virus Replication'
b"Partner dance has been shown to be beneficial for the health of older adults. Robots could potentially facilitate healthy aging by engaging older adults in partner dance-based exercise. However, partner dance involves physical contact between the dancers, and older adults would need to be accepting of partner dancing with a robot. Using methods from the technology acceptance literature, we conducted a study with 16 healthy older adults to investigate their acceptance of robots for partner dance-based exercise. Participants successfully led a human-scale wheeled robot with arms (i.e., a mobile manipulator) in a simple, which we refer to as the Partnered Stepping Task (PST). Participants led the robot by maintaining physical contact and applying forces to the robot's end effectors. According to questionnaires, participants were generally accepting of the robot for partner dance-based exercise, tending to perceive it as useful, easy to use, and enjoyable. Participants tended to perceive the robot as easier to use after performing the PST with it. Through a qualitative data analysis of structured interview data, we also identified facilitators and barriers to acceptance of robots for partner dance-based exercise. Throughout the study, our robot used admittance control to successfully dance with older adults, demonstrating the feasibility of this method. Overall, our results suggest that robots could successfully engage older adults in partner dance-based exercise. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomechanical Phenomena#Dancing#Demography#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Motivation#Robotics#Surveys and Questionnaires#Technology"
b'In Italy, at present, a well-known problem is inhomogeneous provision of rehabilitative services, as stressed by MoH, requiring appropriate criteria and parameters to plan rehabilitation actions. According to the Italian National Rehabilitation Plan, Comorbidity, Disability and Clinical Complexity should be assessed to define the patient\'s real needs. However, to date, clinical complexity is still difficult to measure with shared and validated tools. The study aims to psychometrically validate the Italian Rehabilitation Complexity Scale-Extended v13 (RCS-E v13), in order to meet the guidelines requirements. An observational multicentre prospective cohort study, involving 8 intensive rehabilitation facilities of the Emilia-Romagna Region and 1712 in-patients, [823 male (48%) and 889 female (52%), mean age 68.34 years (95% CI 67.69-69.00 years)] showing neurological, orthopaedic and cardiological problems, was carried out. The construct and concurrent validity of the RCS-E v13 was confirmed through its correlation to Barthel Index (disability) and Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (comorbidity) and appropriate admission criteria (not yet published), respectively. Furthermore, the factor analysis indicated two different components ("Basic Care or Risk-Equipment" and "Medical-Nursing Needs and Therapy Disciplines") of the RCS-E v13. In conclusion, the Italian RCS-E v13 appears to be a useful tool to assess clinical complexity in the Italian rehab scenario case-mix and its psychometric validation may have an important clinical rehabilitation impact allowing the assessment of the rehabilitation needs considering all three dimensions (disability, comorbidity and clinical complexity) as required by the Guidelines and the inhomogeneity could be reduced. labels: #Aged#Demography#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Female#Humans#Italy#Male#Principal Component Analysis#Psychometrics#Rehabilitation#Reproducibility of Results#Statistics, Nonparametric#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b"Mating-induced sexual inhibition has been studied extensively as an important facet of many insect mating systems but remains little understood in spiders. Once mated, females of many spider species become unreceptive and aggressive toward males, but the speed of onset and persistence of this effect are not known. Addressing this gap, the present study considers (1) mating tendency of virgins, latency to remating, and lifetime mating frequency and (2) how quickly sexual inhibition is expressed after the first mating in female Servaea incana jumping spiders. Encounters between males and females took place in two contexts that simulated locations where mating occurs in nature: in the light away from nests ('in the open') and in low light within the shelter of silken retreats ('at a retreat'). Virgin females exhibited high receptivity levels in both contexts but sexual inhibition was induced immediately after their first copulation. The most common tendency was for just one mating in a lifetime, and few females mated more than twice. Context also had an effect on female mating tendency, as virgin females in the open rejected more males before accepting their first mate than did virgin females in retreats. Considering only those females that did remate, females in the open tended to reject fewer males before remating. Given low levels of female remating, virgin females appear to be at a premium for male reproductive fitness in S. incana jumping spiders and this is a likely explanation for protandry found in nature. labels: #Animals#Female#Locomotion#Male#Sexual Behavior, Animal#Spiders#Time Factors"
b"Biological sex differences affect the course of HIV infection, with untreated women having lower viral loads compared to their male counterparts but, for a given viral load, women have a higher rate of progression to AIDS. However, the vast majority of data on viral evolution, a process that is clearly impacted by host immunity and could be impacted by sex differences, has been derived from men. We conducted an intensive analysis of HIV-1 gag and env-gp120 evolution taken over the first 6-11 years of infection from 8 Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) participants who had not received combination antiretroviral therapy (ART). This was compared to similar data previously collected from men, with both groups infected with HIV-1 subtype B. Early virus populations in men and women were generally homogenous with no differences in diversity between sexes. No differences in ensuing nucleotide substitution rates were found between the female and male cohorts studied herein. As previously reported for men, time to peak diversity in env-gp120 in women was positively associated with time to CD4+ cell count below 200 (P = 0.017), and the number of predicted N-linked glycosylation sites generally increased over time, followed by a plateau or decline, with the majority of changes localized to the V1-V2 region. These findings strongly suggest that the sex differences in HIV-1 disease progression attributed to immune system composition and sensitivities are not revealed by, nor do they impact, global patterns of viral evolution, the latter of which proceeds similarly in women and men. labels: #Cohort Studies#Disease Progression#Evolution, Molecular#Female#Glycosylation#HIV Envelope Protein gp120#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Likelihood Functions#Male#Nucleotides#Phylogeny#Sex Characteristics#Time Factors#gag Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus"
b'This study identifies and analyzes statistically significant overlaps between selective sweep screens in anatomically modern humans and several domesticated species. The results obtained suggest that (paleo-)genomic data can be exploited to complement the fossil record and support the idea of self-domestication in Homo sapiens, a process that likely intensified as our species populated its niche. Our analysis lends support to attempts to capture the "domestication syndrome" in terms of alterations to certain signaling pathways and cell lineages, such as the neural crest. labels: #Alleles#Animals#Domestication#Gene Expression Profiling#Genomics#Hominidae#Humans#Selection, Genetic#Species Specificity#Synteny'
b'Very narrow and pure silver nanoparticles were synthesized by modified thermal treatment method via oxygen and nitrogen flow in succession. The structural and optical properties of the calcined silver nanoparticles at 600\xc2\xb0C with diverse Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations varied from 2% to 4% were studied by means of different techniques. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy was used to monitor the production of pure Ag nanoparticles at a given Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentration. The X-ray powder diffraction spectra are evidence for the transformation of the amorphous sample at 30\xc2\xb0C to the cubic crystalline nanostructures at the calcination temperatures for all Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations. The transmission electron microscopy images showed the creation of spherical silver nanoparticles with the average particle size decreased by increasing Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations from 4.61 nm at 2% to 2.49 nm at 4% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone). The optical properties were investigated by means of UV-vis absorption spectrophotometer, which showed an increase in the conduction band of Ag nanoparticles with increasing Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations from 2.83 eV at 2% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) to 2.94 eV at 4% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) due to decreasing particle size. This was due to less attraction between conduction electrons and metal ions for smaller particle size corresponding to fewer atoms that made up the metal nanoparticles. labels: #Metal Nanoparticles#Nanotechnology#Optical Phenomena#Particle Size#Povidone#Powders#Silver#Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet#Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared#Temperature#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'A computer model was used to simulate the dependence of protonmotive force (\xce\x94p), proton leak and phenomenological (involving proton leak) ATP/O2 ratio on work intensity in skeletal muscle. \xce\x94p, NADH and proton leak decreased with work intensity. The contribution of proton leak to oxygen consumption ([Formula: see text]) decreased from about 60% at rest to about 3 and 1% at moderate and heavy/severe exercise, respectively, while the ATP/O2 ratio increased from 2.1 to 5.5 and 5.7. A two-fold increase in proton leak activity or its decrease to zero decreased/increased the ATP/O2 ratio by only about 3 and 1% during moderate and heavy/severe exercise, respectively. The low contribution of proton leak to [Formula: see text]in intensively working skeletal muscle was mostly caused by a huge increase in ATP usage intensity during rest-to-work transition, while OXPHOS, and thus oxidative ATP supply and [Formula: see text] related to it, was mostly stimulated by high each-step activation (ESA) of OXPHOS complexes. The contribution of proton leak to [Formula: see text]and ATP/O2 ratio in isolated mitochondria should not be directly extrapolated to working muscle, as mitochondria lack ESA, at least in the absence of Ca2+, and therefore [Formula: see text] cannot be elevated as much as in intact muscle. labels: #Adenosine Diphosphate#Adenosine Triphosphate#Exercise#Humans#Muscle, Skeletal#Oxygen Consumption#Proton-Motive Force#Protons#Rest'
b'The morphology and the drug sensitivity of the strain GYX2014-1 isolated from the hepatic pancreatic tissue of moribund Litopenaeus vannamei were evaluated by conventional culture characteristics, physical and chemical characteristics, and molecular biology methods. Detection of extracellulase and hemolysin activity shows that the isolated GYX2014-1 has protease, lipase, gelatinase activity, but none of amylase, or lecithinase activity. The 16S rRNA gene (GenBank accession number: KT781675) was analyzed, and a phylogenetic tree analysis showed that the isolated pathogen was most closely related to V. vulnificus (GenBank accession number: NR 118570)-a match of more than 99%. The phenotypic traits and molecular biology of isolated bacteria, determined their identity as Vibrio vulnificus (V. vulnificus). In addition, artificially infected L. vannamei with Vibrio vulnificus appeared with the same disease symptoms as those of naturally infected shrimp. Drug sensitivity tests showed that V. vulnificus is highly sensitive to fosfomycin, cefradine and sinomin, and was resistant to penicillin, amikacin and kanamycin. This experiment is the first to separate V. vulnificus from L. vannamei, and the findings of this study can be used as a reference for disease control and health management. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Colony Count, Microbial#Extracellular Space#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Penaeidae#Phenotype#Phylogeny#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Vibrio Infections#Vibrio vulnificus'
b'Hibernating animals can adjust torpor expression according to available energy reserves. Besides the quantity, the quality of energy reserves could play an important role for overwintering strategies. Common hamsters are food-storing hibernators and show high individual variation in hibernation performance, which might be related to the quality of food hoards in the hibernacula. In this study, we tested the effects of food stores high in fat content, particularly polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), on hibernation patterns under laboratory conditions. Control animals received standard rodent pellets only, while in the other group pellets were supplemented with sunflower seeds. We recorded body temperature during winter using subcutaneously implanted data loggers, documented total food consumption during winter, and analysed PUFA proportions in white adipose tissue (WAT) before and after the winter period. About half of the individuals in both groups hibernated and torpor expression did not differ between these animals. Among the high-fat group, however, individuals with high sunflower seeds intake strongly reduced the time spent in deep torpor. PUFA proportions in WAT decreased during winter in both groups and this decline was positively related to the time an individual spent in deep torpor. Sunflower seeds intake dampened the PUFA decline resulting in higher PUFA levels in animals of the high-fat group after winter. In conclusion, our results showed that common hamsters adjusted torpor expression and food intake in relation to the total energy of food reserves, underlining the importance of food hoard quality on hibernation performance. labels: #Adipose Tissue, White#Animals#Body Weight#Cricetinae#Diet, High-Fat#Eating#Fatty Acids, Unsaturated#Female#Hibernation#Seeds#Time Factors#Torpor'
b'BACKGROUND: Rhinovirus infections during infancy account for the majority of respiratory illness health care utilization and are an associated risk factor for subsequent development of allergic asthma. Neonatal type I interferon production is diminished compared to adults after stimulation with TLR agonists. However, broad profiling of immune cell responses to infectious rhinovirus has not been undertaken and we hypothesized that additional immune differences can be identified in neonates. In this study, we undertook a comparative analysis of neonatal and adult blood immune cell responses after in vitro incubation with infectious RV-A16 for 6 and 24 hours.METHODS: Intracellular proinflammatory and type I interferon cytokines along with expression of surface co-stimulatory and maturation markers were measured using multi-parameter flow cytometry.RESULTS: Both circulating myeloid dendritic cell (mDC) and plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC) frequency were lower in cord blood. Qualitative and quantitative plasmacytoid dendritic cell IFN-alpha + TNF- alpha responses to rhinovirus were significantly lower in cord pDCs. In cord blood samples, the majority of responsive pDCs were single-positive TNF-alpha producing cells, whereas in adult samples rhinovirus increased double-positive TNF-alpha+IFN-alpha+ pDCs. Rhinovirus upregulated activation and maturation markers on monocytes, mDCs, pDCs, and B cells, but CD40+CD86+ monocytes, mDCs, and pDCs cells were significantly higher in adult samples compared to cord samples. Surprisingly, rhinovirus increased CD40+CD86+ B cells to a significantly greater extent in cord samples compared to adults.CONCLUSIONS: These findings define a number of cell-specific differences in neonatal responses to rhinovirus. This differential age-related immune response to RV may have implications for the immune correlates of protection to viral respiratory illness burden and determination of potential biomarkers for asthma risk. labels: #Adult#B-Lymphocytes#Biomarkers#Cell Differentiation#Cytokines#Dendritic Cells#HLA-DR Antigens#HeLa Cells#Humans#Immunity#Infant, Newborn#Lymphocyte Activation#Rhinovirus#Umbilical Cord'
b'BACKGROUND: The Global Trachoma Mapping Project (GTMP) was implemented with the aim of completing the baseline map of trachoma globally. Over 2.6 million people were examined in 1,546 districts across 29 countries between December 2012 and January 2016. The aim of the analysis was to estimate the unit cost and to identify the key cost drivers of trachoma prevalence surveys conducted as part of GTMP.METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In-country and global support costs were obtained using GTMP financial records. In-country expenditure was analysed for 1,164 districts across 17 countries. The mean survey cost was $13,113 per district [median: $11,675; IQR = $8,365-$14,618], $17,566 per evaluation unit [median: $15,839; IQR = $10,773-$19,915], $692 per cluster [median: $625; IQR = $452-$847] and $6.0 per person screened [median: $4.9; IQR = $3.7-$7.9]. Survey unit costs varied substantially across settings, and were driven by parameters such as geographic location, demographic characteristics, seasonal effects, and local operational constraints. Analysis by activities showed that fieldwork constituted the largest share of in-country survey costs (74%), followed by training of survey teams (11%). The main drivers of in-country survey costs were personnel (49%) and transportation (44%). Global support expenditure for all surveyed districts amounted to $5.1m, which included grant management, epidemiological support, and data stewardship.CONCLUSION: This study provides the most extensive analysis of the cost of conducting trachoma prevalence surveys to date. The findings can aid planning and budgeting for future trachoma surveys required to measure the impact of trachoma elimination activities. Furthermore, the results of this study can also be used as a cost basis for other disease mapping programmes, where disease or context-specific survey cost data are not available. labels: #Communicable Disease Control#Epidemiological Monitoring#Health Care Costs#Humans#Topography, Medical#Trachoma'
b'Global declines in insects have sparked wide interest among scientists, politicians, and the general public. Loss of insect diversity and abundance is expected to provoke cascading effects on food webs and to jeopardize ecosystem services. Our understanding of the extent and underlying causes of this decline is based on the abundance of single species or taxonomic groups only, rather than changes in insect biomass which is more relevant for ecological functioning. Here, we used a standardized protocol to measure total insect biomass using Malaise traps, deployed over 27 years in 63 nature protection areas in Germany (96 unique location-year combinations) to infer on the status and trend of local entomofauna. Our analysis estimates a seasonal decline of 76%, and mid-summer decline of 82% in flying insect biomass over the 27 years of study. We show that this decline is apparent regardless of habitat type, while changes in weather, land use, and habitat characteristics cannot explain this overall decline. This yet unrecognized loss of insect biomass must be taken into account in evaluating declines in abundance of species depending on insects as a food source, and ecosystem functioning in the European landscape. labels: #Animals#Biomass#Conservation of Natural Resources#Flight, Animal#Insecta#Models, Theoretical#Sample Size#Seasons#Time Factors'
b'Why regeneration does not occur in mammals remains elusive. In lower vertebrates, epimorphic regeneration of the limb is directed by the wound epidermis, which controls blastema formation to promote regrowth of the appendage. Herein, we report that knockout (KO) or inhibition of Apoptosis Signal-regulated Kinase-1 (ASK1), also known as mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5 (MAP3K5), after full thickness ear punch in mice prolongs keratinocyte activation within the wound epidermis and promotes regeneration of auricular cartilage. Histological analysis showed the ASK1 KO ears displayed enhanced protein markers associated with blastema formation, hole closure and regeneration of auricular cartilage. At seven days after punch, the wound epidermis morphology was markedly different in the KO, showing a thickened stratum corneum with rounded cell morphology and a reduction of both the granular cell layer and decreased expression of filament aggregating protein. In addition, cytokeratin 6 was expressed in the stratum spinosum and granulosum. Topical application of inhibitors of ASK1 (NQDI-1), the upstream ASK1 activator, calcium activated mitogen kinase 2 (KN93), or the downstream target, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SP600125) also resulted in enhanced regeneration; whereas inhibition of the other downstream target, the p38 \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 isoforms, (SB203580) had no effect. The results of this investigation indicate ASK1 inhibition prolongs keratinocyte and blastemal cell activation leading to ear regeneration. labels: #Animals#Aporphines#Basement Membrane#Biomarkers#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Differentiation#Ear Cartilage#Epidermis#Epithelium#Isoenzymes#JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Keratinocytes#MAP Kinase Kinase Kinase 5#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Quinolines#Regeneration#Wounds and Injuries#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases'
b"The clinical significance of Virchow Robin spaces (VRS) in inflammatory brain disorders, especially in multiple sclerosis (MS), is still undefined. We analysed enlarged VRS (eVRS) by means of phase sensitive inversion recovery (PSIR) MRI sequence and investigated their association with inflammation or brain atrophy, and to clinical or physical disability. Forty-three MS patients (21 clinically isolated syndrome suggestive of MS [CIS], 15 RRMS, 7 progressive [PMS]) and 10 healthy controls (HC) were studied. 3DT1, 3DFLAIR and 2DPSIR images were obtained with a 3T MRI scanner. eVRS number and volume were calculated by manual segmentation (ITK-SNAP). Freesurfer was used to assess brain parenchymal fraction (BPF). All patients underwent clinical (EDSS) and cognitive (Rao's BRB and DKEFS) evaluation. eVRS number and volume resulted significantly higher on 2D-PSIR compared to both 3D-T1 (p<0.001) and 3D-FLAIR (p<0.001) and were significantly increased in CIS compared to HC (p<0.05), in PMS and RRMS compared to CIS (p<0.001) and in male versus female patients (p<0.05). eVRS volume increased significantly with disease duration (r = 0.6) but did not correlate with EDSS. eVRS significantly correlated with SPARTd (r = -0.47) and DKEFSfs (r = -0.46), especially when RRMS and PMS were merged in a single group (r = 0.89, p = 0.002 and r = 0.66, p = 0.009 respectively), while no correlation was found with BPF (r = 0.3), gadolinium-enhancing lesions (r = 0.2) and WMT2 lesion volume (r = 0.2). 2DPSIR allowed the detection of an impressive higher number of eVRS compared to 3DT1 and 3DFLAIR. eVRS associate with SPARTd and DKEFSfs failure in relapse-onset MS, suggesting they may contribute to cognitive decline in MS. labels: #Adult#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cognitive Dysfunction#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Multiple Sclerosis#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting"
b'PURPOSE: To classify patients with orthotopic neobladder based on urodynamic parameters using cluster analysis and to characterize the voiding function of each group.MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 2012 to November 2015, 142 patients with bladder cancer underwent radical cystectomy and Studer neobladder reconstruction at our institute. Of the 142 patients, 103 with complete urodynamic data and information on urinary functional outcomes were included in this study. K-means clustering was performed with urodynamic parameters which included maximal cystometric capacity, residual volume, maximal flow rate, compliance, and detrusor pressure at maximum flow rate. Three groups emerged by cluster analysis. Urodynamic parameters and urinary function outcomes were compared between three groups.RESULTS: Group 1 (n = 44) had ideal urodynamic parameters with a mean maximal bladder capacity of 513.3 ml and mean residual urine volume of 33.1 ml. Group 2 (n = 42) was characterized by small bladder capacity with low compliance. Patients in group 2 had higher rates of daytime incontinence and nighttime incontinence than patients in group 1. Group 3 (n = 17) was characterized by large residual urine volume with high compliance. When we examined gender differences in urodynamics and functional outcomes, residual urine volume and the rate of daytime incontinence were only marginally significant. However, females were significantly more likely to belong to group 2 or 3 (P = 0.003). In multivariate analysis to identify factors associated with group 1 which has the most ideal urodynamic pattern, age (OR 0.95, P = 0.017) and male gender (OR 7.57, P = 0.003) were identified as significant factors.CONCLUSIONS: While patients with ileal neobladder present with various voiding symptoms, three urodynamic patterns were identified by cluster analysis. Approximately half of patients had ideal urodynamic parameters. The other two groups were characterized by large residual urine and small capacity bladder with low compliance. Young age and male gender appear to have a favorable impact on urodynamic and voiding outcomes in patients undergoing orthotopic neobladder reconstruction. labels: #Aged#Cluster Analysis#Female#Humans#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder#Urodynamics'
b"Candidemia acquired outside critical care or hematological areas has received much attention in recent years; however, data on candidemia in surgical departments are very scarce. Our objectives were to describe episodes of candidemia diagnosed in surgical wards and to compare them with episodes occurring in medical wards. We performed a post hoc analysis of a prospective, multicenter study implemented in Spain during 2010-2011 (CANDIPOP project). Of the 752 episodes of candidemia, 369 (49.1%) occurred in patients admitted to surgical wards (165, 21.9%) or medical wards (204, 27.2%). Clinical characteristics associated with surgical patients were solid tumor as underlying disease, recent surgery, indwelling CVC, and parenteral nutrition. Candidemia was more commonly related to a CVC in the surgical than in the medical wards. The CVC was removed more frequently and early management was more appropriate within 48 hours of blood sampling in the surgical patients. Overall, 30-day mortality in the surgical departments was significantly lower than in medical wards (37.7% vs. 15.8%, p<0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed admission to a surgical ward and appropriate early management of candidemia as factors independently associated with a better outcome. We found that approximately 50% of episodes of candidemia occurred in non-hematological patients outside the ICU and that clinical outcome was better in patients admitted to surgical wards than in those hospitalized in medical wards. These findings can be explained by the lower severity of underlying disease, prompt administration of antifungal therapy, and central venous catheter removal. labels: #Adult#Aged#Candidemia#Demography#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Patients' Rooms#Risk Factors#Surgical Procedures, Operative#Treatment Outcome"
b"Little is known about the cat's (Felis silvestris catus) need for human contact, although it is generally believed that cats are more independent pets than e.g. dogs. In this study, we investigated the effect of time left alone at home on cat behaviour (e.g. social and distress-related) before, during and after separation from their owner. Fourteen privately owned cats (single-housed) were each subjected to two treatments: the cat was left alone in their home environment for 30 min (T0.5) and for 4 h (T4). There were no differences between treatments in the behaviour of the cat (or owner) before owner departure, nor during the first 5 min of separation. During separation, cats were lying down resting proportionally less (T = 22.5, P = 0.02) in T0.5 (0.27\xc2\xb10.1 (mean\xc2\xb1SE)) compared to in T4 (0.58\xc2\xb10.08), probably due to a similar duration of higher activity early in the separation phase in both treatments. Comparisons of the time interval (min 20-25) in both treatments indicated no differences across treatments, which supports such an explanation. Towards the end of the separation phase (the last two 5-min intervals of separation in both treatments), no differences were observed in the cats' behaviour, indicating that cats were unaffected by separation length. At reunion however, cats purred more (T = 10.5, P = 0.03) and stretched their body more (T = 17, P = 0.04) after a longer duration of separation (T4:0.05\xc2\xb10.02; 0.03\xc2\xb10.01; T0.5: 0.01\xc2\xb10.007; 0.008\xc2\xb10.003). Also, owners initiated more verbal contact (T = 33.5, P = 0.04) after 4 h (0.18\xc2\xb10.05) compared to after 30 min (0.12\xc2\xb10.03). There was no evidence of any correlations between the level of purring or body stretching by the cat and verbal contact by the owner implying that the behavioural expressions seen in the cats are independent of the owner's behaviour. Hence, it seemed as cats coped well with being left alone, but they were affected by the time they were left alone, since they expressed differences in behaviour when the owner returned home. The increased level of social contact initiated by the cats after a longer duration of separation indicates a rebound of contact-seeking behaviour, implying that the owner is an important part of the cat's social environment. labels: #Animals#Bonding, Human-Pet#Cats#Confidence Intervals#Female#Humans#Male#Ownership#Pets"
b'OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the association of knee osteoarthritis (OA) with comorbidities and health-related quality of life (HRQOL).METHODS: A total of 8,907 (weighted n = 13,687,058) participants aged \xe2\x89\xa550 years who had undergone knee radiography were selected from the 2010-2012 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. OA was classified into four subgroups based on the presence or absence of pain and radiographic OA (ROA): non-OA (Pain-/ROA-), pain only (Pain+/ROA-), ROA only (Pain-/ROA+), and painful ROA (Pain+/ROA+). ROA was defined as Kellgren-Lawrence grade \xe2\x89\xa5 2. HRQOL measurements including EuroQOL visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) scores and the five dimensions and summary index of the EuroQOL-5 dimension (EQ-5D index) were also analyzed. Multivariable logistic regression and linear regression analyses were performed.RESULTS: After adjustment for socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics, cardiovascular disease, malignancy, and other comorbidities were not significantly associated with OA. Pain only and painful ROA were each significantly associated with limitations in physical activity (odds ratio (OR) 2.66, 95% CI 2.07-3.44, p<0.001 and OR 2.83, 95% CI 2.25-3.58, p<0.001, respectively), lower EQ-VAS (\xce\xb2-coefficient = -10.95, p<0.001 and \xce\xb2-coefficient = -9.75, p<0.001, respectively), and EQ-5D index (\xce\xb2-coefficient = -0.10, p<0.001 and \xce\xb2-coefficient = -0.13, p<0.001) compared with the non-OA group, whereas ROA only was not associated with limitations in physical activity or lower HRQOL score.CONCLUSIONS: Comorbidities were not significantly associated with knee OA after adjustment. Knee OA was associated with physical activity and HRQOL. Painful knee OA, with or without ROA, was more strongly associated with decreased physical activity and lower quality of life than ROA without pain. labels: #Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Comorbidity#Exercise#Female#Humans#Knee Joint#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Nutrition Surveys#Odds Ratio#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Quality of Life#Republic of Korea'
b'There is some dispute regarding the role of experience in the development of dogs\xc2\xb4 socio-cognitive abilities in their interaction with people. We sought to provide new evidence to this debate by comparing dogs with contrasting levels of experience with humans, in a task involving the discrimination of human generous and selfish attitudes. To this end, we compared the performance of adult family dogs against that of adult shelter dogs and puppies living in people\xc2\xb4s homes. In training trials, the generous experimenter (G) signaled the bowl with food and allowed the dog to eat, whereas the selfish experimenter (S) also signaled the baited bowl, but she/he ate the food before the dog could have access to it. Then, subjects were allowed to freely choose between G and S in the choice test. The main finding was that adult subjects (both family and shelter dogs) developed a preference for G over S, but puppies did not. We conclude that the quality and/or quantity of everyday-contact with people did not affect the discrimination of human attitudes in the present protocol, but the amount of experience with people (in years) did matter. Finally, we discuss the relative role of domestication and ontogeny in the development of dogs\xc2\xb4 socio-cognitive abilities. labels: #Animals#Attitude#Behavior, Animal#Choice Behavior#Dogs#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Recognition (Psychology)'
b'The adoptive transfer of labelled cell populations has been an essential tool to determine and quantify cellular dynamics. The experimental methods to label and track cells over time range from fluorescent dyes over congenic markers towards single-cell labelling techniques, such as genetic barcodes. While these methods have been widely used to quantify cell differentiation and division dynamics, the extent to which the applied labelling strategy actually affects the quantification of the dynamics has not been determined so far. This is especially important in situations where measurements can only be obtained at a single time point, as e.g. due to organ harvest. To this end, we studied the appropriateness of various labelling strategies as characterised by the number of different labels and the initial number of cells per label to quantify cellular dynamics. We simulated adoptive transfer experiments in systems of various complexity that assumed either homoeostatic cellular turnover or cell expansion dynamics involving various steps of cell differentiation and proliferation. Re-sampling cells at a single time point, we determined the ability of different labelling strategies to recover the underlying kinetics. Our results indicate that cell transition and expansion rates are differently affected by experimental shortcomings, such as loss of cells during transfer or sampling, dependent on the labelling strategy used. Furthermore, uniformly distributed labels in the transferred population generally lead to more robust and less biased results than non-equal label sizes. In addition, our analysis indicates that certain labelling approaches incorporate a systematic bias for the identification of complex cell expansion dynamics. labels: #Cell Differentiation#Cell Proliferation#Cells#Homeostasis#Models, Biological#Staining and Labeling#Time Factors'
b"BACKGROUND: Antivenom is the treatment of choice for snakebite, which annually kills an estimated 32,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa and leaves approximately 100,000 survivors with permanent physical disabilities that exert a considerable socioeconomic burden. Over the past two decades, the high costs of the most polyspecifically-effective antivenoms have sequentially reduced demand, commercial manufacturing incentives and production volumes that have combined to create a continent-wide vacuum of effective snakebite therapy. This was quickly filled with new, less expensive antivenoms, many of which are of untested efficacy. Some of these successfully marketed antivenoms for Africa are inappropriately manufactured with venoms from non-African snakes and are dangerously ineffective. The uncertain efficacy of available antivenoms exacerbates the complexity of designing intervention measures to reduce the burden of snakebite in sub-Saharan Africa. The objective of this study was to preclinically determine the ability of antivenoms available in Kenya to neutralise the lethal effects of venoms from the most medically important snakes in East Africa.METHODS: We collected venom samples from the most medically important snakes in East Africa and determined their toxicity in a mouse model. Using a 'gold standard' comparison protocol, we preclinically tested the comparative venom-neutralising efficacy of four antivenoms available in Kenya with two antivenoms of clinically-proven efficacy. To explain the variant efficacies of these antivenoms we tested the IgG-venom binding characteristics of each antivenom using in vitro IgG titre, avidity and venom-protein specificity assays. We also measured the IgG concentration of each antivenom.FINDINGS: None of the six antivenoms are preclinically effective, at the doses tested, against all of the most medically important snakes of the region. The very limited snake polyspecific efficacy of two locally available antivenoms is of concern. In vitro assays of the abilities of 'test' antivenom IgGs to bind venom proteins were not substantially different from that of the 'gold standard' antivenoms. The least effective antivenoms had the lowest IgG content/vial.CONCLUSIONS: Manufacture-stated preclinical efficacy statements guide decision making by physicians and antivenom purchasers in sub-Saharan Africa. This is because of the lack of both clinical data on the efficacy of most of the many antivenoms used to treat patients and independent preclinical assessment. Our preclinical efficacy assessment of antivenoms available in Kenya identifies important limitations for two of the most commonly-used antivenoms, and that no antivenom is preclinically effective against all the regionally important snakes. The potential implication to snakebite treatment is of serious concern in Kenya and elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa, and underscores the dilemma physicians face, the need for clinical data on antivenom efficacy and the medical and societal value of establishing independent preclinical antivenom-efficacy testing facilities throughout the continent. labels: #Africa, Eastern#Animals#Antivenins#Drug Evaluation, Preclinical#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Kenya#Lethal Dose 50#Mice#Protein Binding#Snake Bites#Snake Venoms#Snakes"
b'Cellular responses to stress stem from a variety of different mechanisms, including translation arrest and relocation of the translationally repressed mRNAs to ribonucleoprotein particles like stress granules (SGs) and processing bodies (PBs). Here, we examine the role of PKA in the S. cerevisiae heat shock response. Under mild heat stress Tpk3 aggregates and promotes aggregation of eIF4G, Pab1 and eIF4E, whereas severe heat stress leads to the formation of PBs and SGs that contain both Tpk2 and Tpk3 and a larger 48S translation initiation complex. Deletion of TPK2 or TPK3 impacts upon the translational response to heat stress of several mRNAs including CYC1, HSP42, HSP30 and ENO2. TPK2 deletion leads to a robust translational arrest, an increase in SGs/PBs aggregation and translational hypersensitivity to heat stress, whereas TPK3 deletion represses SGs/PBs formation, translational arrest and response for the analyzed mRNAs. Therefore, this work provides evidence indicating that Tpk2 and Tpk3 have opposing roles in translational adaptation during heat stress, and highlight how the same signaling pathway can be regulated to generate strikingly distinct physiological outputs. labels: #Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinase Catalytic Subunits#Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinases#Cytoplasmic Granules#Heat-Shock Response#Protein Aggregates#Protein Biosynthesis#Protein Subunits#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Stress, Physiological#Subcellular Fractions'
b'BACKGROUND: FSS have been suggested to follow activation of the immune system, triggered by herpes virus infections. The aim of this study was to find out whether herpes virus infections were associated with the experience of FSS in adolescents, and whether this association was mediated by hsCRP, as a general marker of immune activation.METHODS: This study was performed in TRAILS, a large prospective population cohort of 2230 adolescents (mean age: 16.1 years, SD = .66, 53.4% girls). FSS were assessed using the somatic complaints subscale of the Youth Self-Report. FSS were analyzed as total scores and divided in two group clusters based on previous studies in this cohort. Levels of hsCRP and antibody levels to the herpes viruses HSV1, HSV2, CMV, EBV and HHV6 were assessed in blood samples at age 16. Also a value for pathogen burden was created adding the number of viruses the adolescents were seropositive for. Multiple regression analysis with bootstrapping was used to analyze the association between viral antibodies and pathogen burden, hsCRP and FSS scores.RESULTS: Antibody levels and pathogen burden were not associated with FSS total scores or FSS scores in both symptom groups. hsCRP was associated with the total FSS score (B = .02, 95% CI: .004 to .028, p = .01) and FSS score in the symptom group of headache and gastrointestinal complaints (B = .02, 95% CI: .001 to .039, p = .04).CONCLUSION: Our study showed no association between herpes virus infections and FSS in general or specific FSS symptom clusters. A role for inflammatory processes in FSS development was supported by the significant association we found between hsCRP levels and FSS, especially in the symptom group of headache and gastrointestinal complaints. labels: #Adolescent#Antibodies, Viral#C-Reactive Protein#Female#Herpesviridae#Herpesviridae Infections#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies'
b"Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal genetic disease caused by an absence of the 427kD muscle-specific dystrophin isoform. Utrophin is the autosomal homolog of dystrophin and when overexpressed, can compensate for the absence of dystrophin and rescue the dystrophic phenotype of the mdx mouse model of DMD. Utrophin is subject to miRNA mediated repression by several miRNAs including let-7c. Inhibition of utrophin: let-7c interaction is predicted to 'repress the repression' and increase utrophin expression. We developed and tested the ability of an oligonucleotide, composed of 2'-O-methyl modified bases on a phosphorothioate backbone, to anneal to the utrophin 3'UTR and prevent let-7c miRNA binding, thereby upregulating utrophin expression and improving the dystrophic phenotype in vivo. Suppression of utrophin: let-7c interaction using bi-weekly intraperitoneal injections of let7 site blocking oligonucleotides (SBOs) for 1 month in the mdx mouse model for DMD, led to increased utrophin expression along with improved muscle histology, decreased fibrosis and increased specific force. The functional improvement of dystrophic muscle achieved using let7-SBOs suggests a novel utrophin upregulation-based therapeutic strategy for DMD. labels: #Animals#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Male#Mice, Inbred mdx#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne#Oligonucleotides#Protein Binding#Reproducibility of Results#Up-Regulation#Utrophin"
b'BACKGROUND: Postoperative complications are still a major concern after liver resection (LR). Systemic inflammation and deregulated reactive oxygen species during major abdominal surgery may impair outcome after hepatectomy.METHODS: Patients undergoing LR were included in this study (n = 40). Oxidative stress (OS) was measured peri- and post-operatively as static oxidation-reduction potential markers (sORP) and antioxidant capacity ORP (cORP) by using the RedoxSYS Diagnostic system. Furthermore, Th1- and Th2-specific cytokines were assessed.RESULTS: Whereas there was no significant change in systemic sORP during LR and in the early postoperative course, there was a substantial decrease of cORP immediately post-surgery, and on postoperative days 1 and 3 (p<0.001). OS response was tightly regulated, as there was a significant correlation between sORP and cORP (p<0.0001; R2:0.457). An increase of OS (sORP) after LR of more than 3 mV was predictive for severe postoperative complications (53.8% vs. 12.5; p = 0.017). There was a significantly higher IL-2 (p = 0.006) and IL-5 (p = 0.001) increase during hepatectomy in patients who developed a severe morbidity.CONCLUSION: Antioxidant capacity remained stable during LR but dropped during the post-surgical period, suggesting a consumption of antioxidants to maintain OS within healthy range. Severe postoperative complications were associated with a pronounced inflammatory response during surgery. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cytokines#Female#Hepatectomy#Humans#Inflammation#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidative Stress#Postoperative Complications'
b"Post-abortion family planning (PAFP) has been proposed as a key strategy to decrease unintended pregnancy and repeat induced abortions. However, the accessibility and quality of PAFP services remain a challenge in many countries including China where more than 10 million unintended pregnancies occur each year. Most of these unwanted pregnancies end in repeated induced abortions. This paper aims to explore service providers' perceptions of the current situation regarding family planning and abortion service needs, provision, utilization, and the feasibility and acceptability of high quality PAFP in the future. Qualitative methods, including in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, were used with family planning policy makers, health managers, and service providers. Three provinces-Zhejiang, Hubei and Yunnan-were purposively selected, representing high, medium and relatively undeveloped areas of China. A total of fifty-three in-depth interviews and ten focus-group discussions were conducted and analysed thematically. Increased numbers of abortions among young, unmarried women were perceived as a major reason for high numbers of abortions. Participants attributed this to increasing socio-cultural acceptability of premarital sex, and simultaneously, lack of understanding or awareness of contraception among young people. The majority of service stakeholders acknowledged that free family planning services were neither targeted at, nor accessible to unmarried people. The extent of PAFP provision is variable and limited. However, service providers expressed willingness and enthusiasm towards providing PAFP services in the future. Three main considerations were expressed regarding the feasibility of developing and implementing PAFP services: policy support, human resources, and financial resources. The study indicated that key service stakeholders show demand for and perceive considerable opportunities to develop PAFP in China. However, changes are needed to enable the systematic development of high quality PAFP, including actively targeting young and unmarried people in service provision, obtaining policy support and increasing the investment of human and financial resources. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Attitude of Health Personnel#China#Family Planning Policy#Family Planning Services#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans"
b'Environmental acclimation is important episode in wildlife occupation of the high-altitude Tibetan Plateau (TP). Transcriptome-wide studies on thermal acclimation mechanism in fish species are rarely revealed in Tibetan Plateau fish at high altitude. Thus, we used mRNA and miRNA transcriptome sequencing to investigate regulation of thermal acclimation in larval Tibetan naked carp, Gymnocypris przewalskii. We first remodeled the regulation network of mRNA and miRNA in thermal acclimation, and then identified differential expression of miRNAs and target mRNAs enriched in metabolic and digestive pathways. Interestingly, we identified two candidate genes contributed to normal skeletal development. The altered expression of these gene groups could potentially be associated with the developmental issues of deformity and induced larval death. Our results have three important implications: first, these findings provide strong evidences to support our hypothesis that G. przewalskii possess ability to build heat-tolerance against the controversial issue. Second, this study shows that transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulations are extensively involved in thermal acclimation. Third, the integrated mRNA and microRNA transcriptome analyses provide a large number of valuable genetic resources for future studies on environmental stress response in G. przewalskii and as a case study in Tibetan Schizothoracine fish. labels: #Acclimatization#Animals#Bone Development#Carps#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Regulatory Networks#Heat-Shock Response#Larva#Male#MicroRNAs#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reproducibility of Results#Sequence Analysis, RNA#Temperature'
b"OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact and cost-benefit of clinical pharmacist interventions on inappropriate use of prophylactic acid suppressant in hepatobiliary surgical patients in a Chinese tertiary hospital.METHODS: A retro-prospective intervention study of patients undergoing elective operations was performed in the Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery of the Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical University. Patients admitted from October to December 2015 and from October to December 2016, served as the pre-intervention and the post-intervention group, respectively. Clinical pharmacist interventions in the post-intervention group included real-time monitoring medical records and recommending that surgeons prescribe prophylactic acid suppressants according to the criteria established by the hospital administration. Then, the clinical outcomes of post-intervention group were compared with the pre-intervention group which lacked pharmacist interventions. In addition, cost-benefit analysis was conducted to determine the economic effects of implementing the clinical pharmacist interventions in acid suppressant prophylaxis in perioperative period.RESULTS: Clinical pharmacist interventions significantly decreased the rate of the use of no indications for prophylactic acid suppressant and of the cases of inappropriate drug selection, dose, route, replacement and prolonged duration of prophylaxis (P<0.05 or P<0.001), resulting in significant increase by 10.65% in the percentage of cases adhering to all the criteria (P<0.001). Moreover, significant reductions were found in the average usage quantity (P<0.001), mean cost (P = 0.03) and mean duration (P<0.001) of prophylaxis acid suppressant. The ratio of the mean cost savings for acid suppressants to the mean cost of pharmacist time was 13.61:1.CONCLUSION: The clinical pharmacist's real-time interventions facilitated the rational use of prophylactic acid suppressant and resulted in favorable economic outcomes in hepatobiliary surgery. labels: #Adult#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Elective Surgical Procedures#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Liver#Male#Medication Errors#Middle Aged#Patients#Pharmacists#Pharmacy Service, Hospital#Tertiary Care Centers"
b'Current post-exposure prophylaxis for rabies virus infection has several limitations in terms of supply, cost, safety, and efficacy. Attempts to replace human or equine rabies immune globulins (HRIG or ERIG) have been made by several companies and institutes. We developed potent monoclonal antibodies to neutralize a broad spectrum of rabies viruses by screening hybridomas received from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Two kinds of chimeric human antibodies (chimeric #7 and #17) were constructed by cloning the variable regions from selected hybridomas and the constant region of a human antibody. Two antibodies were bound to antigenic site III and I/IV, respectively, and were able to neutralize 51 field isolates of rabies virus that were isolated at different times and places such as Asia, Africa, North America, South America, and Australia. These two antibodies neutralize rabies viruses with high efficacy in an in vivo test using Syrian hamster and mouse models and show low risk for adverse immunogenicity. labels: #Africa#Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Asia#Australia#Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Disease Models, Animal#Horses#Humans#Hybridomas#Mesocricetus#Mice#North America#Rabies#Rabies virus#South America#United States'
b"In vivo physiological measurement is a major challenge in modern science and technology, as is environment conservation at the global scale. Proper toxicological testing of widely produced mixtures of chemicals is a necessary step in the development of new products, allowing us to minimize the human impact on aquatic ecosystems. However, currently available bioassay-based techniques utilizing small aquatic organisms such as fish embryos for toxicity testing do not allow assessing in time the changes in physiological parameters in the same individual. In this study, we introduce microencapsulated fluorescent probes as a promising tool for in vivo monitoring of internal pH variation in zebrafish embryos. The pH alteration identified under stress conditions demonstrates the applicability of the microencapsulated fluorescent probes for the repeated analysis of the embryo's physiological state. The proposed approach has strong potential to simultaneously measure a range of physiological characteristics using a set of specific fluorescent probes and to finally bring toxicological bioassays and related research fields to a new level of effectiveness and sensitivity. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Calibration#Drug Compounding#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Environmental Monitoring#Fluorescent Dyes#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Molecular Probes#Zebrafish"
b'The three dimensional (3D) reconstruction of movement from videos is widely utilized as a method for spatial analysis of movement. Several approaches exist for a 3D reconstruction of movement using 2D video projection, most of them require the use of at least two cameras as well as the application of relatively complex algorithms. While a few approaches also exist for 3D reconstruction of movement with a single camera, they are not widely implemented due to tedious and complicated methods of calibration. Here we propose a simple method that allows for a 3D reconstruction of movement by using a single projection and three calibration markers. Such approach is made possible by tracking the change in diameter of a moving spherical marker within a 2D projection. In order to test our model, we compared kinematic results obtained with this model to those with the commonly used approach of two cameras and Direct Linear Transformation (DLT). Our results show that such approach appears to be in line with the DLT method for 3D reconstruction and kinematic analysis. The simplicity of this method may render it approachable for both clinical use as well as in uncontrolled environments. labels: #Adult#Biomechanical Phenomena#Female#Fiducial Markers#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Movement#Photography'
b'Gold nanorods (GNRs) are increasingly being investigated for cancer theranostics as they possess features which lend themselves in equal measures as contrast agents and catalysts for photothermal therapy. Their optical absorption spectral peak wavelength is determined by their size and shape. Photothermal therapy using GNRs is typically established using near infrared light as this allows sufficient penetration into the tumour matrix. Continuous wave (CW) lasers are the most commonly applied source of near infrared irradiation on GNRs for tumour photothermal therapy. It is perceived that large tumours may require fractionated or prolonged irradiation. However the true efficacy of repeated or protracted CW irradiation on tumour sites using the original sample of GNRs remains unclear. In this study spectroscopy and transmission electron microscopy are used to demonstrate that GNRs reshape both in vitro and in vivo after CW irradiation, which reduces their absorption efficiency. These changes were sustained throughout and beyond the initial period of irradiation, resulting from a spectral blue-shift and a considerable diminution in the absorption peak of GNRs. Solid subcutaneous tumours in immunodeficient BALB/c mice were subjected to GNRs and analysed with electron microscopy pre- and post-CW laser irradiation. This phenomenon of thermally induced GNR reshaping can occur at relatively low bulk temperatures, well below the bulk melting point of gold. Photoacoustic monitoring of GNR reshaping is also evaluated as a potential clinical aid to determine GNR absorption and reshaping during photothermal therapy. Aggregation of particles was coincidentally observed following CW irradiation, which would further diminish the subsequent optical absorption capacity of irradiated GNRs. It is thus established that sequential or prolonged applications of CW laser will not confer any additional photothermal effect on tumours due to significant attenuations in the peak optical absorption properties of GNRs following primary laser irradiation. labels: #Animals#Gold#Lasers#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Nanotubes#Photoacoustic Techniques#Temperature'
b"This longitudinal study examined whether mothers' and fathers' depressive symptoms predict, independently and interactively, children's emotional and behavioural problems. It also examined bi-directional associations between parents' expressed emotion constituents (parents' child-directed positive and critical comments) and children's emotional and behavioural problems. At time 1, the sample consisted of 160 families in which 50 mothers and 40 fathers had depression according to the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV. Children's mean age at Time 1 was 3.9 years (SD = 0.8). Families (n = 106) were followed up approximately 16 months later (Time 2). Expressed emotion constituents were assessed using the Preschool Five Minute Speech Sample. In total, 144 mothers and 158 fathers at Time 1 and 93 mothers and 105 fathers at Time 2 provided speech samples. Fathers' depressive symptoms were concurrently associated with more child emotional problems when mothers had higher levels of depressive symptoms. When controlling for important confounders (children's gender, baseline problems, mothers' depressive symptoms and parents' education and age), fathers' depressive symptoms independently predicted higher levels of emotional and behavioural problems in their children over time. There was limited evidence for a bi-directional relationship between fathers' positive comments and change in children's behavioural problems over time. Unexpectedly, there were no bi-directional associations between parents' critical comments and children's outcomes. We conclude that the study provides evidence to support a whole family approach to prevention and intervention strategies for children's mental health and parental depression. labels: #Child#Child Behavior#Depression#Expressed Emotion#Fathers#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Mothers#Parents"
b"This study aims to compare the outputs of the waist-worn Active style Pro HJA-350IT (ASP; used in studies with Asian populations), the waist-worn ActiGragh\xe2\x84\xa2GT3X+ using the normal filter (GT3X+) and the thigh-worn activPAL3 (AP) in assessing adults' sedentary behaviour (total sedentary time, number of breaks) under free-living conditions. Fifty healthy workers wore the three monitors simultaneously during their waking hours on two days, including a work day and a non-work day. Valid data were at least 10 hours of wearing time, and the differences between monitors on the sedentary outputs using the AP as criterion measurement were analyzed by ANOVA. The number of participants who had complete valid data for work day and non-work day was 47 and 44, respectively. Total sedentary time and breaks estimated by the AP were respectively 466.5 \xc2\xb1 146.8 min and 64.3 \xc2\xb1 24.9 times on the work day and 497.7 \xc2\xb1 138.3 min and 44.6 \xc2\xb1 15.4 times on the non-work day. In total sedentary time, the ASP estimated 29.7 min (95%CI = 7.9 to 51.5) significantly shorter than the AP on the work day but showed no significant difference against the AP on the non-work day. The GT3X+ estimated 80.1 min (54.6 to 105.6) and 52.3 (26.4 to 78.2) significantly longer than the AP on the work day and the non-work day, respectively. For the number of breaks from sedentary time, on both days, the ASP and the GT3X+ estimated significantly more than the AP: 14.1 to 15.8 times (6.3 to 22.5) for the ASP and 27.7 to 28.8 times (21.8 to 34.8) for the GT3X+. Compared to the AP as the criterion, the ASP can underestimate total sedentary time and the GT3X+ can overestimate it, and more so at the lower levels of sedentary time. For breaks from sedentary time, compared to the AP, both the GT3X+ the ASP can overestimate. labels: #Actigraphy#Adult#Aged#Asia#Female#Humans#Male#Sedentary Lifestyle#Time Factors#Young Adult"
b'The repeated replacement method (RRM) is a Lagrangian meshfree method which we have previously applied to the Euler equations for compressible fluid flow. In this paper we present new enhancements to RRM, and we apply the enhanced method to both linear and nonlinear elasticity. We compare the results of ten test problems to those of analytic solvers, to demonstrate that RRM can successfully simulate these elastic systems without many of the requirements of traditional numerical methods such as numerical derivatives, equation system solvers, or Riemann solvers. We also show the relationship between error and computational effort for RRM on these systems, and compare RRM to other methods to highlight its strengths and weaknesses. And to further explain the two elastic equations used in the paper, we demonstrate the mathematical procedure used to create Riemann and Sedov-Taylor solvers for them, and detail the numerical techniques needed to embody those solvers in code. labels: #Computer Simulation#Elasticity#Hydrodynamics#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Theoretical'
b'A feature of mature Plasmodium falciparum parasitized red blood cells is their ability to bind surface molecules of the microvascular endothelium via the parasite-derived surface protein Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1). This ligand is associated with the cytoadherence pathology observed in severe malaria. As pRBC treated with effective anti-malarial drugs are still able to cytoadhere, there is therefore a need to find an adjunct treatment that can inhibit and reverse the adhesion process. One semi-synthetic, sulfated polysaccharide has been identified that is capable of inhibiting and reversing sequestration of pRBC on endothelial cells in vitro under physiological flow conditions. Furthermore, it exhibits low toxicity in the intrinsic (APTT assay) and extrinsic (PT assay) clotting pathways, as well as exhibiting minimal effects on cell (HUVEC) viability (MTT proliferation assay). These findings suggest that carbohydrate-based anti-adhesive candidates may provide potential leads for therapeutics for severe malaria. labels: #Antimalarials#Cell Adhesion#Cell Proliferation#Endothelial Cells#Erythrocytes#Glycosaminoglycans#Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells#Humans#Malaria, Falciparum#Plasmodium falciparum#Protozoan Proteins'
b'Nest boxes for predators in agricultural regions are an easily implemented tool to improve local habitat quality with potential benefits for both conservation and agriculture. The potential for nest boxes to increase raptor populations in agricultural regions is of particular interest given their positions as top predators. This study examined the effects of cherry orchard nest boxes on the local breeding population of a declining species, the American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), in a fruit-growing region of Michigan. During the 2013-2016 study, we added a total of 23 new nest boxes in addition to 24 intact boxes installed previously; kestrels used up to 100% of our new boxes each season. We conducted temporally-replicated surveys along four roadside transects divided into 1.6 km \xc3\x97 500 m sites. We developed a multi-season occupancy model under a Bayesian framework and found that nest boxes had strong positive effects on first-year site occupancy, site colonization, and site persistence probabilities. The estimated number of occupied sites increased between 2013 and 2016, which correlated with the increase in number of sites with boxes. Kestrel detections decreased with survey date but were not affected by time of day or activity at the boxes themselves. These results indicate that nest boxes determined the presence of kestrels at our study sites and support the conclusion that the local kestrel population is likely limited by nest site availability. Furthermore, our results are highly relevant to the farmers on whose properties the boxes were installed, for we can conclude that installing a nest box in an orchard resulted in a high probability of kestrels occupying that orchard or the areas adjacent to it. labels: #Animals#Fruit#Geography#Michigan#Models, Theoretical#Nesting Behavior#Probability#Raptors#Seasons'
b"BACKGROUND: Malnutrition accounts for 45% of mortality in children under five years old, despite a global mobilization against chronic malnutrition. In Madagascar, the most recent data show that the prevalence of stunting in children under five years old is still around 47.4%. This study aimed to identify the determinants of stunting in children in rural areas of Moramanga and Morondava districts to target the main areas for intervention.METHODS: A case-control study was conducted in children aged from 6 to 59.9 months, in 2014-2015. We measured the height and weight of mothers and children and collected data on child, mother and household characteristics. One stool specimen was collected from each child for intestinal parasite identification. We used a multivariate logistic regression model to identify the determinants of stunting using backwards stepwise methods.RESULTS: We included 894 and 932 children in Moramanga and in Morondava respectively. Stunting was highly prevalent in both areas, being 52.8% and 40.0% for Moramanga and Morondava, respectively. Stunting was most associated with a specific age period (12mo to 35mo) in the two study sites. Infection with Trichuris trichiura (aOR: 2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.3) and those belonging to poorer households (aOR: 2.3, 95% CI: 1.6-3.4) were the major risk factors in Moramanga. In Morondava, children whose mother had activities outside the household (aOR: 1.7, 95% CI: 1.2-2.5) and those perceived to be small at birth (aOR: 1.6, 95% CI: 1.1-2.1) were more likely to be stunted, whereas adequate birth spacing (\xe2\x89\xa524months) appeared protective (aOR: 0.4, 95% CI: 0.3-0.7).CONCLUSION: Interventions that could improve children's growth in these two areas include poverty reduction, women's empowerment, public health programmes focusing on WASH and increasing acceptability, and increased coverage and quality of child/maternal health services. labels: #Animals#Case-Control Studies#Child, Preschool#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#Infant#Madagascar#Male#Models, Theoretical#Parasites#Poverty#Power (Psychology)#Public Health#Rural Population#Women"
b'We studied the effects of radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMFs) exposure on neuronal functions of mice. Particularly, we focused on RF-EMF effects on synaptic vesicles (SVs), which store neurotransmitters at axon terminals or synaptic boutons. C57 BL/6 mice were exposed to 835 MHz RF-EMF (4.0 W/kg SAR, for 5 h daily) and alterations in SVs at presynaptic terminals in the cerebral cortex were determined. Ultrastructure of randomly selected cortical neurons was observed using typical electron microscopy and bio-high voltage electron microscopy (Bio-HVEM) methods, which enable the estimation of the numbers and size of SVs. The density of the SVs (number /10 \xce\xbcm2 or 40 \xce\xbcm3) was significantly decreased in the presynaptic boutons of cortical neurons after RF-EMF exposure. Furthermore, qPCR and immunoblotting analyses revealed that the expression of synapsins I/II (Syns I/II) genes and proteins were significantly decreased in the cortical neurons of RF-EMF exposed mice. The present study suggested that alteration of SVs and Syn levels may result in alterations of neurotransmitters in the cerebral cortex following RF-EMF exposure. labels: #Animals#Cerebral Cortex#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Electromagnetic Fields#Male#Mice#Neurons#Radio Waves#Synaptic Vesicles'
b'Osteocyte apoptosis is the first reaction to estrogen depletion, thereby stimulating osteoclastic bone resorption resulting in bone loss. We investigated the effects of two different risedronate (RIS) doses (high and low) on osteocyte apoptosis, osteoclast activity and bone loss in ovariectomized rats. Forty rats with ovariectomy (OVX) and sham ovariectomy (SHAM) were divided into 4 groups: 1) SHAM rats treated with saline (SHAM); 2) OVX rats treated with saline (OVX); 3) OVX rats treated with low-dose RIS (OVX-LR, 0.08 \xce\xbcg/kg/day); 4) OVX rats treated with high-dose RIS (OVX-HR, 0.8 \xce\xbcg/kg/day). All animals were sacrificed 90 days after surgery for the examinations of osteocyte apoptosis by caspase-3 staining, osteoclast activity by TRAP staining and bone volume by micro-CT scanning in lumbar vertebral cancellous bone. Both low and high dose RIS significantly reduced caspase-3 positive osteocytes, empty lacunae and TRAP positive osteoclasts in OVX rats. Although the difference in caspase-3 positive osteocytes was not significant between the OVX-LR and OVX-HR groups, numerically these cells were significantly more prevalent in OVX-HR (not OVX-LR) group than in SHAM group. TRAP positive osteoclasts were significantly higher in OVX-LR group than in SHAM or OVX-HR group. There was no significant difference in bone volume among the OVX-LR, OVX-HR and SHAM groups, but lower in OVX group alone. However, significant increase in trabecular thickness only occurred in OVX-LR group. We conclude that both low and high dose RIS significantly inhibit osteocyte apoptosis and osteoclast activity in OVX rats, but the low-dose RIS has weaker effect on osteoclast activity. However, low-dose RIS preserves cancellous bone mass and microarchitecture as well as high-dose RIS after estrogen depletion. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Bone Resorption#Cancellous Bone#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Osteoclasts#Osteocytes#Ovariectomy#Protective Agents#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Risedronate Sodium'
b'INTRODUCTION: Almost 30 years ago, about 30% of Japanese hemophiliacs became infected with HIV-1 and hepatitis C virus (HCV) after receiving contaminated blood products. While several studies have reported the high efficacy and safety of direct acting antivirals (DAA) in HIV-1 co-infected patients, such data are limited in hemophiliacs.METHODS: We conducted a single-center, open-label study involving 27 Japanese patients (median age; 45 years) with inherited bleeding disorders who were co-infected with HCV/HIV-1. Patients with HCV genotype 1 (GT1) and GT4 received ledipasvir (90 mg) plus sofosbuvir (400 mg), those with HCV GT2 received sofosbuvir plus weight-based ribavirin, and those with HCV GT3 received daclatasvir (60 mg) plus sofosbuvir. Treatment was continued for 12 weeks in all patients. The primary endpoints were rate of sustained virologic response at 12 weeks after end of therapy (SVR12) and occurrence of adverse events during DAA therapy.RESULTS: Eighteen (67%) patients had had received interferon-based therapy, and 11 (41%) had compensated cirrhosis. HCV genotypes were GT1a 4 (15%), GT1b 16 (59%), GT1 undetermined 2 (7%), GT2a 1 (4%), GT3a 3 (11%) and GT4a 1 (4%). All patients were on combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) and had undetectable HIV-1 viral load (<20 copies/\xce\xbcL) at baseline. All patients achieved SVR12. Serious adverse events were observed in 3 patients: arteritis of the leg, which resolved after completion of DAA therapy, asymptomatic QT prolongation and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. cART failure was noted in one patient due to emergence of raltegravir resistance during ledipasvir/sofosbuvir treatment. Although \xce\xb1-fetoprotein, Mac-2 binding protein glycosylation isomer (M2BPGi), and Fibro Scan (FS) scores decreased in most patients during DAA therapy, M2BPGi (>2.0 cutoff index) and FS scores (>15.0 kPa) were still high in 6 patients at week 36.CONCLUSIONS: DAA therapy is effective in all patients. However, adverse events and efficacy of cART should be monitored closely. labels: #Adult#Antiviral Agents#Benzimidazoles#Coinfection#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Fluorenes#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Hemophilia A#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Imidazoles#Interferons#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#RNA, Viral#Sofosbuvir#Viral Load'
b"The enzyme tRNase Z, a member of the metallo-\xce\xb2-lactamase family, endonucleolytically removes 3' trailers from precursor tRNAs, preparing them for CCA addition and aminoacylation. The short form of tRNase Z, tRNase ZS, functions as a homodimer and is found in all prokaryotes and some eukaryotes. The long form, tRNase ZL, related to tRNase ZS through tandem duplication and found only in eukaryotes, possesses ~2,000-fold greater catalytic efficiency than tRNase ZS. tRNase ZL consists of related but diverged amino and carboxy domains connected by a flexible linker (also referred to as a flexible tether) and functions as a monomer. The amino domain retains the flexible arm responsible for substrate recognition and binding while the carboxy domain retains the active site. The linker region was explored by Ala-scanning through two conserved regions of D. melanogaster tRNase Z: NdomTprox, located at the carboxy end of the amino domain proximal to the linker, and Tflex, a flexible site in the linker. Periodic substitutions in a hydrophobic patch (F329 and L332) at the carboxy end of NdomTprox show 2,700 and 670-fold impairment relative to wild type, respectively, accompanied by reduced linker flexibility at N-T inside the Ndom- linker boundary. The Ala substitution for N378 in the Tflex region has 10-fold higher catalytic efficiency than wild type and locally decreased flexibility, while the Ala substitution at R382 reduces catalytic efficiency ~50-fold. These changes in pre-tRNA processing kinetics and protein flexibility are interpreted in light of a recent crystal structure for S. cerevisiae tRNase Z, suggesting transmission of local changes in hydrophobicity into the skeleton of the amino domain. labels: #Alanine#Amino Acid Substitution#Animals#Binding Sites#Catalysis#Catalytic Domain#Conserved Sequence#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Endoribonucleases#RNA, Transfer#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid"
b'The genetics and epigenetic processes associated with morphological organization are a principal aim of biology, ranging from cohesion between cells to shape and size of organisms. We investigate the post-embryonic development of Hypopharyngeal sclerite and cornua HPC and mandibles M of Drosophila gaucha larva. Integrated functioning of these Cephalopharyngeal skeleton parts of D. gaucha larva is essential for food acquisition, participating in locomotion and microhabitat selection. We examined two isolates by recording the growth of the HPC and M every 24 h for 8 days in parental, F1, F2 and backcross larvae. In F1 larvae, the HPC and M growth was similar to the parental. In F2 and backcross larvae, the growth was slower. Epistasis and dominance are the principal sources upon which the growth of HPC and M are based. Pleiotropic genes seem also to be involved in integrating the development of M and HPC. Our data suggest that hybridization of the isolates modified epigenetic processes involved in the development of those morphological structures of D. gaucha larva. labels: #Animals#Bone and Bones#Drosophila#Epistasis, Genetic#Hypopharynx#Larva#Mandible#Tooth'
b"According to estimates from Public Health England, by 2034 70% of adults are expected to be overweight or obese, therefore understanding the underpinning aetiology is a priority. Eating in response to negative affect contributes towards obesity, however, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Evidence that visceral afferent signals contribute towards the experience of emotion is accumulating rapidly, with the emergence of new influential models of 'active inference'. No longer viewed as a 'bottom up' process, new interoceptive facets based on 'top down' predictions have been proposed, although at present it is unclear which aspects of interoception contribute to aberrant eating behaviour and obesity. Study one examined the link between eating behaviour, body mass index and the novel interoceptive indices; interoceptive metacognitive awareness (IAw) and interoceptive prediction error (IPE), as well as the traditional measures; interoceptive accuracy (IAc) and interoceptive sensibility (IS). The dissociation between these interoceptive indices was confirmed. Emotional eaters were characterised by a heightened interoceptive signal but reduced meta-cognitive awareness of their interoceptive abilities. In addition, emotional eating correlated with IPE; effects that could not be accounted for by differences in anxiety and depression. Study two confirmed the positive association between interoceptive accuracy and emotional eating using a novel unbiased heartbeat discrimination task based on the method of constant stimuli. Results reveal new and important mechanistic insights into the processes that may underlie problematic affect regulation in overweight populations. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Body Mass Index#Depression#Eating#Emotions#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Interoception#Obesity#Overweight#Visceral Afferents#Young Adult"
b"PURPOSE: The Prosigna\xc2\xae breast cancer prognostic gene signature assay identifies a gene-expression profile that permits the classification of tumors into subtypes and gives a score for the risk of recurrence (ROR) at 10 years. The primary objective of this multicenter study was to evaluate the impact of Prosigna's assay information on physicians' adjuvant treatment decisions in patients with early-stage breast cancer. Secondary objectives were to assess confidence of practitioners in their therapeutic recommendations before and after the added information provided by the Prosigna assay; and to evaluate the emotional state of patients before and after the Prosigna test results.METHODS: Consecutive patients with invasive early-stage breast cancer were enrolled in a prospective, observational, multicenter study carried out in 8 hospitals in France. The Prosigna test was carried out on surgical specimens using the nCounter\xc2\xae Analysis System located at the Institut Curie. Both before and after receiving the Prosigna test results, physicians completed treatment confidence questionnaires and patients completed questionnaires concerning their state of anxiety, the difficulties felt in face of the therapy and quality of life. Information was also collected at 6 months regarding the physicians' opinion on the test results and the patients' degree of anxiety, difficulties with therapy and quality of life.RESULTS: Between March 2015 and January 2016, 8 study centers in France consecutively enrolled 210 postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor (ER) positive, human epidermal growth hormone-2 (HER-2) negative, and node negative tumors, either stage 1 or stage 2. Intrinsic tumor subtypes as assessed by the Prosigna test were 114 (58.2%) Luminal A, 79 (40.3%) Luminal B, 1 (0.5%) HER-2 enriched (HER-2E), and 2 (1.0%) basal-like. Before receiving the Prosigna test results, physicians categorized tumor subtypes based on immunohistochemistry (IHC) as Luminal A in 126 (64%) patients and Luminal B in 70 (36%) patients, an overall discordance rate of 25%. The availability of Prosigna assay results was significantly associated with the likelihood of change in treatment recommendations, with 34 patients (18%) having their treatment plan changed from Adjuvant Chemotherapy to No Adjuvant Chemotherapy or vice versa (p<0.001, Fisher's exact test). Prosigna test results also decreased patients' anxiety about the chosen adjuvant therapy, and improved emotional well-being and measures of personal perceptions of uncertainty.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this prospective decision impact study are consistent with 2 previous, identically designed studies carried out in Spain and Germany. The availability of Prosigna test results increased the confidence of treating physicians in their adjuvant treatment decisions, and led to an 18% change in chemotherapy treatment plan (from Adjuvant Chemotherapy to No Adjuvant Chemotherapy or vice versa). Prosigna testing decreased anxiety and improved measures of health-related quality of life in patients facing adjuvant therapy. The 25% discordance between Prosigna test and IHC subtyping underlines the importance of molecular testing for optimal systemic therapy indications in early breast cancer. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#France#Health Planning Guidelines#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Physicians#Prospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated system (Cas) is widely used for mediating the knock-in of foreign DNA into the genomes of various organisms. Here, we report a process of CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in via non-homologous end joining by the direct injection of Cas9/gRNA ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) in the crustacean Daphnia magna, which is a model organism for studies on toxicology, ecology, and evolution. First, we confirmed the cleavage activity of Cas9 RNPs comprising purified Cas9 proteins and gRNAs in D. magna. We used a gRNA that targets exon 10 of the eyeless gene. Cas9 proteins were incubated with the gRNAs and the resulting Cas9 RNPs were injected into D. magna eggs, which led to a typical phenotype of the eyeless mutant, i.e., eye deformity. The somatic and heritable mutagenesis efficiencies were up to 96% and 40%, respectively. Second, we tested the CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in of a plasmid by the injection of Cas9 RNPs. The donor DNA plasmid harboring the fluorescent reporter gene was designed to contain the gRNA recognition site. The co-injection of Cas9 RNPs together with the donor DNAs resulted in generation of one founder animal that produced fluorescent progenies. This transgenic Daphnia had donor DNA at the targeted genomic site, which suggested the concurrent cleavage of the injected plasmid DNA and genomic DNA. Owing to its simplicity and ease of experimental design, we suggest that the CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in method represents a promising tool for studying functional genomics in D. magna. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Base Sequence#CRISPR-Cas Systems#DNA End-Joining Repair#Daphnia#Gene Knock-In Techniques#Gene Knockout Techniques#Genes, Reporter#Genetic Loci#Germ Cells#Phenotype#Plasmids#Ribonucleoproteins#Transgenes'
b'Sulfur trafficking in living organisms relies on transpersulfuration reactions consisting in the enzyme-catalyzed transfer of S atoms via activated persulfidic S across protein-protein interfaces. The recent elucidation of the mechanistic basis for transpersulfuration in the CsdA-CsdE model system has paved the way for a better understanding of its role under oxidative stress. Herein we present the crystal structure of the oxidized, inactivated CsdE dimer at 2.4 \xc3\x85 resolution. The structure sheds light into the activation of the Cys61 nucleophile on its way from a solvent-secluded position in free CsdE to a fully extended conformation in the persulfurated CsdA-CsdE complex. Molecular dynamics simulations of available CsdE structures allow to delineate the sequence of conformational changes underwent by CsdE and to pinpoint the key role played by the deprotonation of the Cys61 thiol. The low-energy subunit orientation in the disulfide-bridged CsdE dimer demonstrates the likely physiologic relevance of this oxidative dead-end form of CsdE, suggesting that CsdE could act as a redox sensor in vivo. labels: #Carbon-Sulfur Lyases#Crystallography, X-Ray#DEAD-box RNA Helicases#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Proteins#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Oxidative Stress#Protein Conformation#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Protein Multimerization#Sulfur'
b'The polyamine norspermidine is one of the major polyamines synthesized by Vibrionales and has also been found in various aquatic organisms. Norspermidine is among the environmental signals that positively regulate Vibrio cholerae biofilm formation. The NspS/MbaA signaling complex detects extracellular norspermidine and mediates the response to this polyamine. Norspermidine binding to the NspS periplasmic binding protein is thought to inhibit the phosphodiesterase activity of MbaA, increasing levels of the biofilm-promoting second messenger cyclic diguanylate monophosphate, thus enhancing biofilm formation. V. cholerae can also synthesize norspermidine using the enzyme NspC as well as import it from the environment. Deletion of the nspC gene was shown to reduce accumulation of bacteria in biofilms, leading to the conclusion that intracellular norspermidine is also a positive regulator of biofilm formation. Because V. cholerae uses norspermidine to synthesize the siderophore vibriobactin it is possible that intracellular norspermidine is required to obtain sufficient amounts of iron, which is also necessary for robust biofilm formation. The objective of this study was to assess the relative contributions of intracellular and extracellular norspermidine to the regulation of biofilm formation in V. cholerae. We show the biofilm defect of norspermidine synthesis mutants does not result from an inability to produce vibriobactin as vibriobactin synthesis mutants do not have diminished biofilm forming abilities. Furthermore, our work shows that extracellular, but not intracellular norspermidine, is mainly responsible for promoting biofilm formation. We establish that the NspS/MbaA signaling complex is the dominant mediator of biofilm formation in response to extracellular norspermidine, rather than norspermidine synthesized by NspC or imported into the cell. labels: #Biofilms#Catechols#Cyclic GMP#Iron#Oxazoles#Periplasmic Binding Proteins#Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases#Signal Transduction#Spermidine#Vibrio cholerae'
