b'Commercial shellfish aquaculture is vulnerable to the impacts of ocean acidification driven by increasing carbon dioxide (CO2 ) absorption by the ocean as well as to coastal acidification driven by land run off and rising sea level. These drivers of environmental acidification have deleterious effects on biomineralization. We investigated shell biomineralization of selectively bred and wild-type families of the Sydney rock oyster Saccostrea glomerata in a study of oysters being farmed in estuaries at aquaculture leases differing in environmental acidification. The contrasting estuarine pH regimes enabled us to determine the mechanisms of shell growth and the vulnerability of this species to contemporary environmental acidification. Determination of the source of carbon, the mechanism of carbon uptake and use of carbon in biomineral formation are key to understanding the vulnerability of shellfish aquaculture to contemporary and future environmental acidification. We, therefore, characterized the crystallography and carbon uptake in the shells of S.\xc2\xa0glomerata, resident in habitats subjected to coastal acidification, using high-resolution electron backscatter diffraction and carbon isotope analyses (as \xc3\xa413 C). We show that oyster families selectively bred for fast growth and families selected for disease resistance can alter their mechanisms of calcite crystal biomineralization, promoting resilience to acidification. The responses of S.\xc2\xa0glomerata to acidification in their estuarine habitat provide key insights into mechanisms of mollusc shell growth under future climate change conditions. Importantly, we show that selective breeding in oysters is likely to be an important global mitigation strategy for sustainable shellfish aquaculture to withstand future climate-driven change to habitat acidification. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Nonreductive biomineralization of uranium is a promising methodology for the removal of uranium contamination as it provides stable products and wide applications. However, the efficiency of mineralization has become a major obstacle for the removal of uranium contamination by this technology, and the mineralizing process still remains largely obscure. To solve this problem in a practical way, we report a fast nonreductive biomineralization process of uranium by Bacillus subtilis ATCC-6633, a widespread bacterium with environmentally-friendly applications. In this system, we demonstrated that the size and crystallization degree of the obtained nonreduced biomineralized products is significantly superior to the results reported in the literature under comparable conditions. Meanwhile, combined with SEM, TEM, and FT-IR, a mineralization process of uranium transfer from the outer surface of the Bacillus subtilis ATCC-6633 to the internal has been clearly observed, which was accompanied by the evolution of amorphous U(VI) to crystalline uramphite. This work uncovers whole-process insights into the nonreductive biomineralization of uranium by Bacillus subtilis ATCC-6633, paving a new way for the rapid and sustained removal of uranium contamination. labels: #Biomineralization'
b"Although geographical patterns of species' sensitivity to environmental changes are defined by interacting multiple stressors, little is known about compensatory processes shaping regional differences in organismal vulnerability. Here, we examine large-scale spatial variations in biomineralization under heterogeneous environmental gradients of temperature, salinity and food availability across a 30\xc2\xb0 latitudinal range (3,334\xc2\xa0km), to test whether plasticity in calcareous shell production and composition, from juveniles to large adults, mediates geographical patterns of resilience to climate change in critical foundation species, the mussels Mytilus edulis and M.\xc2\xa0trossulus. We find shell calcification decreased towards high latitude, with mussels producing thinner shells with a higher organic content in polar than temperate regions. Salinity was the best predictor of within-region differences in mussel shell deposition, mineral and organic composition. In polar, subpolar, and Baltic low-salinity environments, mussels produced thin shells with a thicker external organic layer (periostracum), and an increased proportion of calcite (prismatic layer, as opposed to aragonite) and organic matrix, providing potentially higher resistance against dissolution in more corrosive waters. Conversely, in temperate, higher salinity regimes, thicker, more calcified shells with a higher aragonite (nacreous layer) proportion were deposited, which suggests enhanced protection under increased predation pressure. Interacting effects of salinity and food availability on mussel shell composition predict the deposition of a thicker periostracum and organic-enriched prismatic layer under forecasted future environmental conditions, suggesting a capacity for increased protection of high-latitude populations from ocean acidification. These findings support biomineralization plasticity as a potentially advantageous compensatory mechanism conferring Mytilus species a protective capacity for quantitative and qualitative trade-offs in shell deposition as a response to regional alterations of abiotic and biotic conditions in future environments. Our work illustrates that compensatory mechanisms, driving plastic responses to the spatial structure of multiple stressors, can define geographical patterns of unanticipated species resilience to global environmental change. labels: #Biomineralization"
b"This study evaluated the effect of hypertension on tissue response and biomineralization capacity of white Mineral Trioxide Aggregate (MTA), High-plasticity MTA (MTA HP), and Biodentine\xc2\xae (BDT) in rats. Polyethylene tubes filled with MTA, MTA HP, BDT, and the control group (empty tubes) were placed into the dorsal subcutaneous tissue of 32 male rats (16 normotensive (NT) and 16 hypertensive rats - 8 per group). After 7 and 30 days, the polyethylene tubes surrounded by connective tissue were removed, fixed, and embedded in histological resin. The mean number of inflammatory cells was estimated in HE-stained sections, biomineralization was quantified as area (\xc2\xb5m2) by Kossa (VK) staining, and examination by polarized light (LP) microscopy was performed. The differences amongst the groups were analyzed statistically by the Mann-Whitney or Student's t test, according to Shapiro-Wilk test of normality (p < 0.05). The inflammatory responses to all materials were greater in hypertensive rats than in NT rats (p < 0.05). Positive VK staining in MTA and BDT were more pronounced in NT rats at 7 and 30 days (p < 0.05). Birefringent structures in LP for MTA, MTA HP, and BDT were more pronounced in NT rats at 7 days (p<0.05). In rats, hypertension was able to increase inflammatory infiltrate and decrease biomineralization of the tested materials. labels: #Biomineralization"
b"New mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) formulations are constantly introduced in the market, usually in a powder-and-liquid form. Bioceramic (Bio-C) Repair is a ready-for-use material suggested as substitute for MTA, but its properties need to be studied. This study evaluated the cytotoxicity, biocompatibility and biomineralization of Bio-C Repair compared to MTA Repair High-Plasticity (MTA-HP) and white MTA-Angelus (MTA-Ang). L929 fibroblasts were exposed to material-extracted (undiluted, \xc2\xbd and ? dilutions; 6, 24 and 48h). Polyethylene tubes with material or empty (control) were implanted in the subcutaneous tissue of rats. After 7 and 30 days (n=8), the specimens were removed for analysis (hematoxylin-eosin, von Kossa and polarized light). Cytotoxicity data were statistically analyzed by two-way ANOVA, and biocompatibility data by Kruskal-Wallis and Dunn tests (p<0.05). The cells exposed to the materials had greater viability at most of the periods compared with control (p<0.05). The undiluted and \xc2\xbd dilutions of MTA-HP extract showed higher cytocompatibility than Bio-C Repair at 6 h and with the ? dilution at 24 h (p<0.05); the white MTA-Ang showed higher cytocompatibility than Bio-C Repair at most of periods (p<0.05). The undiluted white MTA-Ang extract had higher cytocompatibility at 6 and 24h than MTA-HP, and with \xc2\xbd dilution at 24h (p<0.05). The materials' cytocompatibility was similar at 48h for most dilutions (p>0.05). At 7 and 30 days, the groups had moderate and mild inflammation, respectively (p>0.05). All materials showed positive structures for von Kossa and polarized light. In conclusion, Bio-C Repair had similar cytocompatibility to MTA-based materials is biocompatible and induces biomineralization. labels: #Biomineralization"
b'Green synthesis of precise inorganic nanomaterials is a major challenge. Magnetotactic bacteria biomineralise magnetite nanoparticles (MNPs) within membrane vesicles (magnetosomes), which are embedded with dedicated proteins that control nanocrystal formation. Some such proteins are used in vitro to control MNP formation in green synthesis; however, these membrane proteins self-aggregate, making their production and use in vitro challenging and difficult to scale. Here, we provide an alternative solution by displaying active loops from biomineralisation proteins Mms13 and MmsF on stem-loop coiled-coil scaffold proteins (Mms13cc/MmsFcc). These artificial biomineralisation proteins form soluble, stable alpha-helical hairpin monomers, and MmsFcc successfully controls the formation of MNP when added to magnetite synthesis, regulating synthesis comparably to native MmsF. This study demonstrates how displaying active loops from membrane proteins on coiled-coil scaffolds removes membrane protein solubility issues, while retains activity, enabling a generic approach to readily-expressible, versatile, artificial membrane proteins for more accessible study and exploitation. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in the regulation of cell physiological activity and the reconstruction of extracellular environment. Matrix vesicles (MVs) are a type of EVs released by bone-related functional cells, and they participate in the regulation of cell mineralization. Here, we report bioinspired MVs embedded with black phosphorus (BP) and functionalized with cell-specific aptamer (denoted as Apt-bioinspired MVs) for stimulating biomineralization. The aptamer can direct bioinspired MVs to targeted cells, and the increasing concentration of inorganic phosphate originating from BP can facilitate cell biomineralization. The photothermal effect of the Apt-bioinspired MVs can also promote the biomineralization process by stimulating the upregulated expression of heat shock proteins and alkaline phosphatase. In addition, the Apt-bioinspired MVs display outstanding bone regeneration performance. Our strategy provides a method for designing bionic tools to study the mechanisms of biological processes and advance the development of medical engineering. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The effect of menaquinone-7 isolated from cheonggukjang was comparatively investigated with vitamin K1 and menaquinone-4 on cell differentiation and mineralization of the osteoblastic cell line MC3T3-E1. Results indicated that all vitamin K species significantly increased MC3T3-E1 cell proliferation, cellular alkaline phosphatase activity, osteocalcin synthesis, and calcium deposition in a dose-dependent manner. Menaquinone-4 and menaquinone-7 had more potent effects on calcium deposition than vitamin K1, and their effects were only partly reduced by warfarin (\xc3\xa3-carboxylation inhibitor) treatment, while warfarin abolished the induction activity of vitamin K1 on calcification. This suggests that vitamin K1 and K2 (menaquinone-4 & menaquinone-7) may have different mechanisms in stimulating osteoblast mineralization. In addition, the mRNA expression ratio of osteoprotegerin and the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kB ligand was also dramatically increased by treatment with vitamin K1 (62%), menaquinone-4 (247%), and menaquinone-7 (329%), suggesting that vitamin K may suppress the formation of osteoclast by up-regulating the ratio of osteoprotegerin/receptor activator of nuclear factor-kB ligand in osteoblasts. These results provide compelling evidence that vitamin K1, menaquinone-4, and menaquinone-7 all can promote bone health, which might be associated with elevations in the osteoprotegerin/receptor activator of nuclear factor-kB ligand ratio. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Mollusk biomineralization is a process controlled by a complex interplay of proteins, ions and external regulators. In spite of several studies, there is a lack of knowledge of who (molecules involved), how (mechanism) and why (evolution and adaptation) mollusk are designed as we know them. In this study, a shell matrix protein, N66, has been purified and characterized biochemically from the shell of Pteria sterna. Two protein bands with carbohydrates associated were separated with a molecular weight of ~60 and 64\xe2\x80\xafkDa. It has carbonic anhydrase activity and it is able to form crystal polymorphs of calcium carbonate in vitro. The mRNA N66 was obtained from the mantle tissue of Pteria sterna and the deduced amino acid sequence contained a carbonic anhydrase (CA) domain and a Asn/Gly-rich domain (aa243-439). The CA domain contained three His residues acting as zinc ligands and the gate-keeper residues present in all \xc3\xa1-CAs (Glu166-Thr525), being thus similar to the human isoform hCAVII. Also, to test whether the posttranslational modifications present on the native N66 affects the CA activity and its crystallization capability in vitro, a recombinant N66 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli and functionally characterized. Our results show that recombinant N66 has higher CA activity and produce larger size crystals in vitro than the native N66 protein, suggesting that intrinsic properties of the native N66, such as glycosylations and/or phosphorylations, might regulate its activity. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Sequestration of arsenic to biogenic sulfide minerals is known from As-contaminated anoxic environments. Despite numerous successful laboratory experiments, the process remains difficult to predict in moderate arsenic conditions. We performed microcosm experiments using naturally contaminated groundwater (containing ca. 6\xc2\xa0mg/L As) and natural organic matter (NOM) particles both collected from wetland soil. Macroscopic realgar precipitates, occasionally accompanied by bonazziite, a FeS phase, elementary S, calcite, and whewellite, appeared after 4 to 18\xc2\xa0months. Realgar only precipitated in microcosms moderately poisoned by azide or antibiotics and those in which oxidation of hydrogen sulfide to sulfur took place. The biomineralization process was not affected by the presence of additional carbon sources or the diversity, community structure, and functional composition of the microbial community. Hydrogen sulfide concentration was greater in the realgar-free microcosms, suggesting that arsenic thiolation prevented precipitation of realgar. We compared our data to available microbial community data from soils with different rates of realgar precipitation, and found that the communities from realgar-encrusted NOM particles usually showed limited sulfate reduction and the presence of fermentative metabolisms, whereas communities from realgar-free NOM particles were strongly dominated by sulfate reducers. We argue that the limited sulfate supply and intensive fermentation amplify reducing conditions, which make arsenic sulfide precipitation plausible in high-sulfate, low-arsenic groundwaters. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Re-directing mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) chondrogenesis towards a non-hypertrophic articular chondrocyte-(AC)-like phenotype is important for improving articular cartilage neogenesis to enhance clinical cartilage repair strategies. This study is the first to demonstrate that high levels of non-canonical WNT5A followed by WNT11 and LEF1 discriminated MSC chondrogenesis from AC re-differentiation. Moreover, \xc3\xa2-catenin seemed incompletely silenced in differentiating MSCs, which altogether suggested a role for WNT signaling in hypertrophic MSC differentiation. WNT inhibition with the small molecule IWP-2 supported MSC chondrogenesis according to elevated proteoglycan deposition and reduced the characteristic upregulation of BMP4, BMP7 and their target ID1, as well as IHH and its target GLI1 observed during endochondral differentiation. Along with the pro-hypertrophic transcription factor MEF2C, multiple hypertrophic downstream targets including IBSP and alkaline phosphatase activity were reduced by IWP-2, demonstrating that WNT activity drives BMP and hedgehog upregulation, and MSC hypertrophy. WNT inhibition almost matched the strong anti-hypertrophic capacity of pulsed parathyroid hormone-related protein application, and both outperformed suppression of BMP signaling with dorsomorphin, which also reduced cartilage matrix deposition. Yet, hypertrophic marker expression under IWP-2 remained above AC level, and in vivo mineralization and ectopic bone formation were reduced but not eliminated. Overall, the strong anti-hypertrophic effects of IWP-2 involved inhibition but not silencing of pro-hypertrophic BMP and IHH pathways, and more advanced silencing of WNT activity as well as combined application of IHH or BMP antagonists should next be considered to install articular cartilage neogenesis from human MSCs. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Microorganisms with the function of biological mineralization were isolated from a soil. The bacteria were identified by 16S rRNA as Bacillus sp and possessed a significant lead removal ability. Lead removal experiment indicated that the mathematical model of \xc3\xa7=\xc3\xa7max-\xc3\xa7cet/k fit the variation of removal rate with time well. Different from the previous studies, this work discovered that the culture medium had the ability to remove aqueous lead (Pb2+). At the same dosage, the removal rates of Pb2+ followed the order of: cells\xe2\x80\xaf<\xe2\x80\xafculture medium\xe2\x80\xaf<\xe2\x80\xafmetabolites\xe2\x80\xaf<\xe2\x80\xafbacterial suspension. The lead removal mechanism was further explored using the techniques of XRD, FTIR, and SEM. The results showed that during the fermentation, the bacteria decomposed phosphate-containing organic compounds in the culture medium to generate a large amount of phosphate groups on the surface of the bacterial cells. Pb2+ was precipitated in the form of Pb3(PO4)2 stable minerals. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Although bioactive glasses have been traditionally used in the clinical practice for a long period, their uncontrollable architecture and poor mechanical robustness remains a neck bottle for further biomedical applications. In this study, we firstly developed a series of mesoporous bioactive glass (MBG) nanorods with different aspect ratios and adjustable pore sizes via a thermal-mediation approach. The nanorods were then dispersed in MBG sol, followed by impregnation with sponge and in situ gelation. After sinter treatment, the sponge template was removed to offer interconnected macroporous structure, while the intercross-linked MBG nanorods afford meso- and micro- pores. The resulting scaffolds presented a 2-fold reinforcement in compressive strength (1.03\xe2\x80\x89MPa) which is matchable to that of cancellous bone. When their mesopore size was tuned to 7.38\xe2\x80\x89nm, the scaffolds enabled an optimal protein adsorption capacity and sustainable release property. Upon 3-day incubation in simulated body fluid, the scaffolds with macro/meso/micro porous structure present more needle-like hydroxyapatites, indicating their promoted biomineralization capacity. After culture with rat bone marrow stromal cells for 1 day, the hierarchical porous scaffolds displayed good cell attachment and proliferation ability, suggesting their potential as a kind of scaffolds for tissue engineering. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Nanomaterials with intrinsic enzyme-like activities (nanozymes) have emerged as promising agents for cancer theranostics strategies. However, size-controllable synthesis of nanozymes and their targeting modifications are still challenging. Here, we report a monodispersed ferritin-based cobalt nanozyme (HccFn(Co3O4)) that specifically targets and visualizes clinical hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues. The cobalt nanozyme is biomimetically synthesized within the protein shell of the HCC-targeted ferritin (HccFn) nanocage, which is enabled by the display of HCC cell-specific peptide SP94 on the surface of ferritin through a genetic engineering approach. The intrinsic peroxidase-like activity of HccFn(Co3O4) nanozymes catalyzes the substrates to make color reaction to visualize HCC tumor tissues. We examined 424 clinical HCC specimens and verified that HccFn(Co3O4) nanozymes distinguish HCC tissues from normal liver tissues with a sensitivity of 63.5% and specificity of 79.1%, which is comparable with that of the clinically used HCC-specific marker \xc3\xa1 fetoprotein. Moreover, the pathological analysis indicates that the HccFn(Co3O4) nanozyme staining result is a potential predictor of prognosis in HCC patients. Staining intensity is positively correlated to tumor differentiation degree ( P = 0.0246) and tumor invasion ( P < 0.0001) and negatively correlated with overall survival ( P = 0.0084) of HCC patients. Together, our study demonstrates that ferritin is an excellent platform for size-controllable synthesis and targeting modifications of nanozymes, and the HccFn(Co3O4) nanozyme is a promising reagent for prognostic diagnosis of HCC. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'In this study, zinc oxide nanoparticle (ZnO-NPs) and also chitosan\xe2\x80\x91zinc oxide (CS-ZnO-NPs) nano-hybrid were synthesized by a rapid ultrasound assisted co-precipitation method. The morphology, chemical bonding, crystal structure, UV absorption, toxicity and antibacterial properties of the CS-ZnO-NPs and ZnO-NPs were characterized. The FE-SEM (field emission scanning electron microscopy) micrographs and XRD (X-ray diffraction) analysis revealed that the used technique led to the preparation of homogeneous, ultra-thin (thickness of 20-30\xe2\x80\xafnm) and highly pure ZnO sheets for the both kinds of nanoparticles. The obtained results also demonstrated a superior performance of CS-ZnO-NPs hybrid rather than ZnO-NPs in terms of antibacterial activity, cell viability and UV absorption. It was deduced that the designed biomineralization technique was a very fast and successful strategy to provide a ZnO hybrid with elevated bacterial growth inhibition and bio-safety. Furthermore, the experimental data of antibacterial analyses were compared with the curves obtained from modified Gompertz model and good accordance was observed. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'BACKGROUND: Cultured pearls are unique gems produced by living organisms, mainly molluscs of the Pinctada genus, through the biomineralization properties of pearl sac tissue. Improvement of P. margaritifera pearl quality is one of the biggest challenges that Polynesian research has faced to date. To achieve this goal, a better understanding of the complex mechanisms related to nacre and pearl formation is essential and can now be approached through the use of massive parallel sequencing technologies. The aim of this study was to use RNA-seq to compare whole transcriptome expression of pearl sacs that had producing pearls with high and low quality. For this purpose, a comprehensive reference transcriptome of P. margaritifera was built based on multi-tissue sampling (mantle, gonad, whole animal), including different living stages (juvenile, adults) and phenotypes (colour morphotypes, sex).RESULTS: Strikingly, few genes were found to be up-regulated for high quality pearls (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8916) compared to the up-regulated genes in low quality pearls (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89246). Biomineralization genes up-regulated in low quality pearls were specific to prismatic and prism-nacre layers. Alternative splicing was further identified in several key biomineralization genes based on a recent P. margaritifera draft genome.CONCLUSION: This study lifts the veil on the multi-level regulation of biomineralization genes associated with pearl quality determination. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The bacterium Sporosarcina pasteurii (SP) is known for its ability to cause the phenomenon of microbially induced calcium carbonate precipitation (MICP). We explored bacterial participation in the initial stages of the MICP process at the cellular length scale under two different growth environments (a) liquid culture (b) MICP in a soft agar (0.5%) column. In the liquid culture, ex-situ imaging of the cellular environment indicated that S. pasteurii was facilitating nucleation of nanoscale crystals of calcium carbonate on bacterial cell surface and its growth via ureolysis. During the same period, the meso-scale environment (bulk medium) was found to have overgrown calcium carbonate crystals. The effect of media components (urea, CaCl2), presence of live and dead in the growth medium were explored. The agar column method allows for in-situ visualization of the phenomena, and using this platform, we found conclusive evidence of the bacterial cell surface facilitating formation of nanoscale crystals in the microenvironment. Here also the bulk environment or the meso-scale environment was found to possess overgrown calcium carbonate crystals. Extensive elemental analysis using Energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) and X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), confirmed that the crystals to be calcium carbonate, and two different polymorphs (calcite and vaterite) were identified. Active participation of S. pasteurii cell surface as the site of calcium carbonate precipitation has been shown using EDS elemental mapping with Scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Cadmium (Cd) is a highly toxic metal that can affect human health and environmental safety. The purpose of this study was to research the removal of Cd from an environmental perspective. In this article, four highly urease-active strains (CZW-2, CZW-5, CZW-9 and CZW-12) were isolated from an abandoned mine and their phylogenetic trees were analyzed. The maximum enzyme activities, the mineralized precipitate and the removal rates of these strains were compared. The results showed that CZW-2 had the highest urease activity at 51.6 U/mL, and the removal rates of CZW-2, CZW-5, CZW-9 and CZW-12 after 120 h were 80.10%, 72.64%, 76.70% and 73.40%, with an initial concentration of Cd of 2 mM in the Cd precipitation experiments. XRD (X-ray diffractometer), EDS (Energy dispersive spectrometer) and FTIR (Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy) analysis indicated that the mineralized precipitate was CdCO\xe2\x82\x83. SEM (Scanning electron microscopy) analysis revealed that the diameter of the oval-shaped mineralized product ranked from 0.5 to 2 \xc3\xacm. These strains were used to remedy Cd-contaminated soil, and five different fractions of Cd were measured. Compared with the control, the results of spraying pre-cultured strains containing 2% urea to remove Cd from contaminated soils showed that the exchangeable fraction of Cd decreased by 53.30%, 27.78%, 42.54% and 53.80%, respectively, whereas the carbonate-bound fraction increased by 55.42%, 20.27%, 39.67% and 34.36%, respectively, after one month. These data show that these strains can effectively reduce the bioavailability and mobility of Cd in contaminated soils. The results indicate that biomineralization based on the decomposition of substrate urea can be applied to remedy heavy contaminated soil and water. labels: #Biomineralization'
b"Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used as flame retardants and challenges for water treatment due to their persistence and toxicity. In this study, the reduction of 2'2'4'4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-47) was investigated in a nano-bio-integrated system. Results showed that the introducing of P.\xc2\xa0putida could markedly accelerate the demineralization of BDE-47 in nZVI/Pd-P.p system; the continuous generation of acidic metaboliates by P.\xc2\xa0putida could decrease pH, which could alleviate the surface passivation to some extent, resulting in the releasing of Fe2+ and high generation of H2O2, the shift in reactive oxygen species from Fe(IV) to \xe2\x80\xa2OH. The BDE-47 was firstly debrominated to the DE by the highly reductive [Pd\xc2\xb72H] generated by nZVI/Pd, then oxidized to bromophenol and phenol, catechol as well as hydroquinone via the P.\xc2\xa0putida strain and the Fenton-like system. The toxicity assays confirmed the combined system could avert generation of nocuous intermediates, and could be an alternative strategy for complete remediation of recalcitrant POPs. labels: #Biomineralization"
b'The potential of electrospun polydioxanone (PDX) mats as scaffolds for skeletal tissue regeneration was significantly enhanced through improvement of the cell-mediated biomimetic mineralization and multicellular response. This was achieved by blending PDX ( i) with poly(hydroxybutyrate- co-valerate) (PHBV) in the presence of hydroxyapatite (HA) and ( ii) with aloe vera (AV) extract containing a mixture of acemannan/glucomannan. In an exhaustive study, the behavior of the most relevant cell lines involved in the skeletal tissue healing cascade, i.e. fibroblasts, macrophages, endothelial cells and preosteoblasts, on the scaffolds was investigated. The scaffolds were shown to be nontoxic, to exhibit insignificant inflammatory responses in macrophages, and to be degradable by macrophage-secreted enzymes. As a result of different phase separation in PDX/PHBV/HA and PDX/AV blend mats, cells interacted differentially. Presumably due to varying tension states of cell-matrix interactions, thinner microtubules and significantly more cell adhesion sites and filopodia were formed on PDX/AV compared to PDX/PHBV/HA. While PDX/PHBV/HA supported micrometer-sized spherical particles, nanosized rod-like HA was observed to nucleate and grow on PDX/AV fibers, allowing the mineralized PDX/AV scaffold to retain its porosity over a longer time for cellular infiltration. Finally, PDX/AV exhibited better in vivo biocompatibility compared to PDX/PHBV/HA, as indicated by the reduced fibrous capsule thickness and enhanced blood vessel formation. Overall, PDX/AV blend mats showed a significantly enhanced potential for skeletal tissue regeneration compared to the already promising PDX/PHBV/HA blends. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Scopelophila ligulata is an Fe-hyperaccumulator moss growing in acidic environments, but the mechanism of Fe accumulation remains unknown. To understand the mechanism, we determined Fe species in S. ligulata samples. The moss samples were collected from four sites in Japan. The concentrations of Fe, P, S, Cl, and K in them were measured by induced coupled plasma mass spectrometry. Fe species in some of them were determined by M?ssbauer spectroscopy and were confirmed by X-ray diffraction analysis. Fe species in S. ligulata samples were determined to be jarosite, ferritin, high-spin Fe(II) species, and akaganeite. To our knowledge, this is the first report on the biomineralization of jarosite in mosses. This result, combined with the fact that bacteria, a fungus, and a grass mineralize jarosite, suggests that its biomineralization is a common characteristic in a wide variety of living organisms. These findings indicate that the biomineralization of jarosite occurs not only in the region-specific species but in species adapted to a low-pH and metal-contaminated environment in different regions, provide a better understanding of the mechanism of Fe accumulation in the Fe-hyperaccumulator moss S. ligulata, and offer new insights into the biomineralization of jarosite. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Testosterone (T) has been suggested as a promising agent in the bone osteointegration when incorporated in a bioceramic/polymer combination for the local application. The objective of this study was to evaluate the activity of a testosterone composite of poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), polycaprolactone (PCL), and biphasic calcium phosphate (BCP) as a strategy for enhancing its osteogenic effect and to evaluate tissue response to the composite implantation. PLGA/PCL/BCP/T and PLGA/PCL/BCP composites were prepared and characterized using thermal analysis. Composite morphology and surface characteristics were assessed by SEM and EDS. The evaluations of in vitro effects of testosterone composite on osteoblasts viability, alkaline phosphatase activity, collagen production, osteocalcin concentration, quantification of mineralization, and nitric oxide concentration, after 7, 14, and 21\xc2\xa0days. Testosterone was successfully incorporated and composites showed a homogeneously distributed porous structure. The PLGA/PCL/BCP/T composite had a stimulatory effect on osteoblastic activity on the parameters evaluated, except to nitric oxide production. After 60\xc2\xa0days, the PLGA/PCL/BCP/T composite showed no chronic inflammatory infiltrate, whereas the PLGA/PCL/BCP composite showed mild chronic inflammatory infiltrate. Angiogenesis, cellular adsorption, and fibrous deposit were observed on the surfaces of implanted composites. The composites in combination with testosterone can be exploited to investigate the use of this scaffold for bone integration. labels: #Biomineralization'
b"AIM: To evaluate the inflammatory response, biomineralization and production of osteocalcin (OCN), osteopontin (OPN), and bone sialoprotein (BSP) of a new root filling material for primary teeth (Bio-C Pulpecto) compared to MTA.DESIGN: Polyethylene tubes containing Bio-C Pulpecto, MTA, and empty tubes were implanted into the dorsal connective tissue. After 7, 15, 30, 60, and 90\xc2\xa0days, the tubes with surrounding tissue were removed and histologically processed to be analysed using haematoxylin and eosin, von Kossa staining, or no staining for observation under polarized light and immunohistochemistry for the detection of OCN, OPN, and BSP. The Kruskal-Wallis test was used followed by Dunn's test. The significance level was set at 5%.RESULTS: The inflammatory response observed with MTA and Bio-C Pulpecto was more exacerbated until the 15th day and decreased from 30\xc2\xa0days on. No significant difference was found between control, MTA, and Bio-C Pulpecto (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05). Bio-C Pulpecto and MTA showed positivity for von Kossa and birefringent to polarized light. The immunolabelling for OCN, OPN, and BSP was more intense for MTA and Bio-C Pulpecto on days 60 and 90 (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSION: Bio-C Pulpecto was biocompatible, induced biomineralization and was immunopositive for osteogenic markers such as OCN, OPN, and BSP, similarly to MTA. labels: #Biomineralization"
b'Understanding the biomineralization pathways in living biological species is a grand challenge owing to the difficulties in monitoring the mineralization process at sub-nanometer scales. Here, we monitored the nucleation and growth of magnetosome nanoparticles in bacteria and in real time using a transmission electron microscope (TEM). To enable biomineralization within the bacteria, we subcultured magnetotactic bacteria grown in iron-depleted medium and then mixed them with iron-rich medium within graphene liquid cells (GLCs) right before imaging the bacteria under the microscope. Using in situ electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS), the oxidation state of iron in the biomineralized magnetosome was analysed to be magnetite with trace amount of hematite. The increase of mass density of biomineralized magnetosomes as a function of incubation time indicated that the bacteria maintained their functionality during the in situ TEM imaging. Our results underpin that GLCs enables a new platform to observe biomineralization events in living biological species at unprecedented spatial resolution. Understanding the biomineralization processes in living organisms facilitates the design of biomimetic materials, and will enable a paradigm shift in understanding the evolution of biological species. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Recently, the biomineralization of enzyme in metal-organic-framework (enzyme-MOF) composite have shown a great potential to increase enzymes stability without compromising their activity; hence, it is desirable for its applications in biosensing devices. Nonetheless, most of the enzyme-MOF research has been focusing on enzyme encapsulation in particle form, which limits its synthesis flexibility for practical applications because of its requirement for postsynthesis immobilization onto solid support. Therefore, to develop a diagnostic device out of the biomineralized enzyme, surface patterning and integration of microfluidic system offers many advantages. In this work, mussel-inspired polydopamine/polyethyleneimine (PDA/PEI) coating is employed to pattern enzyme-MOF in microfluidic channels and exploit the wettability gradient for "pumpless transportation" effect. As a proof of concept, we combine a cascade reaction of glucose oxidase (GOx) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) enzymes to detect glucose into a patterned zeolitic imidazole framework-8 (ZIF-8) thin film on a flexible polymeric substrate. The results show that the ZIF-8/GOx&HRP in situ composites on PDA/PEI patterns have good acid and thermal stability compared with samples without ZIF-8. ZIF-8/GOx&HRP in situ shows high selectivity toward glucose, linear sensitivity of 0.00303 Abs/\xc3\xacM, and the limit of detection of 8 \xc3\xacM glucose concentration. An unexpected benefit of this approach is the ability of the ZIF-8 thin-film structure to provide a diffusion limiting effect for substrate influx, thus, producing high range of linear response range (8 \xc3\xacM to 5 mM of glucose). This work provides insights into the spatial location of the enzymes in MOF thin films and the potential of such patterning techniques for MOF-based biosensors using other types of biological elements such as antibodies and aptamers. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Integration of biological macromolecules with inorganic materials via biomineralization has demonstrated great potential for development of nanotheranostic agents. To produce multifunctionality, integration of multiple components in the biomineralized theranostic agents is required; however, how to efficiently and reproducibly implement this is challenging. In this report, a universal biomineralization strategy is developed by incorporation of oxidization polymerization into albumin-templated biomineralization for facile synthesis of nanotheranostic agents. A series of biomineralized polymers and manganese dioxide hybrid nanoparticles (PMHNs) can be synthesized via the polymerization of various monomers, including dopamine (DA), epigallocatechin (EGC), pyrrole (PY), and diaminopyridine (DP), along with the reduction of KMnO4 and formation of manganese dioxide nanoparticles in albumin templates. These biomineralized PMHNs demonstrate ultrahigh MRI (longitudinal relaxivity up to 38 mM-1 s-1) and ultrasonic (US) imaging contrasting capabilities and have excellent photothermal therapy efficacy with complete ablation of orthotopic tumors. Moreover, these biomineralized hybrid nanoparticles can be effectively excreted through the kidneys, avoiding potential systemic toxicity. Thus, integration of polymerization into biomineralization presents a strategy for the fabrication of hybrid nanomaterials, allowing the production of multifunctional and biocompatible nanotheranostic agents via a facile one-pot method. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'In this paper, the influence of humic acid (HA) and fulvic acid (FA) on biomineralization behaviour was evaluated. The results showed HA and FA did not obviously inhabit or promote the precipitation of U-phosphate minerals. The data from molecular dynamic simulation indicated that the free energy for the dissociation of uranyl the PO43- -uranyl was 202.49\xe2\x80\xafkJ/mol, which was much larger than that form HA-uranyl (88.3\xe2\x80\xafkJ/mol). These simulated results revealed the less competitiveness of HA and FA with PO43- for uranyl and explained why HA and FA had less impacted on the formation of U-phosphate minerals. However, the influence of HA/FA on the morphology was obvious, the microstructure of the bio-minerals changed from small particles to lamellar stacking structure with the addition of HA or FA. The findings of this study are helpful for us to gain a better understanding natural U-phosphate biomineralization behaviour. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The marine mollusk Tectus pyramis is a valuable shellfish primarily distributed in the tropical waters of the South China Sea, as well as in the Indo-Pacific Ocean and areas near the southern portion of the Japanese Peninsula. Despite major economic interest in this mollusk, limited genomic resources are available for this species, which has prevented studies of the molecular mechanism, such as biomineralization. Here, we report the first comprehensive transcript dataset of T. pyramis mantle tissue. From a total of 16,801,141 reads, 173,671 unique transcripts were assembled, which provides new genomic resources for the understanding of biomineralization in T. pyramis. The most abundant unique sequences of the top 30 most highly expressed genes were annotated as shematrin, while other highly expressed genes included glycine-rich protein and shematrin-1. Based on transcriptome annotation and Gene Ontology classification, 130 biomineralization-related genes were found including members of the BMP (bone morphogenetic proteins), calmodulin, perlucin, and shematrin families, as well as mantle genes, nacrein, and MSI60. The results of qPCR showed that 14 of 24 examined genes were highly expressed in the mantle. A phylogenetic tree of BMP, perlucin, shematrin proteins revealed conservation of their structure and functions and indicated that some members participated in biomineralization in T. pyramis. Taken together, the results presented herein will be useful in studies of molecular mechanisms and pathways of biomineralization in T. pyramis, as well as provide new insight into the mechanisms of biomineralization in gastropods. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Mineralized collagen provides new solutions in the manufacture of porous scaffolds for tissue engineering. In this research, the use of biomimetic mineralization, the process of mineralization of acid soluble collagen (ASC) type I extracted from white fish (Rutilus frisii kutum) scales, in a body simulated fluid (SBF) in the presence and absence of an anionic surfactant, sodium dodecyl benzene sulphonate (SDBS) was thoroughly investigated. The formation of \xc3\xa2-tricalcium phosphate (\xc3\xa2-TCP) nanocrystals in mineralized nanocomposites was detected by XRD, TGA, and FT-IR techniques. The denaturation temperature (Td) of mineralized ASC was determined at 42.87\xe2\x80\xaf\xc2\xb0C without surfactant, and at 70.2\xe2\x80\xaf\xc2\xb0C with surfactant using DSC technique, which indicated a higher thermal stability of ASC without the SDBS surfactant. TEM images illustrated that the formation of \xc3\xa2-TCP crystals on collagen nano-fibrils was in an irregular form in the absence of surfactant while it was more regular and in the form of rectangular sheets in the presence of surfactant. The results of UV/Vis spectrophotometer for turbidity measurements during the initial step of biomineralization revealed that SDBS while accelerating the self-assembly process of collagen nano-fibrills, delayed the process of nucleation and the growth of calcium phosphate nanocrystals by increasing the kinetic energy barrier. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Eggshell is the outermost calcified covering of an egg that protects it from microbial invasion and physical damage, and is critical for egg quality. However, understanding of the genes/proteins and the biological pathways regulating the eggshell formation is still obscure. We hypothesized that the transcriptomic analysis of the chicken uteri using RNA-sequencing may reveal novel genes and biological pathways involved in the eggshell biomineralization. RNA-sequence analysis using uteri of laying hens at 15-20\xe2\x80\x89h post-ovulation (layers, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893) and non-laying (non-layers, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893) hens was carried out. About 229 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were up-regulated in the layers compared to the non-layers. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) revealed more than ten novel genes and biological pathways related to calcium transport and mineralization in the uterus. Based on the enriched pathways and molecular function analysis, 12 DEGs related to eggshell mineralization were further analyzed in the uteri of layers (3\xe2\x80\x89h and 15-20\xe2\x80\x89h post-ovulation), non-layers and molters using qPCR. Expressions of OC-116 (regulator of mineralization), OTOP2 (modulator of cellular calcium influx), CALCB (intracellular release of Ca-ions), STC2 (increases alkaline phosphatase activity), and ATP2C2 (cellular import of Ca-ions) were significantly higher in the uteri of laying hen at 15-20\xe2\x80\x89h post-ovulation. This study identified the involvement of novel genes and their proposed biological pathways in the regulation of eggshell formation. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The mineralized scale derived from skin plays a protective role for the fish body and also possesses important application values in the biomaterial field. However, little is known about fish scale biomineralization and related molecular regulatory mechanisms. Here, we used a comparative microRNA sequencing approach to identify and characterize differentially expressed microRNAs (DEMs) involved in scale biomineralization in the naked carp Gymnocypris przewalskii. A total of 18, 43, and 66 DEMs were obtained from skin tissues covered with initial, developing, and mature scales (IS, DS, and MS) compared with scale-uncovered skin. The target genes of these DEMs were significantly enriched in a sole biomineralization-related sphingolipid signaling pathway. Seven DEMs (dre-miR-124-3p, dre-miR-133a-2-5p, dre-miR-184, dre-miR-206-3p, novel_33, novel_56 and novel_75) were common in IS, DS, and MS. Dre-miR-124-3p, dre-miR-206-3p, and novel_33 were predicted to be able to target biomineralization-related genes. Stem-loop real-time quantitative PCR further confirmed that the common DEMs had higher expression levels in scale-covered skin tissues than that in the gill, intestine, and brain, except for dre-miR-133a-2-5p. Our results suggest that these identified microRNAs may play a role in scale biomineralization in G. przewalskii, and the obtained microRNAs are expected to be candidates in understanding the molecular mechanism of scale biomineralization in fish species. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Nephrocalcinosis often begins on a calcium phosphate deposit, at the tip of the medullo-papillary complex (MPC) known as Randall\'s plaque (RP). Contextualizing proximally observed biominerals within the MPC has led us to postulate a mechanobiological switch that can trigger interstitial biomineralization at the MPC tip, remote from the intratubular biominerals. Micro X-ray computed tomography scans of human MPCs correlated with transmission and scanning electron micrographs, and X-ray energy dispersive spectrometry demonstrated novel findings about anatomically-specific biominerals. An abundance of proximal intratubular biominerals were associated with emergence of distal interstitial RP. The fundamental architecture of the MPC and mineral densities at the proximal and distal locations of the MPC differed markedly. A predominance of plate-like minerals or radially oriented plate-like crystallites within spheroidal minerals in the proximal intratubular locations, and core-shell type crystallites within spheroidal minerals in distal interstitial locations were observed. Based on the MPC anatomic location of structure-specific biominerals, a biological switch within the mineral-free zone occurring between the proximal and distal locations is postulated. The "on" and "off" switch is dependent on changes in the pressure differential resulting from changes in tubule diameters; the "Venturi effect" changes the "circumferential strain" and culminates in interstitial crystal deposits in the distal tubule wall in response to proximal tubular obstruction. These distal interstitial mineralizations can emerge into the collecting system of the kidney linking nephrocalcinosis with nephrolithiasis. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The unicellular model alga Micrasterias denticulata inhabits acid peat bogs that are highly endangered by pollutants due to their high humidity. As it was known from earlier studies that algae like Micrasterias are capable of storing barium naturally in form of BaSO4 crystals, it was interesting to experimentally investigate distribution and sequestration of barium and the chemically similar alkaline earth metal strontium. Additionally, we intended to analyze whether biomineralization by crystal formation contributes to diminution of the generally toxic effects of these minerals to physiology and structure of this alga which is closely related to higher plants. The results show that depending on the treatment differently shaped crystals are formed in BaCl2 and Cl2Sr exposed Micrasterias cells. Modern microscopic techniques such as analytical TEM by electron energy loss spectroscopy and Raman microscopy provide evidence for the chemical composition of these crystals. It is shown that barium treatment results in the formation of insoluble BaSO4 crystals that develop within distinct compartments. During strontium exposure long rod-like crystals are formed and are surrounded by membranes. Based on the Raman signature of these crystals their composition is attributed to strontium citrate. These crystals are instable and are dissolved during cell death. During strontium as well as barium treatment cell division rates and photosynthetic oxygen production decreased in dependence of the concentration, whereas cell vitality was reduced only slightly. Together with the fact that TEM analyses revealed only minor ultrastructural alterations as consequence of relatively high concentrated BaCl2 and Cl2Sr exposure, this indicates that biomineralization of Sr and Ba protects the cells from severe damage or cell death at least within a particular concentration range and time period. In the case of Sr treatment where ROS levels were found to be elevated, hallmarks for autophagy of single organelles were observed by TEM, indicating beginning degradation processes. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Biominerals serve as critical structures of living systems and play important roles in biochemical processes. Understanding their crystallization mechanisms is therefore central to many areas of biology, biogeoscience, and biochemistry. Some biominerals, such as bone and dentin, are hierarchical nanocomposite structures constructed by sequential addition of individual oriented nanocrystals. The driving forces that enable this oriented assembly are still poorly understood, with advances in understanding limited in part by the availability of techniques that can precisely measure the delicate interactions between nanocrystals as a function of their separation distance and mutual orientation. Here, we provide a comprehensive protocol for (i) fabricating oriented single-nanocrystal atomic force microscopy (AFM) probes using focused ion beam (FIB) milling and (ii) performing oriented nanocrystal interaction force measurements using dynamic force spectroscopy (DFS)-based AFM and environmental transmission electron microscopy (ETEM)-AFM techniques. We illustrate how to fabricate oriented nanocrystal force probes using commercial bulk crystals or nano/microcrystals of calcite, zinc oxide, and rutile. The typical protocol for fabricating one AFM crystal probe takes 2-3 h. In addition, we illustrate how to quantify the direction-specific interaction forces for a given pair of interacting oriented nanocrystal faces. The methods are fully transferrable to other minerals of interest, such as the apatites constituting bone minerals. This allows researchers across many fields to measure and understand particle-based crystallization processes. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'We report an investigation of microbially induced carbonate precipitation by seven indigenous bacteria isolated from a landfill in China. Bacterial strains were cultured in a medium supplemented with 25 mmol/L calcium chloride and 333 mmol/L urea. The experiments were carried out at 30 \xc2\xb0C for 7 days with agitation by a shaking table at 130 r/min. Scanning electron microscopic and X-ray diffraction analyses showed variations in calcium carbonate polymorphs and mineral composition induced by all bacterial strains. The amount of carbonate precipitation was quantified by titration. The amount of carbonate precipitated in the medium varied among isolates, with the lowest being Bacillus aerius rawirorabr15 (LC092833) precipitating around 1.5 times more carbonate per unit volume than the abiotic (blank) solution. Pseudomonas nitroreducens szh_asesj15 (LC090854) was found to be the most efficient, precipitating 3.2 times more carbonate than the abiotic solution. Our results indicate that bacterial carbonate precipitation occurred through ureolysis and suggest that variations in carbonate crystal polymorphs and rates of precipitation were driven by strain-specific differences in urease expression and response to the alkaline environment. These results and the method applied provide benchmarking and screening data for assessing the bioremediation potential of indigenous bacteria for containment of contaminants in landfills. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Poly-(lactide-co-glycolide acid) (PLGA) has been widely investigated as scaffold material for bone tissue engineering owing to its biosafety, biodegradability, and biocompatibility. However, the bioinert surface of PLGA may fail in regulating cellular behavior and directing osteointegration between the scaffold and the host tissue. In this article, oxidized chondroitin sulfate (oCS) and type I collagen (Col I) were assembled onto PLGA surface via layer by layer technique (LbL) as an adhesive coating for the attachment of inorganic minerals. The multilayer-modified PLGA scaffold was mineralized in vitro to ensure the deposition of nanohydroxyapatite (nHAP). It was found that nHAP crystals were more uniformly and firmly attached on the multilayer-modified PLGA as compared with the pure PLGA scaffold, which remarkably improved PLGA surface and mechanical properties. Additionally, in vitro biocompatibility of PLGA scaffold, in terms of bone mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) attachment, spreading and proliferation was greatly enhanced by nHAP coating and multilayer deposition. Furthermore, the fabricated composite scaffold also shows the ability to promote the osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs through the up-regulation of osteogenic marker genes. Thus, this novel biomimetic composite scaffold might achieve a desirable therapeutic result for bone tissue regeneration. \xc2\xa9 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A: 106A: 2714-2725, 2018. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The glycosaminoglycan (GAG) chains attached to the core proteins of proteoglycans exert multiple roles, such as enriching signal molecules and regulating the binding of ligands to the corresponding receptors. A newly identified kinase - family with sequence similarity 20 member B (FAM20B) - is essential for the formation of GAG chains. The FAM20B protein phosphorylates the initial xylose on the side chain of a serine residue in the protein. Although the GAG chains of proteoglycans are believed to be indispensable during craniofacial development, there are few reports on their exact functions in craniofacial organogenesis. In this study, by mating Wnt1-cre mice with Fam20b-floxed mice (Fam20bflox/flox), we created Wnt1-Cre;Fam20bflox/flox mice in which Fam20b is ablated in the neural crest-derived mesenchyme. The Wnt1-Cre;Fam20bflox/flox mice died immediately after birth because of complete cleft palates. In addition to cleft palate, Wnt1-Cre;Fam20bflox/flox mice also manifested tongue elevation, micrognathia, microcephaly, suture widening, and reduced mineralization in the calvaria, facial bones, and temporomandibular joint. These findings indicate that the proteoglycans formed through the catalysis of FAM20B are essential for the morphogenesis and mineralization of the craniofacial complex. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Stinging hairs are striking examples of plant microengineering-the plant equivalent of the hypodermic syringe. The requisite mechanical properties are mostly achieved by cell wall mineralization. Stinging hairs of Urtica dioica (Urticaceae) are known to be mineralized with silica and calcium carbonate and those of Loasaceae also with calcium phosphate, but no comparative study has been provided across different taxa with stinging hairs.METHODS: Light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) with cryo-SEM and energy-dispersive x-ray spectroscopy were used to analyze morphology and biomineralization of stinging hairs of 43 species from the families Caricaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Loasaceae, Namaceae, and Urticaceae.KEY RESULTS: Stinging hair morphology is similar across the taxa studied, in striking contrast to the divergent patterns of biomineralization. Trichome bases are mostly calcified, sometimes silicified, the shafts are mostly calcified, and the apices silicified (Urticaceae), and contain calcium phosphate (Caricaceae, Namaceae), both silica and calcium phosphate (some Loasaceae), or no minerals (Cnidoscolus, Euphorbiaceae). Some stinging hairs are superficially thinly coated with silica over a cell wall otherwise mineralized with calcium carbonate or calcium phosphate.CONCLUSIONS: Mineralization patterns are surprisingly diverse and involve three different biominerals deposited in different parts of individual trichomes with calcium phosphate a common component. The physical properties of different wall regions of the stinging trichomes are thus fine-tuned to optimize their function via modulation of wall thickness and differential element deposition. Similar function is apparently achieved through divergent wall compositions. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The objective of this study was to observe the impact of temperature on pearl formation using an integrative approach describing the rotation of the pearls, the rate of nacre deposition, the thickness of the aragonite tablets and the biomineralizing potential of the pearl sac tissue though the expression level of some key genes. Fifty pearl oysters were grafted with magnetized nuclei to allow the rotation of the pearls to be described. Four months later, 32 of these pearl oysters were exposed to four temperatures (22, 26, 30 and 34\xc2\xb0C) for 2\xe2\x80\x85weeks. Results showed that the rotation speed differed according to the movement direction: pearls with axial movement had a significantly higher rotation speed than those with random movement. Pearl growth rate was influenced by temperature, with a maximum between 26 and 30\xc2\xb0C but almost no growth at 34\xc2\xb0C. Lastly, among the nine genes implicated in the biomineralization process, only Pmarg-Pif177 expression was significantly modified by temperature. These results showed that the rotation speed of the pearls was not linked to pearl growth or to the expression profiles of biomineralizing genes targeted in this study. On the basis of our results, we consider that pearl rotation is a more complex process than formerly thought. Mechanisms involved could include a strong environmental forcing in immediate proximity to the pearl. Another implication of our findings is that, in the context of ocean warming, pearl growth and quality can be expected to decrease in pearl oysters exposed to temperatures above 30\xc2\xb0C. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Spinner flask bioreactors have often been employed for bone tissue engineering. However, the reasons for their success in facilitating bone growth remain inconclusive. It was hypothesised that engineered bone tissue formation can be attributed to mechanical stimuli, which can be predicted in the tissue engineered construct. To test the hypothesis and draw conclusions as to how mechanical stimulation affects cell behaviour, a multi- disciplinary approach using cell culture experiments and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to simulate the complex flow within the spinner flask and scaffold was employed. Micro-computed tomography and histology showed that statically cultured human bone marrow derived stromal cells on silk fibroin scaffolds did not form extracellular matrix (ECM) or deposit minerals. However, constructs cultured at 60 rpm resulted in ECM formation and mineralisation, mainly at the bottom of the scaffold (bottom: 78 \xc2\xb1 7 %, middle: 17 \xc2\xb1 5 %, top: 5 \xc2\xb1 2 % of total mineralised volume). Culturing at 300 rpm led to a more homogeneously distributed ECM (bottom: 40 \xc2\xb1 14 %, middle: 33 \xc2\xb1 1 %, top: 27 \xc2\xb1 14 % of total mineralised volume). These observations were in agreement (Pearson correlation coefficient: 97 %) with the computational simulations that predicted maximal scaffold mineralisation, based on wall shear stress stimulation, in the bottom at 60 rpm and in the main body at 300 rpm. Such combinations of CFD modelling and experimentation could advance our knowledge of the mechanical stimuli that cells experience in vitro and link them to biological responses. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'In this work, we have explored the polysaccharide nature of bael fruit gum (BFG) motivated from the current findings about the substantial role of the polysaccharides in bone tissue engineering. The nanocomposite scaffold (CSH-BFG) was prepared by blending BFG, nano-hydroxyapatite (n-HA) and chitosan (CS) by co-precipitation approach and compared with n-HA and CS binary system (CSH). The analysis of different properties was carried out by SEM, TEM, FTIR, XRD and mechanical testing. The CSH-BFG scaffolds revealed a rough morphology and uniform distribution of particles along with strong chemical interactions among different components compared to the CSH scaffold. The incorporation of BFG in the scaffold resulted in significant increase of the compressive strength, compressive modulus, protein adsorption, biodegradation and swelling behaviour. The ternary system exhibited superior antibacterial activity against different bacterial pathogens compared to the binary system. The in vitro biomineralization ability was elucidated from the formation of thick apatite layer complementing the result of ARS study in the CSH-BFG nanocomposite. Our findings also revealed that BFG reinforced CSH nanocomposite exhibited enhanced cell adhesion and proliferation, osteogenic differentiation along with phenomenal cytocompatibility. Overall, our results signified that the fabricated CSH-BFG nanocomposite carries enormous potential to be applied in the bone remodelling procedures. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of a biologically active dental implant surface (treated with sandblasting and acid etching [SLA] followed by immersion in simulated body fluid [SBF]) on osseointegration.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We randomly divided 9 healthy adult male beagles (aged 8\xc2\xa0months; body weight, 12\xc2\xa0kg) into 3 groups: machined, SLA, and SLA-biomineralization (SLA-Bio). Six pure titanium implants (diameter of 3.5\xc2\xa0mm and length of 8\xc2\xa0mm) were used in the mandible of each dog after observation of the surface morphology, as well as analysis of the composition of the surface elements by scanning electron microscopy-energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy. At 4, 8, and 12\xc2\xa0weeks after implantation, animals were euthanized to collect the mandibles so that we could perform the removal torque test to evaluate the implant stability in bone and histomorphometry to analyze the implant-bone osseointegration.RESULTS: Scanning electron microscopy results showed that uniformly distributed sponge-like structures were found on the SLA-treated surface and an apatite layer was observed on the SLA-SBF-treated surface (SLA-Bio group). In the energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy analysis, the elements titanium, oxygen, carbon, calcium, and phosphorus were found on the surfaces of the SLA-Bio group, whereas titanium was the only element found in the other groups.\xc2\xa0The removal torque test showed that the peak removal torque values of the 3 groups increased gradually with the passage of time, and the peak removal torque values of the SLA-Bio group were significantly higher than those of the other groups (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa0.01) at 4, 8, and 12\xc2\xa0weeks after implantation. Histomorphometric analysis showed that osseointegration was being enabled more rapidly in the SLA-Bio group, as well as that the mineral apposition rate and percentage of bone-to-implant contact of the SLA-Bio group were higher than those of the remaining groups at 4, 8, and 12\xc2\xa0weeks after implantation (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa0.01).CONCLUSIONS: Treating titanium implants with SLA-SBF can improve osseointegration as well as increase the interfacial shear strength. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'It has become increasingly apparent that the environmental microorganisms residing in uranium (U) enriched sites offer the possibility of understanding the biological mechanisms catalyzing the processes important for uranium bioremediation. Here, we present the results of uranium biomineralization over a wide pH range by a metal tolerant Serratia sp. strain OT II 7 isolated from the subsurface soil of a U ore deposit at Domiasiat in India. The Serratia cells actively expressed acid and alkaline phosphatase enzymes which hydrolyzed differential amounts of phosphate from an organophosphate substrate in the presence of uranium between pH 5 to 9. These cells precipitated ?91% uranium from aqueous solutions supplemented with 1 mM uranyl nitrate at pH 5 within 120 h. More rapid precipitation was observed at pH 7 and 9 wherein the cells removed ?93-94% of uranium from solutions containing 1 mM uranyl carbonate within 24 h. The aqueous uranyl speciation prevalent under the studied pH conditions influenced the localization of crystalline uranyl phosphate precipitates, which in turn, impacted the cell viability to a great extent. Furthermore, the cells tolerated up to ?1.6 kGy 60Co gamma radiation and their uranium precipitation abilities at pH 5, 7 and 9 were uncompromised even after exposure to a high dose of ionizing radiation. Overall, this study establishes the ecological adaptation of a natural strain like Serratia in a uranium enriched environment and corroborates its contribution towards uranium immobilization in contaminated subsurfaces through the formation of stable uranyl phosphate minerals over a wide pH range. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Species of the Ostreidae family are key ecosystem engineers and many of them - including Crassostrea gigas and Crassostreavirginica - are commercially important aquaculture species. Despite similarities in their morphology and ecology, these two species differ in their ability to defend against pathogens, potentially reflecting species-specific differential specialization of hemocytes on immune defense versus biomineralization. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the expression levels of immune- and biomineralization-related genes as well as mineralogical and mechanical properties of the shells and the calcium sequestration ability of the hemocytes of C. gigas and C. virginica The expression of biomineralization-related genes was higher in C. virginica than in C. gigas in multiple tissues including the mantle edge and hemocytes, while the expression of immune genes was higher in the hemocytes of C. gigas Hemocytes of C. virginica contained more calcium (stored intracellularly as calcium carbonate mineral) compared with those of C. gigas Analysis of the adult shells showed that the crystallinity of calcite was higher and the laths of the foliated layer of the shell were thicker in C. virginica than in C. gigas Mechanically, the shells of C. virginica were stiffer, harder and stronger than those of C. gigas Taken together, our results show that the species-specific differences in physiology (such as disease resistance and exoskeleton properties) are reflected at the cellular and molecular levels in the differential specialization of hemocytes on potentially competing functions (immunity and biomineralization) as well as different expression profiles of other tissues involved in biomineralization (such as the mantle edge). labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Biomineralization is an interesting naturally occurring process of forming minerals by microorganisms, which offers an efficient way to sequester heavy metal ions within relatively stable solid phases. In this study, Bacillus cereus Cd01 was selected to investigate effects of self-mediated pH on biosorption and biomineralization of Cd2+ in whole 72h cultivation period. Results revealed that strain Cd01-mediated pH decrease of the cultivation medium from 7.0 to 6.1 inhibited biosorption of Cd2+ on Cd01 cells at the initial cultivation period, while an increased pH from 6.1 to 7.4 facilitated biosorption of Cd2+ on Cd01 cells at the middle and late cultivation period. The reasons were mainly that self-mediated pH altered cell surface hydrophobicity and cell membrane fluidity of strain Cd01. Moreover, biosorption and bioaccumulation of Cd2+ on Cd01 cells in the period of increased pH promoted biomineralization of Cd2+ observed by the transmission and scanning electron microscopes. The analyses of energy dispersive spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy and select area electron diffraction demonstrated that Cd2+ loaded on Cd01 cells was biomineralized into polycrystalline and/ or amorphous cadmium sulfide and cadmium phosphate. These results suggest that strain Cd01 may play a potential role in biomineralization remediation of heavy metal contaminated soils. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'This work shows that calcareous benthic foraminifera are capable of agglutinating sedimentary particles also. In particular, we focus on Melonis barleeanus. Traditionally considered a calcareous species, our data revealed the presence of minute (~3\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\xacm) sedimentary particles (silicate grains) inside the chamber walls of the examined shells. These particles were arranged in a definitive and systematic pattern, and the similar grain chemical characterization and size suggested a relatively high degree of selectivity in both modern and fossil specimens. Based on these results, we propose that M. barleeanus is capable of agglutinating sedimentary particles during the formation of a new chamber. The analysis of other calcareous foraminiferal species (e.g., Cassidulina neoteretis, Lobatula lobatula, Nonionella stella) did not reveal the presence of silicate grains in the shell of the specimens analyzed confirming this to be a characteristic of M. barleeanus. Considering that the isotopic and chemical composition of this species is widely used in paleoclimatic and paleoceanographic reconstructions, we used a mixing model to better constrain the influence of sedimentary particles on M. barleeanus \xc3\xa418O data. Our model showed that the calcite \xc3\xa418O would increase by ~0.9-2\xe2\x80\xb0 if 10\xe2\x80\x89wt% of feldspars (i.e., anorthite, albite, orthoclase) and quartz, respectively, were included in the analyzed shell. Based on these results, we emphasize that it is of paramount importance to consider M. barleeanus unusual biomineralization strategy during the interpretation of geological records and to investigate the presence of similar processes in other calcareous foraminiferal species. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'A new mineral trioxide aggregate (MTA) material has been developed with a modified composition that requires investigations to support its clinical use. This study evaluated the biocompatibility and biomineralization of this new MTA material and compared it with that of two other MTA cements over time. Tubes containing materials (or empty tubes as controls) were inserted into the subcutaneous tissues of 40 rats. On days 7, 15, 30, 60, and 90, the tubes were removed with the surrounding tissues, which were either stained with haematoxylin and eosin or von Kossa for further analyses or unstained for observation under polarized light. On days 7 and 15, moderate inflammation was observed in most specimens, and the fibrous capsule was thick. On day 30, there was mild inflammation in all groups, and the fibrous capsule was thin. On days 60 and 90, there was mild inflammation in the material groups, while the control group showed no inflammation, although no statistically significant difference between the groups was observed and the fibrous capsule was thin. All material groups showed structures that stained with von Kossa and could be observed under polarized light; this was not found for the control. In conclusion, the new MTA material had biocompatibility and biomineralization properties similar to those of the two existing MTA materials. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'We report methods to generate three-dimensional maps of birefringence, its position and orientation in juvenile shells of the Atlantic hard clamshell (Mercenaria mercenaria). For measuring the retardance and optic axis orientation of curved shell surfaces in three dimensions, we developed enhanced acquisition and processing algorithms and combined results from conventional and light field imaging approaches to reconstruct the three-dimensional shell shape and its anisotropic optical properties. Our\xc2\xa0work represents the first successful attempt to generate such maps at a spatial resolution of about 2 \xc3\xacm and angular steps of\xc2\xa0about 9\xc2\xb0 in terms of the inclination angles of the optic axis. The maps of clamshell birefringence provide structural insights into the early mineralization during juvenile clamshell development. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Decomposing fungi translocate manganese (Mn) as demonstrated by the fact that Mn has been found to accumulate on decomposing leaves associated with individual fungal hyphae forming insoluble Mn(III,IV) oxides that remain concentrated in diffuse patches. Here, we studied Mn translocation and precipitation by the saprophytic fungus Alternaria sp. strain FBL507 both on naturally decomposing oak leaves and in vitro experiments. Manganese was translocated and precipitated in beads and encrustations along the fungal hyphae. The combination of X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy-energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy chemical data showed that the precipitates found on leaves were rhodochrosite (MnCO3), birnessite ([Na, Ca, K]Mn2O4? 1.5H2O) and possibly Mn oxalate. The precipitates on wood were an amorphous Mn-O compound, probably MnO. Thus, Mn oxidation state in the precipitates spanned from +2 to +4, with +3 and +4 only in the birnessite on the leaves. In vitro experiments showed that Mn precipitates formed in living hyphae, suggesting the possibility that Mn precipitation is actively produced by the fungus. Such a possibility raises interesting questions regarding the role of readily available Mn in the activity of saprophytic fungi and other soil microorganisms, such as would result in a large involvement of Mn in the cycles of the major nutrient elements. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Diamond like carbon (DLC) films were deposited onto Ti6Al4V and Si wafer substrates by RF plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition. The influence of dopants such as fluorine (F), silicon (Si), and nitrogen (N) on composition, structure, and biocompatibility was investigated. Ion scattering spectroscopy analysis revealed the presence of dopant atoms in the outer-most layers of the films. Raman studies showed that the position of the G-band shifts to higher frequencies with the fluorine and nitrogen content in the DLC film, whereas the incorporation of Si into DLC induces a decrease of the position of the G peak. The corrosion behavior was studied in simulated body fluid. A higher charge transfer resistance (Rct) was observed for the doped DLC films. The indirect cytotoxicity was performed using L929 fibroblast cells. The coated surfaces were hemocompatible when tested with red blood cells. DLC films were noncytotoxic to L929 cells over a 24\xe2\x80\x89h exposure. Saos-2 osteoblast cell response to the doped and undoped DLC coated surfaces was studied in adhesion, proliferation, differentiation, and mineralization assays. The production of calcium and phosphate by cells on doped DLC, particularly, nitrogen doped DLC, was higher than that on undoped DLC. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Context: Five different activating PTH/PTH-related peptide (PTHrP) receptor (PTHR1) mutations have been reported as causes of Jansen metaphyseal chondrodysplasia (JMC), a rare disorder characterized by severe growth plate abnormalities and PTH-independent hypercalcemia.Objectives: Assess the natural history of clinical and laboratory findings in 24 patients with JMC and characterize the disease-causing mutant receptors in vitro.Patients and Methods: The H223R mutation occurred in 18 patients. T410P, I458R and I458K each occurred in single cases; T410R was present in a father and his two sons. Laboratory records were analyzed individually and in aggregate.Results: Postnatal calcium levels were normal in most patients, but elevated between 0.15 and 10 years (11.8 \xc2\xb1 1.37 mg/dL) and tended to normalize in adults (10.0 \xc2\xb1 1.03 mg/dL). Mean phosphate levels were at the lower end of the age-specific normal ranges. Urinary calcium/creatinine (mg/mg) were consistently elevated (children, 0.80 \xc2\xb1 0.40; adults, 0.28 \xc2\xb1 0.19). Adult heights were well below the 3rd percentile for all patients, except for those with the T410R mutation. Most patients with JMC had undergone orthopedic surgical procedures, most had nephrocalcinosis, and two had advanced chronic kidney disease. The five PTHR1 mutants showed varying degrees of constitutive and PTH-stimulated cAMP signaling activity when expressed in HEK293 reporter cells. The inverse agonist [L11,dW12,W23,Y36]PTHrP(7-36) reduced basal cAMP signaling for each PTHR1 mutant.Conclusions: Except for T410R, the other PTHR1 mutations were associated with indistinguishable mineral ion abnormalities and cause similarly severe growth impairment. Hypercalciuria persisted into adulthood. An inverse agonist ligand effectively reduced in vitro PTH-independent cAMP formation at all five PTHR1 mutants, suggesting a potential path toward therapy. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Although controlled local inflammation is essential for adequate bone regeneration, several studies have shown that hyper-inflammatory conditions after major trauma are associated with impaired fracture healing. These hyper-inflammatory conditions include the trauma-induced systemic inflammatory response to major injury, open fractures, and significant injury to the surrounding soft tissues. The current literature suggests that increased or prolonged influx of neutrophils into the fracture hematoma may mediate impairment of bone regeneration after hyper-inflammatory conditions. The underlying mechanism remains unclear. We hypothesize that high neutrophil numbers inhibit synthesis of mineralized extracellular matrix (ECM) by bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs). We therefore studied the effect of increasing concentrations of neutrophils on ECM synthesis by human BMSCs in vitro. Moreover, we determined how high neutrophil concentrations affect BMSC cell counts, as well as BMSC osteogenic activity determined by alkaline phosphatase (ALP) expression and ALP activity. Co-culture of BMSCs with neutrophils induced a 52% decrease in BMSC cell count (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01), a 64% decrease in the percentage of ALP+ cells (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001), a 28% decrease in total ALP activity (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01), and a significant decrease in the amount of mineralized ECM [38% decrease after 4\xe2\x80\x89weeks (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05)]. Co-cultures with peripheral blood mononuclear cells and neutrophils within transwells did not induce a significant decrease in ALP activity. In conclusion, our data shows that a decreased amount of mineralized ECM became synthesized by BMSCs, when they were co-cultured with high neutrophil concentrations. Moreover, high neutrophil concentrations induced a decrease in BMSC cell counts and decreased ALP activity. Clarifying the underlying mechanism may contribute to development of therapies that augment bone regeneration or prevent impaired fracture healing after hyper-inflammatory conditions. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Microbial mineralization (corrosion, decomposition, and weathering) has been investigated for its role in the extraction and recovery of metals from ores. Here we report our application of biomineralization for the microbial enhanced oil recovery in low-permeability oil reservoirs. It aimed to reveal the etching mechanism of the four Fe(III)-reducing microbial strains under anaerobic growth conditions on Ca-montmorillonite. The mineralogical characterization of Ca-montmorillonite was performed by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray powder diffraction, scanning electron microscopy, and energy-dispersive spectrometry. Results showed that the microbial strains could efficiently reduce Fe(III) at an optimal rate of 71%, alter the crystal lattice structure of the lamella to promote interlayer cation exchange, and efficiently inhibit Ca-montmorillonite swelling at a rate of 48.9%.IMPORTANCE Microbial mineralization is ubiquitous in the natural environment. Microbes in low-permeability reservoirs are able to facilitate alteration of the structure and phase of the Fe-poor minerals by reducing Fe(III) and inhibiting clay swelling, which is still poorly studied. This study aimed to reveal the interaction mechanism between Fe(III)-reducing bacterial strains and Ca-montmorillonite under anaerobic conditions and to investigate the extent and rates of Fe(III) reduction and phase changes with their activities. Application of Fe(III)-reducing bacteria will provide a new way to inhibit clay swelling, to elevate reservoir permeability, and to reduce pore throat resistance after water flooding for enhanced oil recovery in low-permeability reservoirs. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Avian eggshells are composed of several layers made of organic compounds and a mineral phase (calcite), and the general structure is basically the same in all species. A comparison of the structure, crystallography, and chemical composition shows that despite an overall similarity, each species has its own structure, crystallinity, and composition. Eggshells are a perfect example of the crystallographic versus biological concept of the formation and growth mechanisms of calcareous biominerals: the spherulitic-columnar structure is described as "a typical case of competitive crystal growth", but it is also said that the eggshell matrix components regulate eggshell mineralization. Electron back scattered diffraction (EBSD) analyses show that the crystallinity differs between different species. Nevertheless, the three layers are composed of rounded granules, and neither facets nor angles are visible. In-situ analyses show the heterogeneous distribution of chemical elements throughout the thickness of single eggshell. The presence of organic matrices other than the outer and inner membranes in eggshells is confirmed by thermograms and infrared spectrometry, and the differences in quality and quantity depend on the species. Thus, as in other biocrystals, crystal growth competition is not enough to explain these differences, and there is a strong biological control of the eggshell secretion. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'BACKGROUND: Matrix-regulated biomineralization involves the specific nucleation and growth of mineral phases within or upon preformed structured organic matrices. We hypothesized that there might be a general mechanism whereby anionic, phosphorylated mineral ion-binding proteins assist in specifically locating the mineral ions with respect to the mineralizing structural organic matrix. Here we extended these studies to invertebrate mineralization in Lytechinus variegatus (Lv) teeth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The tooth proteins were extracted and the phosphoproteins occluded in the mineral were enriched by passage through a ProQ Diamond phosphoprotein enrichment column, and subjected to MS/MS analysis. A Lv RNA-seq derived transcriptome database was generated. The MS/MS data found 25 proteins previously classified as "Predicted uncharacterized proteins" and many of the spicule matrix proteins. As these 25 proteins were also identified with the transcriptome analysis, and were thus no longer "hypothetical" but real proteins in the Lv tooth. Each protein was analyzed for the presence of a signal peptide, an acidic pI?4, and the ability to be phosphorylated.RESULTS: Four new Lv tooth specific Pro-Ala-rich proteins were found, representing a new class of proteins.CONCLUSION: The tooth is different from the spicules and other urchin skeletal elements in that only the tooth contains both "high" and "very high" magnesium calcite, [Ca(1-X) Mg(X) CO3], where X is the mole fraction of Mg. We speculate that our newly discovered proline-alanine rich proteins, also containing sequences of acidic amino acids, may be involved in the formation of high magnesium and very high magnesium calcite. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'This work reports the modification of freeze/thaw poly(vinyl alcohol) hydrogel using citric acid as the bioactive molecule for hydroxyapatite formation in simulated body fluid. Inclusion of 1.3 mM citric acid into the poly(vinyl alcohol) hydrogel showed that the mechanical strength, crystalline phase, functional groups and swelling ability were still intact. Adding citric acid at higher concentrations (1.8 and 2.3 mM), however, resulted in physically poor hydrogels. Presence of 1.3 mM of citric acid showed the growth of porous hydroxyapatite crystals on the poly(vinyl alcohol) surface just after one day of immersion in simulated body fluid. Meanwhile, a fully covered apatite layer on the poly(vinyl alcohol) surface plus the evidence of apatite forming within the hydrogel were observed after soaking for seven days. Gel strength of the soaked poly(vinyl alcohol)/citric acid-1.3 mM hydrogel revealed that the load resistance was enhanced compared to that of the neat poly(vinyl alcohol) hydrogel. This facile method of inducing rapid growth of hydroxyapatite on the hydrogel surface as well as within the hydrogel network can be useful for guided bone regenerative materials. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Efficient pH regulation is a fundamental requisite of all calcifying systems in animals and plants but with the underlying pH regulatory mechanisms remaining largely unknown. Using the sea urchin larva, this work identified the SLC4 HCO3- transporter family member SpSlc4a10 to be critically involved in the formation of an elaborate calcitic endoskeleton. SpSlc4a10 is specifically expressed by calcifying primary mesenchyme cells with peak expression during de novo formation of the skeleton. Knock-down of SpSlc4a10 led to pH regulatory defects accompanied by decreased calcification rates and skeleton deformations. Reductions in seawater pH, resembling ocean acidification scenarios, led to an increase in SpSlc4a10 expression suggesting a compensatory mechanism in place to maintain calcification rates. We propose a first pH regulatory and HCO3- concentrating mechanism that is fundamentally linked to the biological precipitation of CaCO3. This knowledge will help understanding biomineralization strategies in animals and their interaction with a changing environment. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Three-dimensional structural scaffolds have played an important role in tissue engineering, especially broad applications in areas such as regenerative medicine. We have developed novel biodegradable porous poly(propylene fumarate)-co-poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PPF-co-PLGA) scaffolds using thermally induced phase separation, and determined the effects of critical parameters such as copolymer concentration (6, 8, and 10 wt %) and the binary solvent ratio of dioxane:water (78/22, 80/20, 82/18 wt/wt %) on the fabrication process. The cloud-point temperatures of PPF-co-PLGA changed in parallel with increasing copolymer concentration, but inversely with increasing dioxane content. The compressive moduli of the scaffolds increased with greater weight composition and dioxane:water ratio. Scaffolds formed using high copolymer concentrations and solvent ratios exhibited preferable biomineralization. All samples showed biodegradation capability in both accelerated solution and phosphate-buffered saline (PBS). Cell toxicity testing indicated that the scaffolds had good biocompatibility with bone and nerve cells, which adhered well to the scaffolds. Variations in the copolymer concentration and solvent ratio exercised a remarkable influence on morphology, mechanical properties, biomineralization, and biodegradation, but not on the cell viability and adhesion of the cross-linked scaffolds. An 8 to 10 wt % solute concentration and 80/20 to 82/18 wt/wt dioxane:water ratio were the optimum parameters for scaffold fabrication. PPF-co-PLGA scaffolds thus possess several promising prospects for tissue engineering applications. \xc2\xa9 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A: 106A:2507-2517, 2018. labels: #Biomineralization'
b"OBJECTIVE: Evaluate, in vivo, the biocompatibility via subcutaneous inflammatory tissue response and mineralization ability of the new MTA Flow compared to MTA Angelus and ProRoot MTA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty male Wistar rats were assigned and received subcutaneous polyethylene tube implants containing the test materials and a control group with empty tube (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910 animals/group). After days 7, 15, 30, and 60, the animals were euthanized and the polyethylene tubes were removed with the surrounding tissues. Inflammatory infiltrate and thickness of the fibrous capsule were histologically evaluated. Mineralization was analyzed by Von Kossa staining and under polarized light. Data were analyzed via Kruskal-Wallis and Dunn's test with a significance level of 5%.RESULTS: MTA Angelus induced the mildest reaction after 7 (P\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89.05) and 15\xc2\xa0days (P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.05) followed by MTA Flow, both cements achieving mild inflammatory reaction after 15\xc2\xa0days. ProRoot MTA induced a severe inflammation on day 7 and was reducing after day 15 (P\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89.05). No difference was observed after days 30 or 60 (P\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89.05). Von Kossa staining and birefringent structures were positive to all materials.CONCLUSIONS: At the end of the experiment, the novel MTA Flow showed biocompatibility and induced biomineralization in all time periods.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The final consistence obtained in MTA Flow may facilitate several procedures, indicating that the MTA Flow has a promising application in endodontics. labels: #Biomineralization"
b'There has been significant progress in the self-assembly of biological materials, but the one-step covalent peptide self-assembly for well-defined nanostructures is still in its infancy. Inspired by the biological functions of tyrosine, a covalently assembled fluorescent peptide nanogel is developed by a ruthenium-mediated, one-step photo-crosslinking of tyrosine-rich short peptides under the visible light within 6 minutes. The covalently assembled peptide nanogel is stable in various organic solvents and different pH levels, unlike those made from vulnerable non-covalent assemblies. The semipermeable peptide nanogel with a high density of redox-active tyrosine acts as a novel nano-bioreactor, allowing the formation of uniform metal-peptide hybrids by selective biomineralization under UV irradiation. As such, this peptide nanogel could be useful in the design of novel nanohybrids and peptidosomes possessing functional nanomaterials. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Acid proteins capable of nucleating Ca2+ and displaying aggregation capacity play key roles in the formation of calcium carbonate biominerals. The helix-loop helix EF-hands are the most common Ca2+-binding motifs in proteins. Calcium is bound by the loop region. These motifs are found in many proteins that are regulated by calcium. Gad m 1, an Atlantic cod \xc3\xa2-parvalbumin isoform, is a monomeric EF-hand protein that acts as a Ca2+ buffer in fish muscle; the neutral and acid apo-forms of this protein can form amyloids. Since Ca2+-nucleating proteins have a propensity to form extended \xc3\xa2-strand structures, we wondered whether amyloid assemblies of an EF-hand protein were able to influence calcium carbonate crystallization in vitro. Here, we used the Gad m 1 chain as a model to generate monomeric and amyloid assemblies and to analyze their effect on calcite formation in vitro. We found that only amyloid assemblies alter calcite morphology. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'In bivalves, the mantle tissue secretes organic matrix and inorganic ions into the extrapallial space (EPS) to form the shells. In addition, more and more evidences indicate the participation of hemocytes in shell mineralization, but no direct evidence has been reported that verifies the presence of hemocytes in the EPS, and their exact roles in biomineralization remain uncertain. Here, we identified hemocytes from the EPS of Pinctada fucata. Numerous components involved in cellular and humoral immunity were identified by proteome analysis, together with several proteins involved in calcium metabolism. The hemocytes exerted active phagocytosis and significantly upregulated the expression of immune genes after immune stimulation. A group of granulocytes were found to contain numerous calcium-rich vesicles and crystals, which serve as a calcium pool. During shell regeneration, some genes involved in calcium metabolism are upregulated. Strikingly, most of the shell matrix proteins were absent in the hemocytes, suggesting that they might not be solely responsible for directing the growth of the shell. Taken together, our results provided comprehensive information about the function of hemocytes in immunity and shell formation. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The nacreous layer of pearl oysters is one of the major biominerals of commercial and industrial interest. Jacalin-related lectins, including PPL3 isoforms, are known to regulate biomineralization of the Pteria penguin pearl shell, although the molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. The PPL3 crystal structures were determined partly by utilizing microgravity environments for 3 isoforms, namely, PPL3A, PPL3B, and PPL3C. The structures revealed a tail-to-tail dimer structure established by forming a unique inter-subunit disulfide bond at C-termini. The N-terminal residues were found in pyroglutamate form, and this was partly explained by the post-translational modification of PPL3 isoforms implied from the discrepancy between amino acid and gene sequences. The complex structures with trehalose and isomaltose indicated that the novel specificity originated from the unique \xc3\xa1-helix of PPL3 isoforms. Docking simulations of PPL3B to various calcite crystal faces suggested the edge of a \xc3\xa2-sheet and the carbohydrate-binding site rich in charged residues were the interface to the biomineral, and implied that the isoforms differed in calcite interactions. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The accurate imaging of the lymph nodes represents a critical indicator for tumor staging and surgical planning (e.g., osteosarcoma). Clinically, nodal tracing using a radio-nanocolloid is often limited by the inaccessibility of real-time images and inadequate anatomical information. Herein, we present a 99mTc-labeled biomineralization nanoprobe for the advanced detection of osteosarcoma and lymph nodes with multimodal imaging. Through the exploitation of the complementary strengths of MRI/SPECT/NIR fluorescence, the fabricated nanoprobe exhibited suitable stability and biocompatibility characteristics and was shown to be able to be located in osteosarcoma. The lymphatic drainage and network in healthy mice were imaged in real-time using NIR fluorescence and SPECT/CT. Furthermore, we demonstrated that our 99mTc-biomineralization nanoprobe could be used for the high-resolution and high-sensitivity imaging analysis of lymphatic drainage in an orthotopic osteosarcoma model. Overall, the 99mTc-labeled biomineralization nanoprobe features promising characteristics to be used as an intraoperative visualization tool to aid in precise tumor imaging and nodal resection. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Kinase-family with sequence similarity 20, member C (Fam20C) is a protein kinase, which can phosphorylate biomineralization related proteins in vertebrate animals. However, the function of Fam20C in invertebrate animals especially the role in biomineralization is still unknown. Herein, we cloned the cDNA of fam20C from the pearl oyster, Pinctada fucata. It is showed that the expression of fam20C in the mantle edge was much higher than other tissues. In situ hybridization showed that fam20C was expressed mostly in the outer epithelial cells of the middle fold, indicating it may play important roles in the shell formation. Besides, fam20C expression increased greatly in the D-shape stage of pearl oyster development, when the shell was first formed. During the shell repair process, the expression level of fam20C increased 1.5 times at 6\xe2\x80\x89h after shell notching. Knockdown of fam20C in vivo by RNA interference resulted in abnormally stacking of calcium carbonate crystals at the edges of nacre tablets, showing direct evidence that fam20C participates in the shell formation. This study provides an insight into the role of kinase protein in the shell formation in mollusk and broaden our understanding of biomineralization mechanism. labels: #Biomineralization'
b"The pancrustacean theory groups crustaceans and hexapods (once thought to comprise separate clades within the Arthropoda) into a single clade. A key feature common to all pancrustaceans is their chitinous exoskeleton, with a major contribution by cuticular proteins. Among these, are the CPAP3's, a family of cuticular proteins, first identified in the hexapod Drosophila melanogaster and characterized by an N-terminal signaling peptide and three chitin-binding domains. In this study, CPAP3 proteins were mined from a transcriptomic library of a decapod crustacean, the crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus. Phylogenetic analysis of other CPAP3 proteins from hexapods and other crustaceans showed a high degree of conservation. Characterization of the crayfish proteins, designated CqCPAP3's, suggested a major role for CPAP3'sin cuticle formation. Loss-of-function experiments using RNAi supported such a notion by demonstrating crucial roles for several CqCPAP3 proteins during molting. A putative mode of action for the CqCPAP3 proteins -theoretically binding three chitin strands- was suggested by the structural data obtained from a representative recombinant CqCPAP3. The similarities between the CqCPAP3 proteins and their hexapod homologues further demonstrated common genetic and proteinaceous features of cuticle formation in pancrustaceans, thereby reinforcing the linkage between these two highly important phylogenetic groups. labels: #Biomineralization"
b'The bivalve Pinctada margaritifera exhibits three main transplant phenotypes derived from the donor (from which a mantle graft tissue, the saibo, is excised), the recipient (into which the saibo is implanted with a nucleus, leading to the formation of a pearl sac "chimera") and the cultured pearls themselves. This first phenome study on the species derived from a large experimental graft. Transplant phenotype was assessed at three scales: 1) macro, pearl size, colour, grade, 2) micro, pearl surface microstructure, and 3) molecular, biomineralisation gene expression level in saibo and pearl sac tissues. From donor to pearl, the phenome revealed fine variations of quality traits dependent on the position on the mantle where the saibo was cut, whose variation could overlap with inter-individual donor phenotype differences. A single donor phenotype could therefore produce multiple pearl phenotypes at the scale of the saibo position, mirroring its original activity at the mantle position level and the colour and shape of the shell. This phenome study provides essential information on phenotypic trait architecture enabling us to explore and explain the main biological functions and pave the way for a phenomic project on P. margaritifera that could benefit the pearl industry. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The coccolithophore species Emiliania huxleyi has one of the most global distributions in the modern oceans. They are characteristically covered with calcite scales called coccoliths. In this study, stable strontium immobilization during the calcification process was investigated to indirectly assess a proposed bioremediation approach for removing Sr2+ contamination from marine environments. Results indicate that E. huxleyi has high Sr2+ tolerance and removal efficiency in response to Sr2+ stress ranging from 5.6 to 105.6\xc2\xa0ppm. Sr2+ immobilization during E. huxleyi calcification indicates a concentration-dependent synergistic mechanism. At lower concentrations of Sr2+ (25.6\xc2\xa0ppm), Sr2+ is incorporated into coccoliths through competitive supply between Sr2+ and Ca2+. In addition, calcite productivity decreases with increased Sr2+ removal efficiency due to crystallographic transformation of coccoliths from hydrated calcite into aragonite at 55.6\xc2\xa0ppm Sr2+. Further formation of strontianite at 105.6\xc2\xa0ppm Sr2+ is due to precipitation of Sr2+ on the edge of the rims and radial arrays of the coccoliths. Our study implies that coccolithophores are capable of significant removal of Sr2+ from the marine environment. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Many areas of the ocean are nutrient-poor yet support large microbial populations, leading to intense competition for and recycling of nutrients. Organic phosphonates are frequently found in marine waters, but require specialist enzymes for catabolism. Previous studies have shown that the genes that encode these enzymes in marine systems are under Pho regulon control and so are repressed by inorganic phosphate. This has led to the conclusion that phosphonates are recalcitrant in much of the ocean, where phosphorus is not limiting despite the degradative genes being common throughout the marine environment. Here we challenge this paradigm and show, for the first time, that bacteria isolated from marine samples have the ability to mineralise 2-aminoethylphosphonate, the most common biogenic marine aminophosphonate, via substrate-inducible gene regulation rather than via Pho-regulated metabolism. Substrate-inducible, Pho-independent 2-aminoethylphosphonate catabolism therefore represents a previously unrecognised component of the oceanic carbon, nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Background and Aims: Boraginales are often characterized by a dense cover of stiff, mineralized trichomes, which may act as a first line of defence against herbivores. Recent studies have demonstrated that the widely reported silica and calcium carbonate in plant trichomes may be replaced by calcium phosphate. The present study investigates mineralization patterns in 42 species from nine families of the order Boraginales to investigate detailed patterns of mineralization and the possible presence of a phylogenetic signal in different mineralization patterns.Methods: The distribution of biominerals was analysed by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) including cryo-SEM and energy-dispersive X-ray analyses with element mapping. The observed distribution of biominerals was plotted onto a published phylogeny of the Boraginales. Three colours were selected to represent the principal elements: Si (red), Ca (green) and P (blue).Key Results: Calcium carbonate was present in the mineralized trichomes of all 42 species investigated, silica in 30 and calcium phosphate in 25; multiple mineralization with calcium carbonate and silica or calcium phosphate was found in all species, and 13 of the species were mineralized with all three biominerals. Trichome tips featured the most regular pattern - nearly all were exclusively mineralized with either silica or calcium phosphate. Biomineralization of the trichome shafts and bases was found to be more variable between species. However, the trichome bases were also frequently mineralized with calcium phosphate or silica, indicating that not only the tip is under functional constraints requiring specific patterns of chemical heterogeneity. The complete absence of either silica or phosphate may be an additional feature with systematic relevance.Conclusions: This study demonstrates that complex, site-specific and differential biomineralization is widespread across the order Boraginales. Calcium phosphate, only recently first reported as a structural plant biomineral, is common and appears to be functionally analogous to silica. A comparison with the phylogeny of Boraginales additionally reveals striking phylogenetic patterns. Most families show characteristic patterns of biomineralization, such as the virtual absence of calcium phosphate in Cordiaceae and Boraginaceae, the triple biomineralization of Heliotropiaceae and Ehretiaceae, or the absence of silica in Namaceae and Codonaceae. The complex chemical and phylogenetic patterns indicate that trichome evolution and functionalities are anything but simple and follow complex functional and phylogenetic constraints. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The ability to encrust in order to secure and maintain growth on a substrate is a key competitive innovation in benthic metazoans. Here we describe the substrate growth dynamics, mode of biomineralization and possible affinity of Namapoikia rietoogensis, a large (up to 1 m), robustly skeletal, and modular Ediacaran metazoan which encrusted the walls of synsedimentary fissures within microbial-metazoan reefs. Namapoikia formed laminar or domal morphologies with an internal structure of open tubules and transverse elements, and had a very plastic, non-deterministic growth form which could encrust both fully lithified surfaces as well as living microbial substrates, the latter via modified skeletal holdfasts. Namapoikia shows complex growth interactions and substrate competition with contemporary living microbialites and thrombolites, including the production of plate-like dissepiments in response to microbial overgrowth which served to elevate soft tissue above the microbial surface. Namapoikia could also recover from partial mortality due to microbial fouling. We infer initial skeletal growth to have propagated via the rapid formation of an organic scaffold via a basal pinacoderm prior to calcification. This is likely an ancient mode of biomineralization with similarities to the living calcified demosponge Vaceletia. Namapoikia also shows inferred skeletal growth banding which, combined with its large size, implies notable individual longevity. In sum, Namapoikia was a large, relatively long-lived Ediacaran clonal skeletal metazoan that propagated via an organic scaffold prior to calcification, enabling rapid, effective and dynamic substrate occupation and competition in cryptic reef settings. The open tubular internal structure, highly flexible, non-deterministic skeletal organization, and inferred style of biomineralization of Namapoikia places probable affinity within total-group poriferans. labels: #Biomineralization'
b"Ocean acidification, a product of increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide, may already have affected calcified organisms in the coastal zone, such as bivalves and other shellfish. Understanding species' responses to climate change requires the context of long-term dynamics. This can be particularly difficult given the longevity of many important species in contrast with the relatively rapid onset of environmental changes. Here, we present a unique archival dataset of mussel shells from a locale with recent environmental monitoring and historical climate reconstructions. We compare shell structure and composition in modern mussels, mussels from the 1970s, and mussel shells dating back to 1000-2420\xc2\xa0years BP. Shell mineralogy has changed dramatically over the past 15\xc2\xa0years, despite evidence for consistent mineral structure in the California mussel, Mytilus californianus, over the prior 2500\xc2\xa0years. We present evidence for increased disorder in the calcium carbonate shells of mussels and greater variability between individuals. These changes in the last decade contrast markedly from a background of consistent shell mineralogy for centuries. Our results use an archival record of natural specimens to provide centennial-scale context for altered minerology and variability in shell features as a response to acidification stress and illustrate the utility of long-term studies and archival records in global change ecology. Increased variability between individuals is an emerging pattern in climate change responses, which may equally expose the vulnerability of organisms and the potential of populations for resilience. labels: #Biomineralization"
b'The bacterium Cupriavidus metallidurans is capable of reducing toxic Au(i/iii)-complexes into metallic gold (Au) nano-particles, thereby mediating the (trans)formation of Au nuggets in Earth surface environments. In this study we describe a novel detoxification pathway, which prevents synergistic copper (Cu)/Au-toxicity. Gold-complexes and Cu-ions exert cooperative toxicity, because cellular uptake of Au(i/iii)-complexes blocks Cu(i) export from the cytoplasm by the Cu-efflux pump CupA. Using a combination of micro-analytical and biochemical methods we show that inducible resistance to these Cu/Au mixtures is mediated by the periplasmic Cu(i)-oxidase CopA, which functions as an oxygen-consuming Au(i)-oxidase. With high Au-complex loads the enzymatic activity of CopA detoxifies the reduction pathway of Au(iii)-complexes via Au(i)-intermediates to Au(0) nanoparticles in the periplasm. Thereby the concentration of highly toxic Au(i) in the cytoplasm is diminished, while allowing direct reduction of Au(iii) to Au nanoparticles in the periplasm. This permits C. metallidurans to thrive in Au-rich environments and biomineralise metallic Au. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The article is focused on the role of nanohydroxy apatite (nHAp) and cellulose nanofibers (CNFs) as fillers in the electrospun poly (vinyl alcohol) (ES-PVA) nanofibers for bone tissue engineering (TE). Fibrous scaffolds of PVA, PVA/nHAp (10 wt.%), and PVA/nHAp(10 wt.%)/CNF(3 wt.%) were successfully fabricated and characterized. Tensile test on electrospun PVA/nHAp10 and PVA/nHAp10/CNF3 revealed a three-fold and seven-fold increase in modulus compared with pure ES-PVA (45.45\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x894.77). Although, nanofiller loading slightly reduced the porosity percentage, all scaffolds had porosity higher than 70%. In addition, contact angle test proved the great hydrophilicity of scaffolds. The presence of fillers reduced in vitro biodegradation rate in PBS while accelerates biomineralization in simulated body fluid (SBF). Furthermore, cell viability, cell attachment, and functional activity of osteoblast MG-63 cells were studied on scaffolds showing higher cellular activity for scaffolds with nanofillers. Generally, the obtained results confirm that the 3-componemnt fibrous scaffold of PVA/nHAp/CNF has promising potential in hard TE. \xc2\xa9 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J Biomed Mater Res Part A: 106A: 1111-1120, 2018. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Magnetospirillum gryphiswaldense MSR-1 synthesizes membrane-enclosed magnetite (Fe3 O4 ) nanoparticles, magnetosomes, for magnetotaxis. Formation of these organelles involves a complex process comprising key steps which are governed by specific magnetosome-associated proteins. MamB, a cation diffusion facilitator (CDF) family member has been implicated in magnetosome-directed iron transport. However, deletion mutagenesis studies revealed that MamB is essential for the formation of magnetosome membrane vesicles, but its precise role remains elusive. In this study, we employed a multi-disciplinary approach to define the role of MamB during magnetosome formation. Using site-directed mutagenesis complemented by structural analyses, fluorescence microscopy and cryo-electron tomography, we show that MamB is most likely an active magnetosome-directed transporter serving two distinct, yet essential functions. First, MamB initiates magnetosome vesicle formation in a transport-independent process, probably by serving as a landmark protein. Second, MamB transport activity is required for magnetite nucleation. Furthermore, by determining the crystal structure of the MamB cytosolic C-terminal domain, we also provide mechanistic insight into transport regulation. Additionally, we present evidence that magnetosome vesicle growth and chain formation are independent of magnetite nucleation and magnetic interactions respectively. Together, our data provide novel insight into the role of the key bifunctional magnetosome protein MamB, and the early steps of magnetosome formation. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Plants have a complex passive fluid transport system capable of internalizing small molecules from the environment, and this system offers an ideal route for augmenting plants with functional nanomaterials. Current plant augmentation techniques use pre-formed nanomaterials and permeabilizing agents or plant cuttings. A so far unexplored concept is the formation of the functional material, in situ, from precursors small enough to be passively internalized through the roots without harming the plants. Metal-organic frameworks are ideal for in situ synthesis as they are composed of metal ions coordinated with organic ligands and have recently been mineralized around single-celled organisms in mild aqueous conditions. Herein, the synthesis of two types of metal-organic frameworks, zinc(2-methylimidazole)2 and lanthanide2 (terephthalate)3 , are reported inside a variety of plants. In situ synchrotron experiments help elucidate the formation kinetics and crystal phases of the nano-biohybrid plants. Plants augmented with luminescent metal-organic frameworks are utilized for small molecule sensing, although other applications, such as pathogen sensing, proton conductive plants, improved CO2 capture, bacteria-free nitrogen fixation, drought and fungi-resistance, and enhanced photosynthesis and photocatalysis, are foreseeable. Overall, the generation of functional materials inside of fully intact plants could lead to more complex nano-biohybrid sensors and organisms augmented with superior performance characteristics. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'The production of calcium carbonate by coccolithophores (haptophytes) contributes significantly to global biogeochemical cycling. The recent identification of a silicifying haptophyte, Prymnesium neolepis, has provided new insight into the evolution of biomineralisation in this lineage. However, the cellular mechanisms of biomineralisation in both calcifying and silicifying haptophytes remain poorly understood. To look for commonalities between these two biomineralisation systems in haptophytes, we have determined the role of actin and tubulin in the formation of intracellular biomineralised scales in the coccolithophore, Coccolithus braarudii and in P. neolepis. We find that disruption of the actin network interferes with secretion of the biomineralised elements in both C. braarudii and P. neolepis. In contrast, disruption of the microtubule network does not prevent secretion of the silica scales in P. neolepis but results in production of abnormally small silica scales and also results in the increased formation of malformed coccoliths in C. braarudii. We conclude that the cytoskeleton plays a crucial role in biomineralisation in both silicifying and calcifying haptophytes. There are some important similarities in the contribution of the cytoskeleton to these different forms of biomineralisation, suggesting that common cellular mechanisms may have been recruited to perform similar roles in both lineages. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Fusulinids are the most diverse, abundant and geographically widespread Paleozoic foraminifera which are widely considered to possess a "homogeneously microgranular" test microstructure composed of subangular grains of several micrometers in size. However, this texture appears to be a diagenetic artifact. Here we describe well-preserved Devonian calcareous fusulinids (Nanicella) from the Holy Cross Mountains (HCM) in central Poland. Foraminifera from Poland in which the primary nature of tests have not been masked by diagenesis are composed of low magnesium calcite spherical grains up to about 100 nanometers in diameter, identical to those observed in Recent and fossil hyaline foraminifera (Rotaliida, Globothalamea). These data call the paradigm of microgranular test microstructure of Foraminifera into question, and suggest a possible phylogenetic relationship between globothalamids and some fusulinids. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Artificial bio-based scaffolds offer broad applications in bioinspired chemistry, nanomedicine, and material science. One current challenge is to understand how the programmed self-assembly of biomolecules at the nanometre level can dictate the emergence of new functional properties at the mesoscopic scale. Here we report a general approach to design genetically encoded protein-based scaffolds with modular biochemical and magnetic functions. By combining chemically induced dimerization strategies and biomineralisation, we engineered ferritin nanocages to nucleate and manipulate microtubule structures upon magnetic actuation. Triggering the self-assembly of engineered ferritins into micrometric scaffolds mimics the function of centrosomes, the microtubule organizing centres of cells, and provides unique magnetic and self-organizing properties. We anticipate that our approach could be transposed to control various biological processes and extend to broader applications in biotechnology or material chemistry. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Mounting evidence suggests that TGF\xc3\xa2/BMP signaling pathway is most likely involved in shell biomineralization in molluscs, but the function of pathway receptors is poorly studied. Here, we cloned and identified two homologous BMP receptor genes, PfBMPR1B and PfBAMBI, from the pearl oyster Pinctada fucata. Real-time quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization revealed that these genes were expressed in mantle edge and pallial, specifically located at the outer epithelia. Knockdown of PfBMPR1B by RNA interference (RNAi) significantly decreased the expression levels of matrix protein (MP) genes and induced the abnormal ultrastructure of prismatic and nacreous layers. Conversely, knockdown of PfBAMBI significantly increased the expression levels of a portion of MP genes and induced the overgrowth of nacreous layer crystals. In the RNAi and shell notching experiments, MP gene expressions were competitively regulated by PfBMPR1B and PfBAMBI. In addition, the receptor inhibitor LDN193189 reduced the expression levels of MP genes in mantle primary cells and larvae, and induced abnormal D-shaped shell formation during larval development. Collectively, these results clearly show that PfBMPR1B and PfBAMBI are involved in regulating shell biomineralization in P. fucata. Our study therefore provides the direct evidence that BMP receptors participate in mollusc biomineralization. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Biomineralization means mineral formation under the influence of organisms. Sulphate-reducing bacteria (SRB) constitute an essential role of iron sulphide minerals precipitation. Their composition involves amorphous, non-stoichiometric or crystalline iron sulphides, weakly or strongly magnetic. Variation in environmental conditions can alter the reactive iron species within the mineral, potentially modifying their magnetic properties. Biogenic iron sulphide minerals can be used as heavy metals and toxic ions adsorbents in soil or water remediation. For these reasons, a series of laboratory-scale iron sulphide synthesis experiments with the aim to study the chemical composition, mineralogy and magnetic properties of iron sulphide precipitates were carried out using SRB under various cultivation mode and nutrient medium composition. Energy-dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX) showed formation of iron sulphides in all biogenic samples and iron phosphates in abiotic controls. Results of X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD) in biomineralized samples confirmed nanocrystalline greigite, mackinawite and sulphur alpha. Magnetic measurements showed that sample prepared by static cultivation without addition of fresh nutrient medium was the most magnetic, magnetic hysteresis of sample formed under semicontinuous mode without any nutrient supply was the lowest. Abiotic samples contained only vivianite and they did not prove any significant response to magnetic field. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Biomineralization marks one of the most significant evolutionary milestones among the Eukarya, but its roots in the fossil record remain obscure. We report crystallographic and geochemical evidence for controlled eukaryotic biomineralization in Neoproterozoic scale microfossils from the Fifteenmile Group of Yukon, Canada. High-resolution transmission electron microscopy reveals that the microfossils are constructed of a hierarchically organized interwoven network of fibrous hydroxyapatite crystals each elongated along the [001] direction, indicating biological control over microstructural crystallization. New Re-Os geochronological data from organic-rich shale directly below the fossil-bearing limestone constrain their age to <810.7 \xc2\xb1 6.3 million years ago. Mineralogical and geochemical variations from these sedimentary rocks indicate that dynamic global marine redox conditions, enhanced by local restriction, may have led to an increase in dissolved phosphate in pore and bottom waters of the Fifteenmile basin and facilitated the necessary geochemical conditions for the advent of calcium phosphate biomineralization. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Molluscan nacre is a fascinating biomineral consisting of a highly organized calcium carbonate composite that provides unique fracture toughness and an iridescent color. Organisms elaborately control biomineralization using organic macromolecules. We propose the involvement of the matrix protein Pif80 from the pearl oyster Pinctada fucata in the development of the inorganic phase during nacre biomineralization, based on experiments using the recombinant form of Pif80. Through interactions with calcium ions, Pif80 participates in the formation of polymer-induced liquid precursor-like amorphous calcium carbonate granules and stabilizes these granules by forming calcium ion-induced coacervates. At the calcification site, the disruption of Pif80 coacervates destabilizes the amorphous mineral precursors, resulting in the growth of a crystalline structure. The redissolved Pif80 controls the growth of aragonite on the polysaccharide substrate, which contributes to the formation of polygonal tablet structure of nacre. Our findings provide insight into the use of organic macromolecules by living organisms in biomineralization. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'At the Ediacaran/Cambrian boundary, ecosystems witnessed an unparalleled biological innovation: the appearance of shelled animals. Here, we report new paleoecological and paleobiological data on Cloudina, which was one of the most abundant shelled animals at the end of the Ediacaran. We report the close association of Cloudina tubes with microbial mat textures as well as organic-rich material, syndepositional calcite and goethite cement between their flanges, thus reinforcing the awareness of metazoan/microorganism interactions at the end of the Ediacaran. The preservation of in situ tubes suggests a great plasticity of substrate utilization, with evidence of different life modes and avoidance behavior. Geochemical analysis revealed walls composed of two secondary laminae and organic sheets. Some walls presented boreholes that are here described as predation marks. Taken together, these data add further information regarding the structuring of shelled animal communities in marine ecosystems. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'Objective To prepare biomimetic bone material by reconstructing type ? collagen combined with polyaspartic acid. Methods By acid hydrolysis,rat tail type ? collagen was decomposed into collagen fibers,which were then placed in the calcium phosphate mineralization solution. Under the cross-linking of glutaraldehyde,the collagen fibers were reconstructed and assembled into collagen fibers,and the calcium phosphate crystals were wrapped in the inner side of the collagen fibers for biomineralizationin. After poly aspartate acid was added,calcium hydroxyapatite calcium precursor was added into the collagen fibers to simulate thebiomimetic biomineralizationin the human body. After mineralization for 3-9 days,the bone mineralization process was observed by transmission electron microscopy and electron diffraction. Results Transmission electron microscopy and electron diffraction displayed that,after 3 days of mineralization,calcium hydroxyapatite precursor was wrapped in the collagen fiber gap,and the collagen fiber was partially mineralized. After 9 days of mineralization,calcium hydroxyapatite precursor completely infiltrated into the collagen fiber,and the amorphous calcium phosphate was transformed into hydroxyapatite calcium crystal. Thus,the simulation of bone mineralization was completed,and collagen type ? collagen/hydroxyapatite calcium biomimetic bone material was formed. Conclusion Reconstruction of type ? collagen combined with polyaspartic acid can prepare biomimetic bone material that has close chemical composition and molecular structure to the human bone tissue. labels: #Biomineralization'
b'In recent years, biomineralization process is being employed in development of bioconcrete, which is emerging as a sustainable method to enhance the durability of concrete by way of increasing compressive strength and reducing the chloride permeability. In this study, different bacterial strains isolated from the soils of the Laguna Region of Mexico were selected for further study. ACRN5 strain demonstrated higher urease activity than other strains, and the optimum substrate concentration, pH, and temperature were 120\xc2\xa0mM, pH\xc2\xa08, and 25\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, respectively. Further, Km and Vmax of urease activity of ACRN5 were 21.38\xc2\xa0mM and 0.212\xc2\xa0mM\xc2\xa0min-1, respectively. It was observed that addition of ACRN5 at 105\xc2\xa0cells\xc2\xa0ml-1 to cement-water mixture significantly increased (14.94%) in compressive strength after 36\xc2\xa0days of curing and reduced chloride penetration. Deposition of calcite in bio-mortars was observed in scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive X-ray diffraction spectrometry analyses. Results of this study demonstrated the role of microbially induced calcium carbonate precipitation in improving the physico-mechanical properties of bio-mortars. labels: #Biomineralization'
