b'M18 aspartyl aminopeptidases (DAPs) are well characterized in microbes and animals with likely functions in peptide processing and vesicle trafficking. In contrast, there is a dearth of knowledge on plant aminopeptidases with a preference for proteins and peptides with N-terminal acidic residues. During evolution of the Plantae, there was an expansion and diversification of the M18 DAPs. After divergence of the ancestral green algae from red and glaucophyte algae, a duplication yielded the DAP1 and DAP2 lineages. Subsequently DAP1 genes were lost in chlorophyte algae. A duplication of DAP2-related genes occurred early in green plant evolution. DAP2 genes were retained in land plants and picoeukaryotic algae and lost in green algae. In contrast, DAP2-like genes persisted in picoeukaryotic and green algae, while this lineage was lost in land plants. Consistent with this evolutionary path, Arabidopsis thaliana has two DAP gene lineages (AtDAP1 and AtDAP2). Similar to animal and yeast DAPs, AtDAP1 is localized to the cytosol or vacuole; while AtDAP2 harbors an N-terminal transit peptide and is chloroplast localized. His6-DAP1 and His6-DAP2 expressed in Escherichia coli were enzymatically active and dodecameric with masses exceeding 600 kDa. His6-DAP1 and His6-DAP2 preferentially hydrolyzed Asp-p-nitroanilide and Glu-p-nitroanilide. AtDAPs are highly conserved metallopeptidases activated by MnCl2 and inhibited by ZnCl2 and divalent ion chelators. The protease inhibitor PMSF inhibited and DTT stimulated both His6-DAP1 and His6-DAP2 activities suggesting a role for thiols in the AtDAP catalytic mechanism. The enzymes had distinct pH and temperature optima, as well as distinct kinetic parameters. Both enzymes had high catalytic efficiencies (kcat/Km) exceeding 1.0 x 107 M-1 sec-1. Using established molecular chaperone assays, AtDAP1 and AtDAP2 prevented thermal denaturation. AtDAP1 also prevented protein aggregation and promoted protein refolding. Collectively, these data indicate that plant DAPs have a complex evolutionary history and have evolved new biochemical features that may enable their role in vivo. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The invasive green alga Caulerpa cylindracea has become an important component of the diet of the Mediterranean white seabream Diplodus sargus. As a consequence of this "exotic diet", the algal bisindolic alkaloid caulerpin accumulates in the fish tissues. Although the compound shows structural similarity to endogenous indolamines that modulate animal behaviour, the potential impact of caulerpin on fish behaviour still remains unexplored. In this report, behavioural experiments both on groups and on single fish responding towards a mirror were performed under different doses of dietary caulerpin. Differences between treated and control groups for each behaviour and for the overall aggressive pattern during the different experimental phases showed that the aggressiveness of D. sargus decreased with the administration of caulerpin. These results call the attention to a still unexplored potential ability of bioactive metabolites from marine invasive species, to alter the behaviour on native species, with putative negative effects on patterns of fish growth and population dynamics. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"With increasing coastal infrastructure and use of novel materials there is a need to investigate the colonisation of assemblages associated with new structures, how these differ to natural and other artificial habitats and their potential impact on regional biodiversity. The colonisation of Europe's first artificial surf reef (ASR) was investigated at Boscombe on the south coast of England (2009-2014) and compared with assemblages on existing natural and artificial habitats. The ASR consists of geotextile bags filled with sand located 220m offshore on a sandy sea bed at a depth of 0-5m. Successional changes in epibiota were recorded annually on differently orientated surfaces and depths using SCUBA diving and photography. Mobile faunal assemblages were sampled using Baited Remote Underwater Video (BRUV). Distinct stages in colonisation were observed, commencing with bryozoans and green algae which were replaced by red algae, hydroids and ascidians, however there were significant differences in assemblage structure with depth and orientation. The reef is being utilised by migratory, spawning and juvenile life-history stages of fish and invertebrates. The number of non-native species was larger than on natural reefs and other artificial habitats and some occupied a significant proportion of the structure. The accumulation of 180 benthic and mobile taxa, recorded to date, appears to have arisen from a locally rich and mixed pool of native and non-native species. Provided no negative invasive impacts are detected on nearby protected reefs the creation of novel yet diverse habitats may be considered a beneficial outcome. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Peroxiredoxin 1 (Prdx1) is a ubiquitously expressed protein in eukaryotic cells, and plays an important role in cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and redox signaling. Although Prdx1 has been better studied in yeasts and humans, only few Prdx1 genes have been cloned in green algae. The microalga Dunaliella salina (D. salina) is a model for the study of a variety of human cilia-related diseases. In this study, a suppression subtractive hybridization cDNA library of D. salina was constructed, and 6 flagellum-associated genes including D. salina Prdx1 (DsPrdx1) were isolated and identified. A 956bp full-length cDNA of DsPrdx1 was cloned using rapid amplification of cDNA end (RACE). The open reading frame (ORF) of this DNA sequence encodes a polypeptide of 201 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 22kDa and a theoretical isoelectric point (pI) of 5.27. Sequence comparison showed that Prdx1 is highly evolutionarily conserved from the unicellular green alga D. salina to human. To our knowledge, this is the first reported full-length sequence of Prdx1 in D. salina. Interestingly, the protein expression of DsPrdx1 was obviously increased during flagellar disassembly in D. salina. Additionally, a yeast two-hybrid assay showed interaction between Prdx1 and RNA, and suggested that DsPrdx1 can protect RNA from degradation by RNase. Taken together, DsPrdx1 not only participates in flagellar disassembly, but also protects RNA from degradation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A Gram-stain-negative, motile, non-spore-forming, rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain B2T, was isolated from the culture broth of a marine microalga, Picochlorum sp. 122. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain B2T forms a robust cluster with members of the genus Pelagibacterium, and shares the highest sequence similarity of 96.80\xe2\x80\x8a% with Pelagibacterium halotolerans CGMCC 1.7692T. Optimal growth of strain B2T was observed at 33\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C, at pH 8 and in the presence of 1\xe2\x80\x8a% (w/v) NaCl. The predominant ubiquinone of strain B2T was Q-10, and the G+C content of the genomic DNA was 58.6\xe2\x80\x89mol%. The major fatty acid profile comprised C18\xe2\x80\x8a:\xe2\x80\x8a1\xcf\x897c/\xcf\x896c, C19\xe2\x80\x8a:\xe2\x80\x8a0 cyclo \xcf\x898c and C16\xe2\x80\x8a:\xe2\x80\x8a0. The major polar lipids of strain B2T were diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, two unidentified glycolipids and seven unidentified lipids. Comprehensive analyses based on a polyphasic characterization of strain B2T indicated that it represents a novel species of the genus Pelagibacterium, for which the name Pelagibacterium lentulum sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is B2T (=MCCC 1K03218T=CGMCC 1.15896T=KCTC 52551T). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A Gram-stain-negative, motile, non-spore-forming, ovoid or rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain B15T, was isolated from the culture broth of a marine microalga, Picochlorum sp. 122. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain B15T forms a stable cluster with Lutibaculum baratangense KCTC 22669T (95.4\xe2\x80\x8a% 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity), Tepidamorphus gemmatus CB-27AT (94.9\xe2\x80\x8a%) and Microbaculum marinum HSF11T (94.6\xe2\x80\x8a%) in the family Rhodobiaceae. Optimal growth of strain B15T was observed at 33\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C, pH 8-9 and in the presence of 3\xe2\x80\x8a% (w/v) NaCl. The only detected ubiquinone of strain B15T was Q-10, and the G+C content of the genomic DNA was 66.3\xe2\x80\x89mol%. The major fatty acid profile comprised C19\xe2\x80\x8a:\xe2\x80\x8a0 cyclo \xcf\x898c, C18\xe2\x80\x8a:\xe2\x80\x8a1\xcf\x897c/\xcf\x896c and C17\xe2\x80\x8a:\xe2\x80\x8a1 iso I/anteiso B. The major polar lipids of strain B15T were diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylmonomethylethanolamine, two unidentified aminolipids, and one unidentified lipid. Comprehensive analyses based on polyphasic characterization of strain B15T indicated that it represents a novel species of a new genusin the family Rhodobiaceae, for which the name Butyratibacter algicola gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain of the type species is B15T (=KCTC 52552T=MCCC 1K03221T). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Recently, the biosynthetic pathway for lycopadiene, a C40tetraterpenoid hydrocarbon, was deciphered from the L race of Botryococcus braunii, an alga that produces hydrocarbon oils capable of being converted into combustible fuels. The lycopadiene pathway is initiated by the squalene synthase (SS)-like enzyme lycopaoctaene synthase (LOS), which catalyzes the head-to-head condensation of two C20geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) molecules to produce C40lycopaoctaene. LOS shows unusual substrate promiscuity for SS or SS-like enzymes by utilizing C15farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) and C20phytyl diphosphate in addition to GGPP as substrates. These three substrates can be combined by LOS individually or in combinations to produce six different hydrocarbons of C30, C35, and C40chain lengths. To understand LOS substrate and product specificity, rational mutagenesis experiments were conducted based on sequence alignment with several SS proteins as well as a structural comparison with the human SS (HSS) crystal structure. Characterization of the LOS mutants in vitro identified Ser276 and Ala288 in the LOS active site as key amino acids responsible for controlling substrate binding, and thus the promiscuity of this enzyme. Mutating these residues to those found in HSS largely converted LOS from lycopaoctaene production to C30squalene production. Furthermore, these studies were confirmed in vivo by expressing LOS in E. coli cells metabolically engineered to produce high FPP and GGPP levels. These studies also offer insights into tetraterpene hydrocarbon metabolism in B. braunii and provide a foundation for engineering LOS for robust production of specific hydrocarbons of a desired chain length. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The type and concentration of inorganic carbon and nitrogen sources were manipulated to improve cell growth and lutein productivity of Desmodesmus sp. F51. Using nitrate as nitrogen source, the better cell growth and lutein accumulation were obtained under 2.5% CO2supply when compared to the addition of NaHCO3or Na2CO3. To solve the pH variation problem of ammonium consumption, the strategy of using dual carbon sources (NaHCO3and CO2) was explored. A lower bicarbonate-C: ammonium-N ratio led to a lower culture pH as well as lower lutein productivity, but significantly enhanced the auto-flocculation efficiency of the microalgal cells. The highest biomass productivity (939mg/L/d) and lutein productivity (5.22mg/L/d) were obtained when the bicarbonate-C/ammonium-N ratio and ammonium-N concentration were 1:1 and 150mg/L, respectively. The lutein productivity of 5.22mg/L/d is the highest value ever reported in the literature using batch phototrophic cultivation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The optimal culture conditions are critical factors for high microalgal biomass and lipid productivity. To optimize the photoautotrophic culture conditions, combination of the pH (regulated by CO2supply), dilution rate, and light intensity was systematically investigated for Ettlia sp. YC001 cultivation in a chemostat during 143days. The biomass productivity increased with the increase in dilution rate and light intensity, but decreased with increasing pH. The average lipid content was 19.8% and statistically non-variable among the tested conditions. The highest biomass and lipid productivities were 1.48gL-1d-1and 291.4mgL-1d-1with a pH of 6.5, dilution rate of 0.78d-1, and light intensity of 1500\xce\xbcmolphotonsm-2s-1. With a sufficient supply of CO2and nutrients, the light intensity was the main determinant of the photosynthetic rate. Therefore, the surface-to-volume ratio of a photobioreactor should enable efficient light distribution to enhance microalgal growth. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Aerial algae are an important biological factor causing the biodegradation of building materials and facades. Conservation procedures aimed at the protection of historic and utility materials must be properly designed to avoid an increase of the degradation rate. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of silver nanoparticles (AgNP) synthetized with features contributing to the accessibility and toxicity (spherical shape, small size) on the most frequently occurring species of green algae in aerial biofilms and thus, the most common biodegradation factor-Apatococcus lobatus. Changes in the chloroplasts structure and the photosynthetic activity of the cells under AgNP exposure were made using confocal laser microscopy and digital image analysis and the estimation of growth inhibition rate was made using a biomass assay. In the majority of cases, treatment with AgNP caused a time and dose dependant degradation of chloroplasts and decrease in the photosynthetic activity of cells leading to the inhibition of aerial algae growth. However, some cases revealed an adaptive response of the cells. The response was induced by either a too low, or-after a short time-too high concentration of AgNP. Taken together, the data suggest that AgNP may be used as a biocide against aerial algal coatings; however, with a proper caution related to the concentration of the nanoparticles. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of nine algae species were performed at two reaction temperatures (280 and 320\xc2\xb0C) to compare the effect of their biomass composition on product yields and properties. Results obtained after HTL indicate large variations in terms of bio-oil yields and its properties. The maximum bio-oil yield (66wt%) was obtained at 320\xc2\xb0C with a high lipid containing algae Nannochloropsis. The higher heating value of bio-oils ranged from 31 to 36MJ/kg and around 50% of the bio-oils was in the vacuum gas oil range while high lipid containing algae Nannochloropsis contained a significant portion (33-42%) in the diesel range. A predictive relationship between bio-oil yields and biochemical compositions was developed and showed a broad agreement between predictive and experimental yields. The aqueous phases obtained had high amount of TOC (12-43g/L), COD (35-160g/L), TN (1-18g/L), ammonium (0.34-12g/L) and phosphate (0.7-12g/L). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Periphytic algae are important components of aquatic ecosystems. However, the factors driving periphyton species richness variation remain largely unexplored. Here, we used data from a subtropical floodplain (Upper Paran\xc3\xa1 River floodplain, Brazil) to quantify the influence of environmental variables (total suspended matter, temperature, conductivity, nutrient concentrations, hydrology, phytoplankton biomass, phytoplankton species richness, aquatic macrophyte species richness and zooplankton density) on overall periphytic algal species richness and on the richness of different algal groups defined by morphological traits (cell size and adherence strategy). We expected that the coefficients of determination of the models estimated for different trait-based groups would be higher than the model coefficient of determination of the entire algal community. We also expected that the relative importance of explanatory variables in predicting species richness would differ among algal groups. The coefficient of determination for the model used to predict overall periphytic algal species richness was higher than the ones obtained for models used to predict the species richness of the different groups. Thus, our first prediction was not supported. Species richness of aquatic macrophytes was the main predictor of periphyton species richness of the entire community and a significant predictor of the species richness of small mobile, large mobile and small-loosely attached algae. Abiotic variables, phytoplankton species richness, chlorophyll-a concentration, and hydrology were also significant predictors, depending on the group. These results suggest that habitat heterogeneity (as proxied by aquatic macrophytes richness) is important for maintaining periphyton species richness in floodplain environments. However, other factors played a role, suggesting that the analysis of species richness of different trait-based groups unveils relationships that were not detectable when the entire community was analysed together. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Graphene and ionic liquids (ILs) released into the environment will interact with each other. So far however, the risks associated with the concurrent exposure of biota to graphene and ILs in the environment have received little attention. The research reported here focused on observing and predicting the joint toxicity effects in the green alga Scenedesmus obliquus exposed to binary mixtures of intrinsic graphene (iG)/graphene oxide (GO) and five ILs of varying anionic and cationic types. The isolated ILs in the binary mixtures were the main contributors to toxicity. The binary GO-IL mixtures resulted in more severe joint toxicity than the binary iG-IL mixtures, irrespective of mixture ratios. The mechanism of the joint toxicity may be associated with the adsorption capability of the graphenes for the ILs, the dispersion stability of the graphenes in aquatic media, and modulation of the binary mixtures-induced oxidative stress. A toxic unit assessment showed that the graphene and IL toxicities were additive at low concentration of the mixtures but antagonistic at high concentration of the mixtures. Predictions made using the concentration addition and independent action models were close to the observed joint toxicities regardless of mixture types and mixture ratios. These findings provide new insights that are of use in the risk assessment of mixtures of engineered nanoparticles and other environmentally relevant contaminants. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'An efficient approach involving surfactant treatment, or the modification and utilization of surfactants that naturally occur in algae (algal-based surfactants), was developed to assist in the extraction of lipids from wet algae. Surfactants were found to be able to completely replace polar organic solvents in the extraction process. The highest yield of algal lipids extracted by hexane and algal-based surfactants was 78.8%, followed by 78.2% for hexane and oligomeric surfactant extraction, whereas the lipid yield extracted by hexane and ethanol was only 60.5%. In addition, the saponifiable lipids extracted by exploiting algal-based surfactants and hexane, or adding oligomeric surfactant and hexane, accounted for 78.6% and 75.4% of total algal lipids, respectively, which was more than 10% higher than the lipids extracted by hexane and ethanol. This work presents a method to extract lipids from algae using only nonpolar organic solvents, while obtaining high lipid yields and high selectivity to saponifiables. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'After the exponential growth phase, variability in the scattering efficiency of phytoplankton cells over their complete life cycle is not well characterised. Bulk measurements are impacted by senescent cells and detritrus. Thus the analysis of the evolution of the optical properties thanks to their morphological and/or intra-cellular variations remains poorly studied. Using the Cytosense flow cytometer (CytoBuoy b.v., NL), the temporal course of the forward and sideward efficiencies of two phytoplankton species (Thalassiosira pseudonana and Chlamydomonas concordia) were analyzed during a complete life-cycle. These two species differ considerably from a morphological point of view. Over the whole experiment, the forward and sideward efficiencies of Thalassiosira pseudonana were, on average, respectively 2.2 and 1.6 times higher than the efficiencies of Chlamydomonas concordia. Large intra-species variability of the efficiencies were observed over the life cycle of the considered species. It highlights the importance of considering the optical properties of phytoplankton cells as a function of the population growth stage of the considered species. Furthermore, flow cytometry measurements were combined with radiative transfer simulations and biogeochemical and optical measurements. Results showed that the real refractive index of the chloroplast is a key parameter driving the sideward signal and that a simplistic two-layered model (cytoplasm-chloroplast) seems particularly appropriate to represent the phytoplankton cells. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Steel components are typically treated with anti-corrosion coatings like epoxy or polyurethane resins to protect the integrity and functioning of steel. Such resins may contain substances, such as bisphenol A (BPA), that have caused concern in a human and environmental toxicological context. We investigated the release of toxicity from four anti-corrosion coatings used in hydraulic and civil engineering. Resins were applied onto glass plates and leachate samples produced by horizontally shaking the plates in water for 7 days. Two experiments were conducted, one with a 1 day and one with a 7 day curing period. Using a suite of bioassays, we tested samples for: agonistic and antagonistic effects on various mammalian nuclear receptors; inhibition of photosynthesis and growth in algae; inhibition of bacterial bioluminescence; and inhibition of water flea reproduction. Concentrations of BPA, bisphenol F and various BPA transformation products were determined by chemical analysis (LC-MS/MS). Bioassay results were evaluated using a scheme developed by DIBt (Centre of Competence for Construction, Berlin, Germany). Three products induced responses in one or more of the measured endpoints and toxicity profiles varied markedly in intensity across products. One product released high amounts of BPA which was associated with effects on nuclear receptor transactivation, requiring a more than 700-fold dilution for effect induction to fall below 20%. The same product was also the most toxic to water flea reproduction, requiring ca. 70-fold dilution for effects to fall below 20%. Another product was highly toxic in terms of bacterial bioluminescence, particularly after a shorter curing time, requiring a ca. 1'300-fold dilution for effects to fall below 20%. The third product required a 22-fold dilution for inhibition of water flea reproduction to drop below 20%. Results show that anti-corrosion coatings based on epoxy resins can be a source of toxicity to the aquatic environment. The fact that some products are more toxic than others highlights opportunities for the development of low risk formulations and products with better environmental performance. Finally, the DIBt scheme provides a useful starting point to develop further ecotoxicity guidelines for testing and data evaluation of leachates from construction materials. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Photosynthetic unicellular organisms are considered as promising alternative protein sources. The aim of this study is to understand the extent to which these green sources differ with respect to their gross composition and how these differences affect the final protein isolate. Using mild isolation techniques, proteins were extracted and isolated from four different unicellular sources (Arthrospira (spirulina) maxima, Nannochloropsis gaditana, Tetraselmis impellucida, and Scenedesmus dimorphus). Despite differences in protein contents of the sources (27-62% w/w) and in protein extractability (17-74% w/w), final protein isolates were obtained that had similar protein contents (62-77% w/w) and protein yields (3-9% w/w). Protein solubility as a function of pH was different between the sources and in ionic strength dependency, especially at pH<4.0. Overall, the characterization and extraction protocol used allows a relatively fast and well-described isolation of purified proteins from novel protein sources. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Shallow marine ecosystems naturally experience fluctuating physicochemical conditions across spatial and temporal scales. Widespread coral-bleaching events, induced by prolonged heat stress, highlight the importance of how the duration and frequency of thermal stress influence the adaptive physiology of photosymbiotic calcifiers. Large benthic foraminifera harboring algal endosymbionts are major tropical carbonate producers and bioindicators of ecosystem health. Like corals, they are sensitive to thermal stress and bleach at temperatures temporarily occurring in their natural habitat and projected to happen more frequently. However, their thermal tolerance has been studied so far only by chronic exposure, so how they respond under more realistic episodic heat-event scenarios remains unknown. Here, we determined the physiological responses of Amphistegina gibbosa, an abundant western Atlantic foraminifera, to four different treatments--control, single, episodic, and chronic exposure to the same thermal stress (32\xc2\xb0C)--in controlled laboratory cultures. Exposure to chronic thermal stress reduced motility and growth, while antioxidant capacity was elevated, and photosymbiont variables (coloration, oxygen-production rates, chlorophyll a concentration) indicated extensive bleaching. In contrast, single- and episodic-stress treatments were associated with higher motility and growth, while photosymbiont variables remained stable. The effects of single and episodic heat events were similar, except for the presumable occurrence of reproduction, which seemed to be suppressed by both episodic and chronic stress. The otherwise different responses between treatments with thermal fluctuations and chronic stress indicate adaptation to thermal peaks, but not to chronic exposure expected to ensue when baseline temperatures are elevated by climate change. This firstly implies that marine habitats with a history of fluctuating thermal stress potentially support resilient physiological mechanisms among photosymbiotic organisms. Secondly, there seem to be temporal constraints related to heat events among coral reef environments and reinforces the importance of temporal fluctuations in stress exposure in global-change studies and projections. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We characterized molecularly the first freshwater member ever reported for the family Bathycoccaceae in Lake Musters (Argentinean Patagonia). Members of this family are extremely numerous and play a key ecological role in marine systems as primary producers. We cloned a fragment comprising the SSU rRNA gene+ITS region from environmental DNA using specific mamiellophyte primers. The unique SSU rRNA gene sequence obtained clustered robustly with Bathycoccus prasinos. Analysis of the two-dimensional structure of the ITS region showed the presence of a typical supplementary helix in the ITS-2 region, a synapomorphy of Bathycoccaceae, which confirmed further its phylogenetic placement. We finally discuss the possible causes for the presence of this organism in Lake Musters. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'An innovation in biotechnology: for the first time, researchers from MCI Innsbruck and the University of Salzburg have manufactured and purified a plant-based allergen in a green alga and opened the door to a specific immunotherapy against allergies. Their vision: to replace the unpleasant injection with oral administration, as its production is both simple and cost-effective. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Channelrhodopsins (ChRs) are light-gated ion channels widely used for activating selected cells in large cellular networks. ChR variants with a red-shifted absorption maximum, such as the modifiedVolvox carteriChR1 red-activatable channelrhodopsin ("ReaChR," \xce\xbbmax= 527 nm), are of particular interest because longer wavelengths allow optical excitation of cells in deeper layers of organic tissue. In all ChRs investigated so far, proton transfer reactions and hydrogen bond changes are crucial for the formation of the ion-conducting pore and the selectivity for protonsversuscations, such as Na+, K+, and Ca2+(1). By using a combination of electrophysiological measurements and UV-visible and FTIR spectroscopy, we characterized the proton transfer events in the photocycle of ReaChR and describe their relevance for its function. 1) The central gate residue Glu130(Glu90inChlamydomonas reinhardtii(Cr) ChR2) (i) undergoes a hydrogen bond change in D \xe2\x86\x92 K transition and (ii) deprotonates in K \xe2\x86\x92 M transition. Its negative charge in the open state is decisive for proton selectivity. 2) The counter-ion Asp293(Asp253inCrChR2) receives the retinal Schiff base proton during M-state formation. Starting from M, a photocycle branching occurs involving (i) a direct M \xe2\x86\x92 D transition and (ii) formation of late photointermediates N and O. 3) The DC pair residue Asp196(Asp156inCrChR2) deprotonates in N \xe2\x86\x92 O transition. Interestingly, the D196N mutation increases 15-syn-retinal at the expense of 15-anti, which is the predominant isomer in the wild type, and abolishes the peak current in electrophysiological measurements. This suggests that the peak current is formed by 15-antispecies, whereas 15-synspecies contribute only to the stationary current. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Here we link plant source phylogeny to its chemical characteristics and determine parameters useful for predicting DOM phytotoxicity towards algal monocultures. We found that DOM characterised using UV-visible spectroscopic indices and elemental analysis is useful for distinguishing DOM plant sources. Specifically, combined values of absorbance at 440\xc2\xa0nm and coefficients for the spectral slope ratio, were used to distinguish between gymnosperm-leached DOM and that from angiosperms. In our bioassays, DOM leached from 4\xc2\xa0g leaf L-1resulted in over 40% inhibition of photosynthetic yield for the cyanobacterium, Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii, for eight of the nine plants tested. Significant variables for predicting inhibition of yield were DOM exposure time and plant source, or using an alternate model, exposure time and spectroscopic and elemental measures. Our study proposes spectroscopic indices which can estimate a plant source's contribution to aquatic DOM, may provide insights into ecological outcomes, such as phytotoxicity to algae. The cyanobacterium (C.\xc2\xa0raciborskii) was more sensitive to DOM than a green algae (Monoraphidium spp.), as identified in a subsequent dose-response experiment with five different DOM plant sources. Low level additions of angiosperm derived-DOM (i.e. 0.5\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0L-1) were slight phytotoxic to Monoraphidium spp. causing 30% inhibition of yield, while C.\xc2\xa0raciborskii was not affected. Higher DOM additions (i.e. 2\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0L-1) caused 100% inhibition of yield for C.\xc2\xa0raciborskii, while Monoraphidium spp. inhibition remained under 30%. The divergence in algal sensitivity to DOM indicates that in aquatic systems, DOM derived from catchment vegetation has the potential to affect algal assemblages. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Seagriculture, which can provide offshore grown macroalgae biomass would play a significant role in bioeconomy. Nevertheless, seagriculture development has been hindered by the lack of laboratory photobioreactors that enable fundamental and pilot scale macroalgae research. In this work, a macroalgae photobioreactor (MPBR) was developed and integrated into the building. The MPBR operation was demonstrated for 6months with cultivation of Cladophora sp., Ulva compressa and Ulva rigida green macroalgae species isolated from 3 sites at the Eastern Mediterranean coast. The growth rate, protein, ash, specific energy density, rhamnose, xylose, arabinose, glucose, galactose and glucuronic acid content of the cultivated species were quantified. The maximum accumulated energy rates were 0.033WhL-1d-1for Cladophora sp., 0.081WhL-1d-1for U. compressa and 0.029WhL-1d-1for U. rigida. This work provides a detailed design of an indoor, urban photobioreactor for cultivation, maintenance and energy balance analysis of macroalgae biomass for biorefinery. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A capillary micellar electrokinetic chromatography (MEKC) method was developed enabling the stereoselective separation of the insecticide bioallethrin. The use of sodium deoxycholate bile salt and acetyl-\xce\xb2-cyclodextrin (acetyl-\xce\xb2-CD) made possible the separation of bioallethrin stereoisomers with a high enantioresolution (7.4) in a short analysis time (6.5min). The analytical characteristics of the developed method were evaluated in terms of linearity, accuracy, precision, and limits of detection (LOD) and quantitation (LOQ) showing a good performance for the quantitation of bioallethrin stereoisomers with LODs of 0.2 and 0.3mg/L. The developed method was applied to the stereoselective analysis of a commercial bioallethrin pediculicide formulation and to evaluate the toxicity of bioallethrin stereoisomers on the growth of the unicellular freshwater green alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and on the germination of the higher plant Sorghum bicolor (non-target organisms). The analysis of the commercial pediculicide showed a good agreement between the contents determined for the two stereoisomers and those labelled in the commercial samples. Different toxic responses and biodegradation profiles were found for each stereoisomer in ecotoxicity assays. The mixture of S/R stereoisomers of bioallethrin resulted more toxic than S-bioallethrin for green algae, with EC50 values of 1.10\xc2\xb10.06 for the mixture and of 1.73\xc2\xb10.05mg/L for the pure S-biallethrin (esbiol). Germination of plants seeds was also affected. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Effluent dissolved organic nitrogen (DON) is problematic in nutrient sensitive surface waters and needs to be reduced to meet demanding total dissolved nitrogen discharge limits. Bioavailable DON (ABDON) is a portion of DON utilized by algae or algae+bacteria, while biodegradable DON (BDON) is a portion of DON decomposable by bacteria. ABDON and BDON in a two-stage trickling filter (TF) wastewater treatment plant was evaluated using three different microalgal species, Selenastrum capricornutum, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Chlorella vulgaris and mixed cultured bacteria. Results showed that up to 80% of DON was bioavailable to algae or algae+bacteria inoculum while up to 60% of DON was biodegradable in all the samples. Results showed that C. reinhardtii and C. vulgaris can be used as a test species the same as S. capricornutum since there were no significant differences among these three algae species based on their ability to remove nitrogen species. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Plastic pollution has been globally recognized as a critical issue for marine ecosystems and nanoplastics constitute one of the last unexplored areas to understand the magnitude of this threat. However, current difficulties in sampling and identifying nano-sized debris make hard to assess their occurrence in marine environment. Polystyrene nanoparticles (PS NPs) are largely used as nanoplastics in ecotoxicological studies and although acute exposures have been already investigated, long-term toxicity on marine organisms is unknown. Our study aims at evaluating the effects of 40nm PS anionic carboxylated (PS-COOH) and 50nm cationic amino-modified (PS-NH2) NPs in two planktonic species, the green microalga Dunaliella tertiolecta and the brine shrimp Artemia franciscana, respectively prey and predator. PS NP behaviour in exposure media was determined through DLS, while their toxicity to microalgae and brine shrimps evaluated through 72h growth inhibition test and 14 d long-term toxicity test respectively. Moreover, the expression of target genes (i.e. clap and cstb), having a role in brine shrimp larval growth and molting, was measured in 48h brine shrimp larvae. A different behaviour of the two PS NPs in exposure media as well as diverse toxicity to the two planktonic species was observed. PS-COOH formed micro-scale aggregates (Z-Average>1\xce\xbcm) and did not affect the growth of microalgae up to 50\xce\xbcg/ml or that of brine shrimps up to 10\xce\xbcg/ml. However, these negatively charged NPs were adsorbed on microalgae and accumulated (and excreted) in brine shrimps, suggesting a potential trophic transfer from prey to predator. On the opposite, PS-NH2-formed nano-scale aggregates (Z-Average<200nm), caused inhibition of algal growth (EC50=12.97\xce\xbcg/ml) and mortality in brine shrimps at 14 d (LC50=0.83\xce\xbcg/ml). Moreover, 1\xce\xbcg/ml PS-NH2significantly induced clap and cstb genes, explaining the physiological alterations (e.g. increase in molting) previously observed in 48h larvae, but also suggesting an apoptotic pathway triggered by cathepsin L-like protease in brine shrimps upon PS-NH2exposure. These findings provide a first insight into long-term toxicity of nanoplastics to marine plankton, underlining the role of the surface chemistry in determining the behaviour and effects of PS NPs, in terms of adsorption, growth inhibition, accumulation, gene modulation and mortality. The use of long-term end-point has been identified as valuable tool for assessing the impact of nanoplastics on marine planktonic species, being more predictable of real exposure scenarios for risk assessment purposes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this study, an efficient electro-flocculation process for Dunaliella salina with energy production by aluminum-air battery has been successfully applied. The formed aluminum hydroxide hydrates during discharging of battery were positively charged, which have a great potential for microalgae flocculation. The precipitation of aluminum hydroxide hydrates by algae also could improve the performance of aluminum-air battery. The harvesting efficiency could reach 97% in 20mins with energy production of 0.11kWh/kg. This discharging electro-flocculation (DEF) technology provides a new energy producing process to effectively harvest microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this work, the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of microalgal Tetraselmis sp. was conducted at various reaction temperatures (250-350\xc2\xb0C) and reaction times (10-60min). A general reaction network and a quantitative kinetic model were proposed for the HTL of microalgae. In this reaction network, the primary decomposition of lipids, proteins, and carbohydrates generated heavy oil (HO), light oil (LO), and aqueous-phase (AP) products. Then, reversible interconversions and further decomposition of these product fractions to produce gas product were followed. The model accurately captures the trends observed in the experimental data. Analyses of the kinetic parameters (reaction rate constants and activation energies) suggested the dominant reaction pathways as well as the contribution of the biochemical compositions to the bio-oil yield. Finally, the kinetic parameters calculated from the model were utilized to explore the parameter space in order to predict the liquefaction product yields depending on the reaction time and temperature. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Dyes are widely used in various sectors and can be released into the environment where they persist for a long time because of their high stability to light or temperature and their resistance to environmental degradation. Dyes are often poorly characterized and toxicological/ecotoxicological data are available only for a few. These features, coupled with their toxicity, make dyes a possible source of ecological concern, particularly for freshwater aquatic ecosystems. Therefore, new data may be very useful for their risk assessment. In the present study, we investigated the aquatic toxicity of 42 commercial dye formulations using the application of in silico tools and ecological bioassays. The in silico approach was used to assess the similarities among the dyes, highlighting that dyes from the same chemical class are generally similar. No correlation was found among dyes with the same color. Acute and long-term ecotoxicological assays with daphnids and algae were applied to evaluate the potential impact of these products, according to the OECD guidelines 201 and 202. The bioassays were able to identify structures with potential ecotoxicity: only 9 formulations showed toxicity lower than 100mg/L for daphnids while 30 dyes were toxic for algae. In our experimental conditions, algae were more sensitive to dye toxicity, particularly when the effects on cell number were considered. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Lobosphaera incisa (L. incisa) is an oleaginous microalga that stores triacylglycerol (TAG) rich in arachidonic acid in lipid bodies (LBs). This organelle is gaining attention in algal research, since evidence is accumulating that proteins attached to its surface fulfill important functions in TAG storage and metabolism.RESULTS: Here, the composition of the LB proteome in L incisa was investigated by comparing different cell fractions in a semiquantitative proteomics approach. After applying stringent filters to the proteomics data in order to remove contaminating proteins from the list of possible LB proteins (LBPs), heterologous expression of candidate proteins in tobacco pollen tubes, allowed us to confirm 3 true LBPs: A member of the algal Major Lipid Droplet Protein family, a small protein of unknown function and a putative lipase. In addition, a TAG lipase that belongs to the SUGAR DEPENDENT 1 family of TAG lipases known from oilseed plants was identified. Its activity was verified by functional complementation of an Arabidopsis thaliana mutant lacking the major seed TAG lipases.CONCLUSIONS: Here we describe 3 LBPs as well as a TAG lipase from the oleaginous microalga L. incisa and discuss their possible involvement in LB metabolism. This study highlights the importance of filtering LB proteome datasets and verifying the subcellular localization one by one, so that contaminating proteins can be recognized as such. Our dataset can serve as a valuable resource in the identification of additional LBPs, shedding more light on the intriguing roles of LBs in microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Immediate enumeration of phytoplankton is seldom possible. Therefore, fixation and subsequent storage are required for delayed analysis. This study investigated the influence of glutaraldehyde (GA) concentrations (0.25%, 0.5%, and 1%) and storage temperatures (-80\xc2\xb0CLN2, -80\xc2\xb0C, -20\xc2\xb0C, and 5\xc2\xb0C) on Tetraselmis indica for flow cytometric analysis. Cell recovery, granularity, and membrane permeability were independent of GA concentration whereas cell size and chlorophyll autofluorescence were concentration dependent. After an initial cell loss (16-19%), no cell loss was observed when samples were stored at 5\xc2\xb0C. Cell recovery was not influenced by storage temperature until 4months but later samples preserved at -80\xc2\xb0CLN2, -80\xc2\xb0C, and -20\xc2\xb0C resulted in ~41% cell loss. Although maximum cell recovery with minimal effect on cell integrity was obtained at 5\xc2\xb0C, autofluorescence was retained better at -80\xc2\xb0CLN2and -80\xc2\xb0C. This suggests that in addition to fixative, the choice of storage temperature is equally important. Thus for long-term preservation, especially to retain autofluorescence, the use of lower concentration (0.25%) of GA when stored at a lower temperature (-80\xc2\xb0CLN2and -80\xc2\xb0C) while a higher concentration (1%) of GA when stored at a higher temperature (5\xc2\xb0C) is recommended. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Transport and release of waterborne organisms as a result of ballasting and de-ballasting operations is widely acknowledged to represent an important mechanism for invasions by non-indigenous species. Regulatory requirements have been implemented globally to require treatment of ballast water before its release to the environment as a means of minimizing risks of invasion. UV-based processes represent an option for ballast water treatment; however, their use will require development of appropriate methods for reactor validation. To address this need, Tetraselmis was examined as challenge organism using a most probable number (MPN) assay for quantification of the concentration of viable (reproductively active) cells in suspension. A low pressure collimated-beam reactor was used to investigate UV254dose-response behavior of Tetraselmis. Based on the experimental conditions applied, Tetraselmis indicated 4.5-5 log10units of inactivation for UV254doses of approximately 120\xc2\xa0mJ/cm2, with no apparent change of resistance resulting from repeated exposure. A medium pressure UV collimated-beam reactor equipped with a series of narrow bandpass optical filters was used to investigate the action spectrum of Tetraselmis for wavelengths ranging from 228\xc2\xa0nm-297\xc2\xa0nm. Radiation with wavelengths in the range 254-280\xc2\xa0nm was observed to be most efficient for inactivation of Tetraselmis. Additionally, DNA was extracted from Tetraselmis to allow measurement of its absorption spectrum. These results indicated strong absorbance from 254\xc2\xa0nm to 280\xc2\xa0nm, thereby suggesting that damage to DNA plays an important role in the inactivation of Tetraselmis sp. However, deviations of the action spectrum shape from the shape of the DNA absorption spectrum suggest that UV-induced damage to biomolecules other than DNA may contribute to Tetraselmis inactivation at some wavelengths in the UVC range. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Evidence is increasing that micro- and nanoplastic particles can have adverse effects on aquatic organisms. Exposure studies have so far mainly been qualitative since quantitative measurements of particle ingestion are analytically challenging. The aim of this study was therefore to use a quantitative approach for determining ingestion and egestion of micro- and nanoplastics in Daphnia magna and to analyze the influence of particle size, exposure duration and the presence of food. One week old animals were exposed to 2\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm and 100\xc2\xa0nm fluorescent polystyrene beads (1\xc2\xa0mg/l) for 24\xc2\xa0h, followed by a 24\xc2\xa0h egestion period in clean medium. During both phases body burdens of particles were determined by measuring the fluorescence intensity in dissolved tissues. Ingestion and egestion were investigated in the absence and presence of food (6.7\xc2\xb7105\xc2\xa0cells of Raphidocelis subcapitata per ml). Furthermore, feeding rates of daphnids in response to particle exposure were measured as well as effects on reproduction during a 21 days exposure (at 1\xc2\xa0mg/l, 0.5\xc2\xa0mg/l and 0.1\xc2\xa0mg/l) to investigate potential impairments of physiology. Both particle sizes were readily ingested, but the ingested mass of particles was five times higher for the 2\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm particles than for the 100\xc2\xa0nm particles. Complete egestion did not occur within 24\xc2\xa0h but generally higher amounts of the 2\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm particles were egested. Animal body burdens of particles were strongly reduced in the presence of food. Daphnid feeding rates decreased by 21% in the presence of 100\xc2\xa0nm particles, but no effect on reproduction was found despite high body burdens of particles at the end of 21 days exposure. The lower egestion and decreased feeding rates, caused by the 100\xc2\xa0nm particles, could indicate that particles in the nanometer size range are potentially more hazardous to D.\xc2\xa0magna compared to larger particle sizes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Copper and Cd are natural constituents of freshwater ecosystems, both cycling influenced by microbial communities. The present research examined the impacts of environmentally relevant concentrations of Cu and Cd on the growth, viability, cell size, chlorophyll a (Chl a) content and photochemical efficiency of the tropical freshwater phytoplankton Chlorolobion braunii. Cell growth was significantly impaired by Cu and Cd, with EC50occurring at 33.6 and 1.6\xc2\xb5M, respectively. At sublethal levels (<EC50), cell death was already induced at 5\xc2\xb5M Cu and 1\xc2\xb5MCd. Average cell volume significantly increased as metal concentrations increased, as did the Chl a content per cell, although the Chl a content per unit volume decreased. Copper did not affect both the photosystem II (PSII) maximum quantum yield (\xce\xa6M) or the operational quantum yield (\xce\xa6E), while Cd significantly impacted \xce\xa6E, with EC50occurring at 18.4\xc2\xb5M. Different responses for Cu and Cd were obtained whether the photochemical fluorescence quenching (Qp) or non-photochemical quenching (Qn) were considered. Qp decreased after Cd addition, but was not altered after Cu addition. Qn values significantly increased after the addition of either metal. Non-photochemical quenching due to heat dissipation (NPQ) significantly increased in response to both metals, but it was more pronounced in the case of Cd. Overall, Cd was more toxic to C. braunii than Cu. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Recent progress in molecular techniques has begun to alter traditional recognition of lichens as symbiotic organisms comprised of a fungus and photosynthetic partners (green algae and/or cyanobacteria). Diverse organisms, especially various non-photosynthetic bacteria, are now indicated to be integral components of lichen symbiosis. Although lichen-associated bacteria are inferred to have functions that could support the symbiosis, little is known about their physical and nutritional interaction with fungi and algae. In the present study, we identified specific interaction between a lichen-forming alga and a novel bacterium. Trebouxia alga was isolated from a lichen, Usnea hakonensis, and kept as a strain for 8 years. Although no visible bacterial colonies were observed in this culture, high-throughput sequencing of DNA isolated from the culture revealed that the strain is composed of a Trebouxia alga and an Alphaproteobacterium species. In situ hybridization showed that bacterial cells were localized on the surface of the algal cells. Physiological assays revealed that the bacterium was able to use ribitol, glucose and mannitol, all of which are known to exist abundantly in lichens. It was resistant to three antibiotics. Bacteria closely related to this species were also identified in lichen specimens, indicating that U. hakonensis may commonly associate with this group of bacteria. These features of the novel bacterium suggest that it may be involved in carbon cycling of U. hakonensis as a member of lichen symbiosis and less likely to have become associated with the alga after isolation from a lichen. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The occurrence and mobility of natural radioactive element as210Polonium (210Po) in 13 commercial algae consumed in Italy by humans were determined because the effects on human health need to take into account the bioavailability of these elements. The simulation of gastrointestinal (GIT) digestion was divided into three stages and was accomplished using three different artificial solutions: saliva, gastric, and synthetic bile-pancreas solution. The same sample was treated in two different ways: a) only gastric digestion and b) complete GIT digestion (gastric digestion followed by bile-pancreas solution). The difference between Po gastric mobility with respect to that found for GIT digestion was not significant; in fact, Po mobility exhibited a mean value 17.2 \xc2\xb1 15.1% and 19.5 \xc2\xb1 11.5% for gastric and GIT digestion, respectively. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'An RP-HPLC-PDA method for the simultaneous analysis of 9 compounds deriving from the phytohormones class was developed and optimized, namely indoleacetic acid (IAA), indolebutyric acid (IBA), phenyleacetic acid (PAA), naphtyleacetic acid (NAA), trans-zeatin (TZ), kinetin (KA), isopentenyladenine (IA), 6-benzylaminopurine (6-BA) and abscisic acid (ABA). Validation of the method was performed on the SFE-CO2extract made out of the mixture of Baltic algae. The regression coefficients for plant hormones were in the range from 0.997 to 0.999. The LOD and LOQ were on the levels from 0.05-0.29 and 0.15-0.88mg/L, respectively. Developed method was used for the separation and determination plant hormones in extracts obtained by SFE-CO2(supercritical fluid extraction) made out of the mixture of Baltic algae, Cladophora glomerata and Spirulina sp. In the extract of Baltic seaweed 2 of tested compounds were present in the concentration of 154,45\xc2\xb120,63\xce\xbcg/g for TZ and 362,47\xc2\xb113,00\xce\xbcg/g for PAA, whereas in Cladophora glomerata extract contained PAA and IAA in the concentration of 229,30\xc2\xb17,90\xce\xbcg/g and 23,91\xc2\xb10,80\xce\xbcg/g, respectively (all values per g of extract). The differences in the hormones levels may occur due to the different scale of extract preparation (laboratory or industrial) and other factors like the place of algae collection, year of collection or the way of biomass preparation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Using a multiwalled carbon nanotube (MWCNT) and graphene oxide (GO) as representative test materials, we evaluated the applicability of in vivo and in vitro chlorophyll-a (Chl-a) fluorescence quantification methods, which are used in standard algae ecotoxicity tests such as OECD 201 and ISO 8692. In vivo quantification of Chl-a from Raphidocelis subcapitata indicated a significant reduction in Chl-a fluorescence in the presence of MWCNTs due to shading, but a significant autofluorescence from GO caused an overestimation of Chl-a concentration. In vitro Chl-a quantification methods employing a modified acetone and an ethanol extraction protocol reduced the influence of shading and autofluorescence, but both resulted in a significant loss of fluorescence signal in the presence of 100\xe2\x80\x89mgL-1MWCNTs (99-100%) and GO (21-52%). Chl-a reduction was dose dependent for both tested carbon-based MNMs (CNMs), but effects were more pronounced for MWCNT, which caused a significant fluorescence reduction (16\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.3%) already at 1\xe2\x80\x89mgL-1. Further study of the CNM-algae-Chl-a interaction processes revealed that CNM can not only interact with live algae, but also efficiently adsorb extracted Chl-a. Our results showed that within 10\xe2\x80\x89min, 95-100% of Chl-a extracted from two algae concentrations were adsorbed to MWCNT, while 35-60% of Chl-a was adsorbed to the GO. This study shows that Chl-a quantification by fluorescence determination is not a suitable method for ecotoxicity testing of CNM. However, a quick screening test for individual MNMs is recommended to determine whether Chl-a adsorption is a significant process prior to selection of a quantification method. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Phosphatidylcholine (PtdCho) is a common and abundant phospholipid in most eukaryotic organisms. Although it has been known that the model green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii lacks PtdCho, we recently detected PtdCho in four Chlamydomonas species. Homology search of draft genomic sequences of the four PtdCho-containing algae suggested existence of phosphoethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PEAMT) in C.\xc2\xa0applanata and C.\xc2\xa0asymmetrica, which is the key enzyme in PtdCho biosynthesis in land plants. Here we analyzed the putative genes encoding PEAMT in C.\xc2\xa0applanata and C.\xc2\xa0asymmetrica, named CapPEAMT and CasPEAMT, respectively. In\xc2\xa0vitro assays with recombinant CapPEAMT and CasPEAMT indicated that they have the methylation activity for phosphoethanolamine, but not the methylation activity for phosphomonomethylethanolamine, in contrast with land plant PEAMTs, that possess the three successive methylation activities. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study presents the performance of graphene oxide (GO) as a coagulant in turbidity removal from naturally and artificially turbid raw surface water. GO is considered an excellent alternative to alum, the more common coagulant used in water treatment processes, to reduce the environmental release of aluminum. Effects of GO dosage, pH, and temperature on its coagulation ability were studied to determine the ideal turbidity removal conditions. The turbidity removal was \xe2\x89\xa595% for all levels of turbid raw surface water (20, 100, and 200 NTU) at optimum conditions. The role of alkalinity in inducing turbidity removal by GO coagulation was much more pronounced upon using raw surface water samples compared with that using artificially turbid deionized water samples. Moreover, GO demonstrated high-performance removal of biological contaminants such as algae, heterotrophic bacteria, and fecal coliform bacteria by 99.0%, 98.8% and 96.0%, respectively, at a dosage of 40\xc2\xa0mg/L. Concerning the possible environmental release of GO into the treated water following filtration process, there was no residual GO in a wide range of pH values. The outcomes of the study highlight the excellent coagulation performance of GO for the removal of turbidity and biological contaminants from raw surface water. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The atmospheric CO2level is limiting for growth of phototrophic organisms such as microalgae, so CO2enrichment boosts the growth and photosynthesis of microalgal cultures. Still, excessive CO2injection might inhibit photosynthesis of microalgae. We investigated the effect of continuous sparging of the cultures of Haematococcus pluvialis BM 1 (IPPAS H-2018) (Chlorophyceae), the richest natural source of the value-added pigment astaxanthin. H. pluvialis cultures with CO2-enriched air-gas mixtures (with CO2level from the atmospheric to 20%) on growth and astaxanthin accumulation in the microalga. Special attention was paid to photosynthetic activity and non-photochemical excited chlorophyll states quenching in the microalgal cells, which was monitored via chlorophyll fluorescence analysis. We also report on the capability of CO2capture by H. pluvialis derived from direct measurements of its elemental carbon content. The beneficial effect of the moderately high (5%) CO2levels on the culture growth and astaxanthin accumulation under stress results in a higher overall astaxanthin productivity. However, increase of the CO2level to 10% or 20% was deteriorative for growth, photosynthesis and carbon assimilation. The results support the possibility of combining a traditional two-stage H. pluvialis cultivation with CO2bio-capture although a dilution of the flue gas before its injection is required. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Mitochondrial F1FO-ATP synthase of the chlorophycean algae Polytomella sp. can be isolated as a highly stable dimeric complex of 1600kDa. It is composed of eight highly conserved orthodox subunits (\xce\xb1, \xce\xb2, \xce\xb3, \xce\xb4, \xce\xb5, OSCP, a, and c) and nine subunits (Asa1-9) that are exclusive of chlorophycean algae. The Asa subunits replace those that build up the peripheral stalk and the dimerization domains of the ATP synthase in other organisms. Little is known about the disposition of subunits Asa6, Asa8 and Asa9, that are predicted to have transmembrane stretches and that along with subunit a and a ring of c-subunits, seem to constitute the membrane-embedded Fo domain of the algal ATP synthase. Here, we over-expressed and purified the three Asa hydrophobic subunits and explored their interactions in vitro using a combination of immunochemical techniques, affinity chromatography, and an in vivo yeast-two hybrid assays. The results obtained suggest the following interactions Asa6-Asa6, Asa6-Asa8, Asa6-Asa9, Asa8-Asa8 and Asa8-Asa9. Cross-linking experiments carried out with the intact enzyme corroborated some of these interactions. Based on these results, we propose a model of the disposition of these hydrophobic subunits in the membrane-embedded sector of the algal ATP synthase. We also propose based on sequence analysis and hydrophobicity plots, that the algal subunit a is atypical in as much it lacks the first transmembrane stretch, exhibiting only four hydrophobic, tilted alpha helices. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Enrofloxacin (ENR), a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, has gained big scientific concern due to its ecotoxicity on aquatic microbiota. The ecotoxicity and removal of ENR by five individual microalgae species and their consortium were studied to correlate the behavior and interaction of ENR in natural systems. The individual microalgal species (Scenedesmus obliquus, Chlamydomonas mexicana, Chlorella vulgaris, Ourococcus multisporus, Micractinium resseri) and their consortium could withstand high doses of ENR (\xe2\x89\xa41\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1). Growth inhibition (68-81%) of the individual microalgae species and their consortium was observed in ENR (100\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1) compared to control after 11 days of cultivation. The calculated 96\xc2\xa0h EC50of ENR for individual microalgae species and microalgae consortium was 9.6-15.0\xc2\xa0mg ENR L-1. All the microalgae could recover from the toxicity of high concentrations of ENR during cultivation. The biochemical characteristics (total chlorophyll, carotenoid, and malondialdehyde) were significantly influenced by ENR (1-100\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1) stress. The individual microalgae species and microalgae consortium removed 18-26% ENR at day 11. Although the microalgae consortium showed a higher sensitivity (with lower EC50) toward ENR than the individual microalgae species, the removal efficiency of ENR by the constructed microalgae consortium was comparable to that of the most effective microalgal species. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this study, bicarbonate was proposed as an alternative carbon source to overcome exceedingly low CO2fixation efficiency of conventional microalgae cultivation system. 5gL-1of sodium bicarbonate was found to well support the growth of Dunaliella salina, showing 2.84-fold higher specific growth rate than a bicarbonate-free control. This bicarbonate-fed cultivation also could yield biomass productivity similar to that of CO2-based system as long as pH was controlled. While the supplied CO2, because of its being a gas, was mostly lost and only 3.59% of it was used for biomass synthesis, bicarbonate was effectively incorporated into the biomass with 91.40% of carbon utilization efficiency. This study showed that the bicarbonate-based microalgae cultivation is indeed possible, and can even become a truly environment-friendly and workable approach, provided that a CO2mineralization technology is concomitantly established. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Growth and fatty acid production of microalga Selenastrum sp. with associated bacteria was studied in lab-scale experiments in three composting leachate liquids. Nutrient reduction in cultures was measured at different initial substrate strengths. A small, pilot-scale photobioreactor (PBR) was used to verify lab-scale results. Similar growth conditions supported growth of both Selenastrum and bacteria. CO2feed enhanced the production of biomass and lipids in PBR (2.4gL-1and 17% DW) compared to lab-scale (0.1-1.6gL-1and 4.0-6.5% DW) experiments. Also prolonged cultivation time increased lipid content in PBR. At both scales, NH4-N with an initial concentration of ca. 40mgL-1was completely removed from the biowaste leachate. In lab-scale, maximal COD reduction was over 2000mgL-1, indicating mixotrophic growth of Selenastrum. Co-cultures are efficient in composting leachate liquid treatment, and conversion of waste to biomass is a promising approach to improve the bioeconomy of composting plants. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In aquatic environments, organisms are often exposed to mixtures of several pesticides. In this study, the effects of carbofuran and diuron and their mixtures on the microalgae Raphidocelis subcapitata were investigated. For this purpose, toxicity tests were performed with the single compounds (active ingredients and commercial formulations) and their combinations (only active ingredients). According to the results, the toxicity of active ingredients and their commercial formulations to R. subcapitata was similar. In the single exposures, both carbofuran and diuron inhibited significantly the R. subcapitata growth and caused physiological (chlorophyll a content) and morphological (complexity and cell size) changes in cells, as captured by flow cytometry single-cell properties. Regarding the mixture toxicity tests, data fitted to both reference models, concentration addition (CA) and independent action (IA), and evidenced significant deviations. After the CA fitting, dose-ratio dependent deviation had the best fit to the data, demonstrating synergism caused mainly by diuron and antagonism caused mainly by carbofuran. After fitting the IA model, a synergistic deviation represented the best fit for the diuron and carbofuran mixtures. In general, the two reference models indicated the occurrence of synergism in the mixtures of these compounds, especially when diuron was the dominant chemical in the combinations. The increased toxicity caused by the mixture of these pesticides could pose a greater environmental risk for phytoplankton. Thus, exposure to diuron and carbofuran mixtures must also be considered in risk assessments, since the combination of these compounds may result in more severe effects on algae population growth than single exposures. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The toxic effects of phenol on four marine microalgae (Dunaliella salina, Platymonas subcordiformis, Phaeodactylum tricornutum Bohlin, and Skeletonema costatum) were evaluated. The 96h EC50values were 72.29, 92.97, 27.32, and 27.32mgL-1, respectively, which were lower than those values of freshwater microalgae reported in the literature. During a 96-h exposure to a sub-lethal concentration of phenol (1/2 96h EC50) with green alga (D. salina) and diatom (S. costatum), reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, and chlorophyll a (Chl a) content decrease were simultaneously observed in diatom cells after 48h treatment. On the contrary, other chlorophylls in both algae were unaffected. Under transmission electron microscopy (TEM), the phenol-induced ultrastructure alterations included disappearance, or shrinkage, of nucleolus and enlargement of vacuoles, which may result in programmed cell death (PCD). The increase in number of lipid droplets may be related to phenol detoxification. These results indicate that the sensitivity of marine microalgae to phenol was dependent on some biotic factors such as cell size, ROS production, and phenol degradation ability in algal cells. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Algae-inhabiting marine fungi represent a taxonomically and ecologically interesting group of microorganisms still largely neglected, especially in temperate regions. The aim of this study was to isolate and to identify the culturable mycobiota associated with Flabellia petiolata, a green alga frequently retrieved in the Mediterranean basin. Twenty algal thalli were collected from two different sampling sites in the Mediterranean Sea (Elba Island, Italy). A polyphasic approach showed the presence of a relevant alga-associated mycobiota with 64 taxa identified. The fungal isolates belonged mainly to Ascomycota (61 taxa), while only three Basidiomycota were detected. The phylogenetic position of sterile mycelia and cryptic taxa, inferred on the basis of LSU partial region, highlighted the presence of putative new phylogenetic lineages within Dothideomycetes and Sordariomycetes. This work represents the first quali-quantitative analysis of the culturable mycobiota associated to a green alga in the Mediterranean Sea. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Symmetry/asymmetry conversion of eukaryotic flagellar waveform is caused by the changes in intracellular Ca2+. Animal sperm flagella show symmetric or asymmetric waveform at lower or higher concentration of intracellular Ca2+, respectively. In Chlamydomonas, high Ca2+induces conversion of flagellar waveform from asymmetric to symmetry, resulting in the backward movement. This mirror image relationship between animal sperm and Chlamydomonas could be explained by the distinct calcium sensors used to regulate the outer arm dyneins (Inaba 2015). Here we analyze the flagellar Ca2+-response of the prasinophyte Pterosperma cristatum, which shows backward movement by undulating four flagella, the appearance similar to animal sperm. The moving path of Pterosperma shows relatively straight in artificial seawater (ASW) or ASW in the presence of a Ca2+ionophore A23187, whereas it becomes circular in a low Ca2+solution. Analysis of flagellar waveform reveals symmetric or asymmetric waveform propagation in ASW or a low Ca2+solution, respectively. These patterns of flagellar responses are completely opposite to those in sperm flagella of the sea urchin Anthocidaris crassispina, supporting the idea previously proposed that the difference in flagellar response to Ca2+attributes to the evolutional innovation of calcium sensors of outer arm dynein in opisthokont or bikont lineage. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Climate change and biodiversity loss have been reported as major disturbances in the biosphere which can trigger changes in the structure and functioning of natural ecosystems. Nonetheless, empirical studies demonstrating how both factors interact to affect shifts in aquatic ecosystems are still unexplored. Here, we experimentally test how changes in rainfall distribution and litter diversity affect the occurrence of the algae-dominated condition in tank bromeliad ecosystems. Tank bromeliads are miniature aquatic ecosystems shaped by the rainwater and allochthonous detritus accumulated in the bases of their leaves. Here, we demonstrated that changes in the rainfall distribution were able to reduce the chlorophyll-a concentration in the water of bromeliad tanks affecting significantly the occurrence of algae-dominated conditions. On the other hand, litter diversity did not affect the algae dominance irrespective to the rainfall scenario. We suggest that rainfall changes may compromise important self-reinforcing mechanisms responsible for maintaining high levels of algae on tank bromeliads ecosystems. We summarized these results into a theoretical model which suggests that tank bromeliads may show two different regimes, determined by the bromeliad ability in taking up nutrients from the water and by the total amount of light entering the tank. We concluded that predicted climate changes might promote regime shifts in tropical aquatic ecosystems by shaping their structure and the relative importance of other regulating factors. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Algal model based multi-objective optimization using elitist non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm with inheritance was carried out for batch cultivation of Dunaliella tertiolecta using NPK-fertilizer. Optimization problems involving two- and three-objective functions were solved simultaneously. The objective functions are: maximization of algae-biomass and lipid productivity with minimization of cultivation time and cost. Time variant light intensity and temperature including NPK-fertilizer, NaCl and NaHCO3loadings are the important decision variables. Algal model involving Monod/Andrews adsorption kinetics and Droop model with internal nutrient cell quota was used for optimization studies. Sets of non-dominated (equally good) Pareto optimal solutions were obtained for the problems studied. It was observed that time variant optimal light intensity and temperature trajectories, including optimum NPK fertilizer, NaCl and NaHCO3concentration has significant influence to improve biomass and lipid productivity under minimum cultivation time and cost. Proposed optimization studies may be helpful to implement the control strategy in scale-up operation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Removal of toxic chemicals from environmental samples with low-cost methods and materials are very useful approach for especially large-scale applications. Green algae are highly abundant biomaterials which are employed as useful biosorbents in many studies. In the present study, an interesting type of green algae, Cladophora hutchinsiae (C. hutchinsiae) was used for removal of highly toxic chemical such as uranium. The pH, biosorbent concentration, contact time and temperature were optimized as 5.0, 12\xc2\xa0g/L, 60\xc2\xa0min and 20\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, respectively. For the equilibrium calculations, three well known isotherm models (Langmuir, Freundlich and Dubinin-Radushkevich) were employed. The maximum biosorption capacity of the biosorbent was calculated as about 152\xc2\xa0mg/g under the optimum batch conditions. The mean energy of biosorption was calculated as 8.39\xc2\xa0kJ/mol from the D-R biosorption isotherm. The thermodynamic and kinetic characteristics of biosorption were also investigated to explain the nature of the process. The kinetic data best fits the pseudo-second-order kinetic model with a regression coefficient of>0.99 for all studied temperatures. The calculated \xce\x94H\xc2\xb0 and \xce\x94G\xc2\xb0 values showed that the biosorption process is exothermic and spontaneous for temperatures between 293 and 333\xc2\xa0K. Furthermore, after seven cycling process, the sorption and desorption efficiencies of the biosorbent were found to be 70, and 58%, respectively meaning that the biosorbent had sufficiently high reusability performance as a clean-up tool. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The present study prompted the second attempts to evaluate biochemical responses of filamentous algae under different physico-chemical variables in various water bodies in Turkey. These variables were investigated by use of multivariate approach in the years of 2013 (May and November) and 2014 (May and October). Studied ecoregions had the different geographic position, climate, land-use, and anthropogenic activities, could strongly affect physico-chemical variables of water bodies, which caused to change or regulate in algal biomass composition due to the different response of filamentous species. Besides, biochemical responses of species changed at different sampling times and stations. Multivariate analyses indicated that temperature, heavy metals, and nutrient contents of aquatic systems were found to be major variables driving the spatial and temporal occurrence and biochemical contents of filamentous species. Total protein and pigment production by filamentous algae were high in water bodies having high nutrients, whereas they were low in high heavy metal contents. Amount of malondialdehyde (MDA), H2O2, total thiol group, total phenolic compounds, proline, total carbohydrate, and bioaccumulation of metals by filamentous algae were closely related with heavy metal contents of water bodies, indicated by the multivariate approach. Significant increase in aforementioned biochemical compounds with a distinct range of habitats and sensitive-tolerance to environmental conditions could make them highly valuable indicators. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Haematococcus pluvialis, as the most potential natural source of astaxanthin, which is a powerful antioxidant with high economic value, has attracted more and more scientific attention in recent years. An in-depth understanding of the mechanism for how H. pluvialis produces astaxanthin requires the intensive investigations on its genetic information. In particular, many reported studies were based on a variety of RNA analyses. However, it is difficult to extract RNA with high quality and quantity from H. pluvialis, because of the blockage from its thick cell wall and contamination by a large quantity of pigments, polysaccharides, and lipids. Therefore, we proposed an optimized Trizol-based RNA extraction method for H. pluvialis by investigating the effect of cell wall broken ways, algal strains, and cell growth status on total RNA isolation. Using this rapid, convenient, and cost-saving method, isolated H. pluvialis RNA had high quantity and quality (with an RNA integrity number of 7.0 and a concentration of 1604.1 ng/\xce\xbcL) equivalent to that isolated by commercial kit, enabling its applications into downstream RNA analyses. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Although pharmaceuticals and personal care products have been used and introduced into the environment in large quantities, little information on potential ecological risks is currently available considering their effects on living organisms. We verified the feasibility of using synchrotron-based Fourier Transform Infrared (SR-FTIR) spectromicroscopy to explore in\xc2\xa0vivo toxic effects on single living Chlorococcum sp. cells. The study provided important information to achieve a better understanding of the toxic mechanism of triclosan and carbamazepine on living algae Chlorococcum sp.. Triclosan and carbamazepine had distinctive toxic effects on unicellular living algae. Most strikingly, triclosan had more dramatic toxic effects on biochemical components than carbamazepine. Triclosan can affect algae primarily by inhibiting fatty acid synthesis and causing protein aggregation. The toxicity response was irreversible at higher concentration (100.000\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM), but attenuated at lower concentration (0.391\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) as time extended. Carbamazepine can produce hydrophobic interactions to affect the phospholipid bilayer and work on specific proteins to disfunction the cell membrane. Carbamazepine-exposed cells developed a resistance while extending exposure time. This is the first demonstration from an ecological standpoint that SR-FTIR can provide an innovative approach to reveal the toxicity of emerging pollutants in aquatic environments. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The newly purified extracellular polysaccharides (exopolysaccharides) from Parachlorella kessleri (PCEPS) were evaluated on their antitumor and immunomodulatory effects in cell culture and mouse colon carcinoma peritoneal dissemination model. In two-dimensional cell culture, the PCEPS treatment inhibited cell growth of both murine and human colon carcinoma cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In contrast, the growth of mouse splenocytes (SPLs) and bone marrow cells (BMCs) were stimulated by the treatment with PCEPS. The treatment with PCEPS also increased specific subpopulations of the cells in BMCs: antigen presenting cells (CD19+ B cells, 33D1+ dendritic cells and CD68+ macrophage) and CD8+ cytotoxic T cells. In three-dimensional spheroid culture, spheroid growth of CT26 cells co-cultured with HL-60 human neutrophilic promyeloblasts and Jurkat cells (human lymphoblasts), but not THP-1 human monocyte/macrophage was significantly attenuated by PCEPS treatment. In a mouse CT26 colon carcinoma peritoneal dissemination model, intraperitoneal injection of PCEPS (10 mg/kg, twice per week) significantly attenuated the growth of CT26 colon carcinoma in syngeneic mice. The present study suggests that PCEPS inhibits colon carcinoma growth via direct cell growth inhibition and a stimulation of the host antitumor immune responses. Taken together, the current study suggests that exopolysaccharides derived from Parachlorella kessleri contain significant bioactive materials that inhibit colon carcinoma growth. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Mutation is the ultimate source of genetic variation, and knowledge of mutation rates is fundamental for our understanding of all evolutionary processes. High throughput sequencing of mutation accumulation lines has provided genome wide spontaneous mutation rates in a dozen model species, but estimates from nonmodel organisms from much of the diversity of life are very limited. Here, we report mutation rates in four haploid marine bacterial-sized photosynthetic eukaryotic algae; Bathycoccus prasinos, Ostreococcus tauri, Ostreococcus mediterraneus, and Micromonas pusilla. The spontaneous mutation rate between species varies from \xce\xbc\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.4 \xc3\x97 10-10 to 9.8 \xc3\x97 10-10 mutations per nucleotide per generation. Within genomes, there is a two-fold increase of the mutation rate in intergenic regions, consistent with an optimization of mismatch and transcription-coupled DNA repair in coding sequences. Additionally, we show that deviation from the equilibrium GC content increases the mutation rate by \xe2\x88\xbc2% to \xe2\x88\xbc12% because of a GC bias in coding sequences. More generally, the difference between the observed and equilibrium GC content of genomes explains some of the inter-specific variation in mutation rates. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this study, a carbohydrate-rich microalga Neochloris aquatica CL-M1 was adapted to grow in swine wastewater. The effects of cultivation conditions (i.e., temperature, light intensity or N/P ratio) on COD/nutrients removal and carbohydrate-rich biomass production were investigated. The results indicate that the highest COD removal (81.7%) and NH3-N removal (96.2%) was achieved at 150\xc2\xb5molm-2s-1light intensity, 25\xc2\xb0C and N/P ratio=1.5/1. The highest biomass concentration and carbohydrate content was 6.10gL-1and 50.46%, respectively, when N/P ratio=5/1. The resulting carbohydrate-rich microalgal biomass was pretreated and used as a feedstock for butanol fermentation. With the initial sugar concentration of 48.7gL-1glucose and 3.4gL-1xylose in the pretreated biomass, the butanol concentration, yield, and productivity were 12.0gL-1, 0.60molmol-1sugar, and 0.89gL-1h-1, respectively, indicating the high potential of using Neochloris aquatica CL-M1 for butanol fermentation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Dunaliella tertiolecta, a halotolerant alga, can accumulate large amounts of neutral lipid, which makes it a potential biodiesel feedstock. In this study, neutral lipids of D.\xc2\xa0tertiolecta induced by different salinities or N or P starvation were analyzed by thin-layer chromatography (TLC), flow cytometry (FCM), and confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM). High salinities or N or P starvation resulted in a decrease in cell growth and chlorophyll contents of D.\xc2\xa0tertiolecta. Neutral lipid contents increased markedly after 3-7 days of N starvation or at low NaCl concentrations (0.5-2.0 M). N starvation had a more dramatic effect on the neutral lipid contents of D.\xc2\xa0tertiolecta than P starvation. Four putative ME isozymes in different conditions can be detected by using isozyme electrophoresis. Two alternative acetyl-CoA producers, ACL and ACS genes, were up-regulated under low salinities and N starvation. It was suggested that low salinities and N starvation are considered efficient ways to stimulate lipid accumulation in D.\xc2\xa0tertiolecta. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microalgae lipids are potential candidates for the production of renewable biodiesel. The combination of plant hormones and two-step cultivation regulates lipid production in microalgae. A strategy for promoting lipid accumulation in Monoraphidium sp. QLY-1 by combining exogenous melatonin (MT) and photoinduction was developed. The effects of melatonin on the lipid content, reactive oxygen species (ROS), and activities of three key fatty acid biosynthetic enzyme in Monoraphidium sp. QLY-1 were investigated. The lipid content increased by 1.32-fold under 1\xce\xbcM melatonin treatment. The maximum lipid content achieved was 49.6%. However, the protein and carbohydrate contents decreased rapidly from 57.21% to 47.96% and from 53.4% to 37.71%, respectively. Biochemical and physiological analyses suggested that the ROS and lipid biosynthesis-related enzyme activities correlated with increased lipid accumulation under photo-melatonin induction conditions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The unchecked production and use of fluoroquinolones (FQs) for the treatment of infections in human and livestock has increased in Pakistan, which resulted in large amount of antibiotics in water bodies. In the current study, the prevalence and associated ecological risk of three FQs were investigated in waste-water bodies and sludge samples of Kahuta and Hattar industrial zones. The average concentrations of ciprofloxacin (CIP), enrofloxacin (ENR) and levofloxacin (LEV) in the waste-water samples were slightly higher in Kahuta (i.e. 58, 32.9, and 36.7\xce\xbcgL-1respectively), than those in Hattar sites (i.e. 42.1, 41.2, and 48.9\xce\xbcgL-1respectively). However, the concentrations of CIP, ENR and LEV in the sludge samples were significantly higher (i.e. 159; 153 and 164\xce\xbcgkg-1respectively) in Hattar sites, compared to those in Kahuta sites (i.e. 129, 58 and 91\xce\xbcgkg-1respectively). The uses of FQs in the health sector resulted in water pollution and poses the ecological risk to aquatic organisms. The individual risk associated with CIP was highest in Kahuta industrial sites for green algae ranging (2900-9100) followed by M. aeruginosa (5800-18200), cyanobacteria (580-18204) and invertebrates (24.2-75.8). These values suggested that the prevalence of antibiotics in the waste-disposal sites could be potential risk for the aquatic ecosystem, and harmful to biodiversity. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'After use and disposal of chemical products, many types of polymer particles end up in the aquatic environment with potential toxic effects to primary producers like green algae. In this study, we have developed Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationships (QSARs) for a set of highly structural diverse polymers which are capable to estimate green algae growth inhibition (EC50). The model (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa043, R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.73, RMSE\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.28) is a regression-based decision tree using one structural descriptor for each of three polymer classes separated based on charge. The QSAR is applicable to linear homo polymers as well as copolymers and does not require information on the size of the polymer particle or underlying core material. Highly branched polymers, non-nitrogen cationic polymers and polymeric surfactants are not included in the model and thus cannot be evaluated. The model works best for cationic and non-ionic polymers for which cellular adsorption, disruption of the cell wall and photosynthesis inhibition were the mechanisms of action. For anionic polymers, specific properties of the polymer and test characteristics need to be known for detailed assessment. The data and QSAR results for anionic polymers, when combined with molecular dynamics simulations indicated that nutrient depletion is likely the dominant mode of toxicity. Nutrient depletion in turn, is determined by the non-linear interplay between polymer charge density and backbone flexibility. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In previous studies, naphthoquinone (NQ) compounds have been shown to be effective, selective, and ecologically safe algicides for controlling harmful algal blooming species (HABs) or winter bloom species, such as Stephanodiscus hantzschii. However, there are no reports on NQ-based algicides for use with cyanobacterial blooming species. In this study, we developed 31 NQ compounds to investigate algicides for mitigating cyanobacterial blooms. In addition, to better apply these compounds in the field, we reduced the number of production steps to develop a cost-effective algicide. In preliminary testing, we screened NQ compounds that showed the best algicidal activity on target cyanobacteria, including Aphanizomenon, Dolichospermum, Microcystis, Oscillatoria, and Nostoc species. The compound NQ 2-0 showed the highest algicidal activity (90%) at a low concentration (\xe2\x89\xa51\xce\xbcM) on target algae. These were very limiting algicidal effects of 1\xc2\xb5M NQ 2-0 observed against non-target algae, such as diatoms (Stephanodiscus hantzschii, Cyclotella meneghiniana, Synedra acus, and Aulacoseira granulata) or green algae (Cosmarium bioculatum and Scenedesmus quadricauda), and the effect did not exceed 15-25% (except against S. quadricauda). NQ 2-0 (1\xce\xbcM) showed no eco-toxicity, as represented by the survival rates of Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata (100%), Daphnia magna (100%), and Danio rerio (100%). Additionally, a chronic eco-toxicity assessment showed no toxicity toward the survival, growth or reproduction of D. magna. Moreover, NQ 2-0 quickly dissipated from field water samples and had a half-life of approximately 3.2 days. These results suggest that NQ 2-0 could be a selective and ecologically safe algicide to mitigate harmful cyanobacterial blooms. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Two competitive strategies, fed-batch and sequencing-batch cultivation, were compared in cost-effective biomass production of a high lipid microalgae, Micractinium inermum NLP-F014 using a blended wastewater medium. For fed-batch cultivations, additional nutrient was supplemented at day 2 (FB1) or consecutively added at day 2 and 4 (FB2). Through inoculum size test, 1.0g-DCWL-1was selected for the sequencing-batch cultivation (SB) where about 65% of culture was replaced with fresh medium every 2days. Both fed-batch cultivations showed the maximum biomass productivity of 0.95g-DCWL-1d-1, while average biomass productivity in SB was slightly higher as 0.96\xc2\xb10.08g-DCWL-1d-1. Furthermore, remained concentrations of organics (426mg-CODL-1), total nitrogen (15.4mg-NL-1) and phosphorus (0.6mg-PL-1) in SB were much lower than those of fed-batch conditions. The results suggested that SB could be a promising strategy to cultivate M. inermum NLP-F014 with the blended wastewater medium. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this work was to study the accumulation of phytoene in Dunaliella salina V-101 by down-regulating its phytoene desaturase (PDS) gene expression using RNA interference and Antisense technology. RNAi and antisense constructs were introduced into the Dunaliella cells by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Among thirty-two transformants, six showed positive down-regulation of PDS expression with RNAi construct and five positive transformants were obtained using antisense construct. Characterization of PDS suppression was carried out using semi-quantitative RT-PCR and quantitative determination of phytoene as well as other carotenoids by HPLC. Both the RNAi and antisense lines showed a significant decrease in the expression levels of phytoene desaturase and carotenoid content compared to wild type cells. The RNAi line #5 showed maximum Phytoene content (108.34\xc2\xb122.34\xc2\xb5g/100mg DCW) compared to other transgenic lines. These phytoene-accumulating phenotypes exhibited slower growth rates and were found to be sensitive to high light conditions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Dyes are recalcitrant compounds that resist conventional biological treatments. The degradation of three textile dyes (Indigo, RBBR and Sulphur Black), and the dye-containing liquid effluent and solid waste from the Municipal Treatment Station, Americana, S\xc3\xa3o Paulo, Brazil, by the cyanobacteria Anabaena flos-aquae UTCC64, Phormidium autumnale UTEX1580 and Synechococcus sp. PCC7942 was evaluated. The dye degradation efficiency of the cyanobacteria was compared with anaerobic and anaerobic-aerobic systems in terms of discolouration and toxicity evaluations. The discoloration was evaluated by absorption spectroscopy. Toxicity was measured using the organisms Hydra attenuata, the alga Selenastrum capricornutum and lettuce seeds. The three cyanobacteria showed the potential to remediate textile effluent by removing the colour and reducing the toxicity. However, the growth of cyanobacteria on sludge was slow and discoloration was not efficient. The cyanobacteria P. autumnale UTEX1580 was the only strain that completely degraded the indigo dye. An evaluation of the mutagenicity potential was performed by use of the micronucleus assay using Allium sp. No mutagenicity was observed after the treatment. Two metabolites were produced during the degradation, anthranilic acid and isatin, but toxicity did not increase after the treatment. The cyanobacteria showed the ability to degrade the dyes present in a textile effluent; therefore, they can be used in a tertiary treatment of effluents with recalcitrant compounds. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Stringent searches for microRNAs (miRNAs) have so far only identified these molecules in animals, land plants, chlorophyte green algae, slime molds and brown algae. The identification of miRNAs in brown algae was based on the analysis of a single species, the filamentous brown alga Ectocarpus sp. Here, we have used deep sequencing of small RNAs and a recently published genome sequence to identify miRNAs in a second brown alga, the kelp Saccharina japonica. S. japonica possesses a large number of miRNAs (117) and these miRNAs are highly diverse, falling into 98 different families. Surprisingly, none of the S. japonica miRNAs share significant sequence similarity with the Ectocarpus sp. miRNAs. However, the miRNA repertoires of the two species share a number of structural and genomic features indicating that they were generated by similar evolutionary processes and therefore probably evolved within the context of a common, ancestral miRNA system. This lack of sequence similarity suggests that miRNAs evolve rapidly in the brown algae (the two species are separated by \xe2\x88\xbc95 Myr of evolution). The sets of predicted targets of miRNAs in the two species were also very different suggesting that the divergence of the miRNAs may have had significant consequences for miRNA function. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Sulfate is a primary sulfur source and can be available in wastewaters. Nevertheless, effect of sulfate ions on growth and pollutants removal of microalgae seems to be less investigated. At the present study, self-flocculating microalga Chlorococcum sp. GD was grown in synthetic municipal wastewater with different sulfate concentrations. Results indicated that Chlorococcum sp. GD grew better in synthetic municipal wastewater with 18, 45, 77, 136 and 271mg/L SO42-than in wastewater without SO42-. Chlorococcum sp. GD had also excellent removal efficiencies of nitrogen and phosphorus and effectively flocculated in sulfate wastewater. Sulfate deprivation weakened the growth, pollutants removal and self-flocculation of Chlorococcum sp. GD in wastewater. Antioxidative enzymes activity significantly increased and photosynthetic activity significantly decreased when Chlorococcum sp. GD was cultivated in sulfate-free wastewater. Sulfate deprivation probably reduced cell activity of growth, pollutants removal and flocculation via inducing the over-accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Three cyclic C33botryococcenes and one new trimethylsqualene isomer were isolated from the B race, Showa (Berkeley) strain of Botryococcus braunii, which is known to produce large amounts of isoprenoid hydrocarbons ranging in carbon number from 30 to 34. Their purity was determined by GC-MS, and structures were characterized by 1D and 2D NMR. One of these molecules, cyclic C33-1 botryococcene (5), has an unusual connection of a methylenecyclohexane ring to the molecule backbone not seen before in botryococcenes. This report further adds to our knowledge of the wide range of isoprenoid hydrocarbon structures produced by B.\xc2\xa0braunii. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Viruses have recurrently been hypothesized as instrumental in driving microbial population diversity. Nonetheless, viral mediated co-existence of r/k-strategists, predicted in the Killing-the-Winner (KtW) hypothesis, remains controversial and demands empirical evidence. Therefore, we measured the life strategy parameters that characterize the relevant system Micromonas-Micromonas Virus (MicV). A large number of host and viral strains (37 and 17, respectively) were used in a total of 629 cross-infectivity tests. Algal and viral abundances were monitored by flow cytometry and used to calculate values of growth rate, resistance capacity, and viral production. Two main assumptions of the KtW model, namely (1) a resistance-associated cost on growth and (2) a negative correlation between resistance and viral production capacity, were mildly observed and lacked statistical significance. Micromonas strains infected by more MicV strains presented higher lysis and viral production rates as the number of infectious virus strains increased, suggesting a 'one-gate' regulation of infection in this system. MicV strains demonstrated a vast range of virion production capacity, which unexpectedly grew with increasing host-range. Overall, the significant trends observed in here demonstrate strong co-interactions at different levels between Micromonas and MicV populations, however, the role of viruses as major driving force in phytoplankton fitness wasn't explicitly observed. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Soybean-derived isoflavones have been investigated for their preventative effects against UV-induced symptoms of skin damage including wrinkle formation and inflammation. Haematococcus pluvialis is a freshwater species of Chlorophyta that contains high concentrations of the natural carotenoid pigment astaxanthin. Astaxanthin is known to be involved in retinoic acid receptor (RAR) signaling and previously been associated with the inhibition of activator protein (AP)-1 dependent transcription. Based on previous studies, we hypothesized that a combination of soy extract (SE) and Haematococcus extract (HE) may prevent UVB-induced photoaging through specific signaling pathways, as measured by UVB-induced wrinkling on hairless mice skin and expression changes in human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs). The 1:2 ratio of SE and HE mixture (SHM) showed the optimal benefit in vivo. SHM was found to inhibit wrinkle formation via the downregulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 mRNA and protein expression. SHM also inhibited mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) phosphorylation and the transactivation of AP-1 which plays an important role in regulating MMP expression. These results highlight the potential for SHM to be developed as a therapeutic agent to prevent UVB-induced skin wrinkling. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Fast Repetition and Relaxation chlorophyll fluorescence induction is used to estimate the effective absorption cross section of PSII (\xcf\x83PSII), to analyze phytoplankton acclimation and electron transport. The fitting coefficient \xcf\x81 measures excitation transfer from closed PSII to remaining open PSII upon illumination, which could theoretically generate a progressive increase in \xcf\x83PSIIfor the remaining open PSII. To investigate how \xcf\x81 responds to illumination we grew marine phytoplankters with diverse antenna structures (Prochlorococcus, Synechococcus, Ostreococcus and Thalassiosira pseudonana) under limiting or saturating growth light. Initial \xcf\x81 varied with growth light in Synechococcus and Thalassiosira. With increasing actinic illumination PSII closed progressively and \xcf\x81 decreased for all four taxa, in a pattern explicable as an exponential decay of \xcf\x81 with increasing distance between remaining open PSII reaction centers. This light-dependent down-regulation of \xcf\x81 allows the four phytoplankters to limit the effect of increasing light upon \xcf\x83PSII. The four structurally distinct taxa showed, however, distinct rates of response of \xcf\x81 to PSII closure, likely reflecting differences in the spacing or orientation among their PSII centers. Following saturating illumination recovery of \xcf\x81 in darkness coincided directly with PSII re-opening in Prochlorococcus. Even after PSII had re-opened in Synechococcus a transition to State II slowed dark recovery of \xcf\x81. In Ostreococcus sustained NPQ slowed dark recovery of \xcf\x81. In Thalassiosira dark recovery of \xcf\x81 was slowed, possibly by a light-induced change in PSII spacing. These patterns of \xcf\x81 versus PSII closure are thus a convenient probe of comparative PSII spacings. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this work was to study Golenkinia sp. and microbial fuel cells (MFCs) for the treatment of anaerobically digested effluent from kitchen waste (ADE-KW) with different dilution factors. A dual-chamber MFC was fabricated for treating ADE-KW in the two chambers of the MFC and harvesting Golenkinia sp. All the anodic TN was removed more than 80%. COD removal efficiency increased from 48.2% to 76% when the dilution factor increased from 1 to 4. Maximum COD and TN removal rates were 3.56 and 3.71mg\xc2\xb7L-1\xc2\xb7h-1when ADE-KW was treated without dilution in the anodic chamber. All the cathodic TN and TP removal efficiencies were approximately 90%. The highest open circuit voltage (OCV) and power density were approximately 400mV and 400mW when ADE-KW was treated directly (undiluted) in the MFC, with the highest biomass and total lipid content production of Golenkinia sp. in the cathodic chamber. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Plant species have an important role in eco-ditches; however, the Michaelis-Menten kinetic parameters of nutrient uptake, growth rate and purification efficiency of ditch plants and their influences on domestic sewage treatment efficiency are still unclear. Growth rates of all nine species, but especially Lemna gibba, Cladophora and Myriophyllum verticillatum were best in undiluted domestic sewage as opposed to a mixture of domestic sewage. Performance of species to accumulate nutrients was not only species-specific, but was also affected by both sewage treatments. Removal efficiency of nutrients was dependent on both plant species and treatment. Uptake kinetic parameters were significantly affected by both nutrient form and plant species. The maximum uptake rate (Vmax) of NH4-N was higher than NO3-N. Similarly, Km values for NH4-N were greater than NO3-N. These results could be used to identify plants for sewage treatment efficiency and enhance water quality in eco-ditch treatment systems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'To elucidate the mechanism underlying the enhanced growth rate in the Haematococcus pluvialis mutated with60Co-\xce\xb3 rays and domesticated with 15% CO2, transcriptome sequencing was conducted to clarify the carbon metabolic pathways of mutant cells. The CO2fixation rate of mutant cells increased to 2.57gL-1d-1under 15% CO2due to the enhanced photosynthesis, carbon fixation, glycolysis pathways. The upregulation of PetH, ATPF0A and PetJ related to photosynthetic electron transport, ATP synthase and NADPH generation promoted the photosynthesis. The upregulation of genes related to Calvin cycle and ppdK promoted carbon fixation in both C3 and C4 photosynthetic pathways. The reallocation of carbon was also enhanced under 15% CO2. The 19-, 14- and 3.5-fold upregulation of FBA, TPI and PK genes, respectively, remarkably promoted the glycolysis pathways. This accelerated the conversion of photosynthetic carbon to pyruvate, which was an essential precursor for astaxanthin and lipids biosynthesis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'An innovative staged cultivation (SC) method was proposed to overcome the limiting factors associated with the growth of Haematococcus pluvialis in the green growth phase. This strategy led to a 1.16-fold increase in biomass concentration. Light wavelength, nutrient concentration and extracellular metabolite were identified to be key limiting factors when cells of H. pluvialis were in the low, medium, and high cell density sub-phase, respectively. A mix of red and white light (2:1) was demonstrated for the first time to accelerate cell growth in the low cell density sub-phase. Shortage of nutrients during the medium density sub-phase was overcome with a fed-batch approach maintained at stable pH, while the inhibitory effect of extracellular metabolites during the high density sub-phase was overcome with replacement cultivation. The findings of the present study suggest SC in the green growth phase may be a promising approach to significantly enhance biomass accumulation in culturing microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The main aim of study was to develop the environmental quality standards (EQSMP) for selected heavy metals: Pb, Cd, Hg and Ni bioaccumulated in the tissues of marine macrophytobenthic plants: Chara baltica, Cladophora spp., Coccotylus truncatus, Furcellaria lumbricalis, Polysiphonia fucoides, Stuckenia pectinata and Zanichellia palustris, collected in designated areas of the southern Baltic Sea in period 2008-2015. The calculated concentration ratios (CR), which attained very high values: 104Lkg-1for lead, 103Lkg-1for nickel and mercury and even 105Lkg-1for cadmium formed the basis for the determination of EQSMPvalues. The EQSMPvalues were: 26mgkg-1d.w. for Pb, 33mgkg-1d.w. for Cd, 32mgkg-1d.w. for Ni and 0.4mgkg-1d.w. for Hg. The application of macrophytobenthic plants as bioindicators in marine environment status assessment of certain areas of the Baltic Sea is also described in the paper. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Viruses are important evolutionary drivers of host ecology and evolution. The marine picoplanktonOstreococcus taurihas three known resistance types that arise in response to infection with the Phycodnavirus OtV5: susceptible cells (S) that lyse following viral entry and replication; resistant cells (R) that are refractory to viral entry; and resistant producers (RP) that do not all lyse but maintain some viruses within the population. To test for evolutionary costs of maintaining antiviral resistance, we examined whetherO. tauripopulations composed of each resistance type differed in their evolutionary responses to several environmental drivers (lower light, lower salt, lower phosphate and a changing environment) in the absence of viruses for approximately 200 generations. We did not detect a cost of resistance as measured by life-history traits (population growth rate, cell size and cell chlorophyll content) and competitive ability. Specifically, all R and RP populations remained resistant to OtV5 lysis for the entire 200-generation experiment, whereas lysis occurred in all S populations, suggesting that resistance is not costly to maintain even when direct selection for resistance was removed, or that there could be a genetic constraint preventing return to a susceptible resistance type. Following evolution, all S population densities dropped when inoculated with OtV5, but not to zero, indicating that lysis was incomplete, and that some cells may have gained a resistance mutation over the evolution experiment. These findings suggest that maintaining resistance in the absence of viruses was not costly. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Biofuel production from genetically-engineered microalgae is currently among the most widely studied strategies in generating renewable energy. However, microalgae currently suffer from low oil yields which limit the commercial feasibility of industrial-scale production. A major bottleneck in cost-efficient biofuel production from microalgae is the dilemma between biomass productivity and lipid accumulation. When grown under stressful culture conditions such as nitrogen depletion, microalgae accumulate large amounts of neutral lipids, but it comes at the expense of growth which negatively impacts overall lipid productivity. Overexpression of acyl-ACP thioesterases (TE) had been successful in increasing the production of fatty acids (FA) in prokaryotes such as E. coli and cyanobacteria, but has not been effectively tested in microalgae. In this study, we introduced a TE from D. tertiolecta (DtTE) into C. reinhardtii to investigate its effects on FA production without compromising growth. The results indicate that C. reinhardtii transformants were able to produce 63 and 94% more neutral lipids than the wild-type, which translates to an approximately 56% improvement in total lipids, without compromising growth. These findings demonstrate the cross-species functionality of TE, and provide a platform for further studies into using TE as a strategy to increase biofuel production from microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Micromonas is a unicellular marine green alga that thrives from tropical to polar ecosystems. We investigated the growth and cellular characteristics of acclimated mid-exponential phase Micromonas commoda RCC299 over multiple light levels and over the diel cycle (14:10 hour light:dark). We also exposed the light:dark acclimated M. commoda to experimental shifts from moderate to high light (HL), and to HL plus ultraviolet radiation (HL+UV), 4.5 hours into the light period. Cellular responses of this prasinophyte were quantified by flow cytometry and changes in gene expression by qPCR and RNA-seq. While proxies for chlorophyll a content and cell size exhibited similar diel variations in HL and controls, with progressive increases during day and decreases at night, both parameters sharply decreased after the HL+UV shift. Two distinct transcriptional responses were observed among chloroplast genes in the light shift experiments: i) expression of transcription and translation-related genes decreased over the time course, and this transition occurred earlier in treatments than controls; ii) expression of several photosystem I and II genes increased in HL relative to controls, as did the growth rate within the same diel period. However, expression of these genes decreased in HL+UV, likely as a photoprotective mechanism. RNA-seq also revealed two genes in the chloroplast genome, ycf2-like and ycf1-like, that had not previously been reported. The latter encodes the second largest chloroplast protein in Micromonas and has weak homology to plant Ycf1, an essential component of the plant protein translocon. Analysis of several nuclear genes showed that the expression of LHCSR2, which is involved in non-photochemical quenching, and five light-harvesting-like genes, increased 30 to>50-fold in HL+UV, but was largely unchanged in HL and controls. Under HL alone, a gene encoding a novel nitrite reductase fusion protein (NIRFU) increased, possibly reflecting enhanced N-assimilation under the 625 \xce\xbcmol photons m-2 s-1 supplied in the HL treatment. NIRFU's domain structure suggests it may have more efficient electron transfer than plant NIR proteins. Our analyses indicate that Micromonas can readily respond to abrupt environmental changes, such that strong photoinhibition was provoked by combined exposure to HL and UV, but a ca. 6-fold increase in light was stimulatory. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Malvan coast is one of the Marine Protected Area (MPA) of Maharashtra because of its rich coral reef and biodiversity. The study investigated on phytoplankton assemblage and their diversity with respect to physico-chemical parameters covering protected and unprotected area of Malvan coast. Physico-chemical parameters such as salinity, nitrite, nitrate, and ammonia did not display seasonality due to inadequate fresh water influx and allochthonous nutrient input. Positive correlation of phosphate (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.96, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0001) and silicate (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.91, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0001) with Total Suspended Solids (TSS) confirmed their autochthonous origin as a result of resuspension of bottom sediments during monsoon. A total of 57 phytoplankton species were identified mostly dominated by Bascillariophyceae (40 species), followed by Dinophyceae (9 species), Chlorophyceae (5 species), Cyanophyceae (2 species), and Dictyochophyceae (1 species) from Malvan coast. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed that water temperature and TSS were the most significant parameters influencing the distribution and seasonal shift in phytoplankton species such as Skeletonema costatum and Chaetoceros sp. during pre-monsoon and Psedo-nitzschia sp., Streptotheca thamensis, Eucampia zodiacus, and Lithodesmium undulatum during post-monsoon. Silicate and phosphate had minor influence on phytoplankton distribution. Shannon-Wiener diversity index as a pollution index suggested that the study area was incipiently polluted except at bay stations. Despite of various human interventions the water quality and phytoplankton assemblage of this area has not reached to an alarming situation. The current study provides a valuable baseline data on phytoplankton assemblage from Malvan coast. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The diversity and composition of photosynthetic picoeukaryotes (PPEs) in two large shallow lakes in China (Lake Taihu and Lake Chaohu) were investigated from flow cytometry sorted samples using Miseq high-throughput sequencing. We collected 65 samples covering different regions of the two lakes over four seasons to unveil spatial and temporal patterns of PPEs community composition. The use of flow cytometry sorting largely improved the efficiency of detecting PPEs sequences and over 70% of the retrieved reads belonged to PPEs. Chlorophyta and Bacillariophyta dominated PPEs in most of the samples. A distinct but complex seasonality of PPEs composition emerged at the OTUs level. NGS-based Miseq sequencing facilitates an in-depth view of numerous rare OTUs. Nearly 80% of the PPEs OTUs were rare and lots of them were detected only in one season, whereas most of the abundant OTUs were frequently detected in all seasons but only changed in relative abundances. Besides, a close relative of the marine PPEs species Ostreococcus sp. (OTU_1144, 99% identity) was discovered in freshwater systems for the first time and was abundant especially in winter. The diversity and community composition of PPEs were more dependent on season rather than sampling sites. Temperature, phycocyanin and NO3\xef\xa3\xbfN concentrations in Lake Taihu explained the PPE composition variations, whereas in Lake Chaohu TN/TP ratios, temperature, pH and nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) seemed to be the most important factors. In addition, a great number of OTUs belong to nonpigmented picoeukaryotes, especially Chytridiomycota, Perkinsozoa, Ciliophora and Cercozoa, which are known to include algae parasites as well as predators. The results of mantel test also showed that the community of photosynthetic and nonpigmented picoeukaryotes were significantly correlated in both lakes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Microalgal triglyceride (TAG) synthesis has attracted considerable attention. Particular emphasis has been put towards characterizing the algal homologs of the canonical rate-limiting enzymes, diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) and phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (PDAT). Less work has been done to analyze homologs from a phylogenetic perspective. In this work, we used HMMER iterative profiling and phylogenetic and functional analyses to determine the number and sequence characteristics of algal DGAT and PDAT, as well as related sequences that constitute their corresponding superfamilies. We included most algae with available genomes, as well as representative eukaryotic and prokaryotic species.RESULTS: Amongst our main findings, we identified a novel clade of DGAT1-like proteins exclusive to red algae and glaucophyta and a previously uncharacterized subclade of DGAT2 proteins with an unusual number of transmembrane segments. Our analysis also revealed the existence of a novel DGAT exclusive to green algae with moderate similarity to plant soluble DGAT3. The DGAT3 clade shares a most recent ancestor with a group of uncharacterized proteins from cyanobacteria. Subcellular targeting prediction suggests that most green algal DGAT3 proteins are imported to the chloroplast, evidencing that the green algal chloroplast might have a soluble pathway for the de novo synthesis of TAGs. Heterologous expression of C. reinhardtii DGAT3 produces an increase in the accumulation of TAG, as evidenced by thin layer chromatography.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis contributes to advance in the knowledge of complex superfamilies involved in lipid metabolism and provides clues to possible enzymatic players of chloroplast TAG synthesis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The presence of pharmaceuticals in the aquatic environment is a contemporary reality and it is necessary to understand more about the effects of this presence on organisms. The purpose of this work was to assess the ecotoxicity of antibiotics metronidazole, nitrofurantoin, trimethoprim, and sulphamethoxazole (single and mixture) in Vibrio fischeri and Desmodesmus subspicatus at \xce\xbcg\xe2\x80\x89L-1concentrations. The evaluation of the toxic effect of the antibiotics on V. fischeri and D. subspicatus was based on fluorescence and bioluminescence tests, respectively, using nominal concentrations. When tested individually, the four antibiotics gave rise to a toxic effect on the evaluated organisms. Sulphamethoxazole caused a higher toxic effect on V. fischeri and D. subspicatus from 7.81 to 500\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg\xe2\x80\x89L-1. Trimethoprim and sulphamethoxazole showed hormesis for the concentrations, which ranged from 7.81 to 62.5\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg\xe2\x80\x89L-1. The mixture of antibiotics induced a toxic effect on the V. fischeri and D. subspicatus organisms (from 0.03 to 1\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg\xe2\x80\x89L-1concentrations) than when the antibiotics were evaluated individually. These results were significant since water quality problems are widespread all over the word, and emerging pollutants such as antibiotics have been detected in the aquatic environment in very low concentrations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Prasinophytes occur in all oceans but rarely dominate phytoplankton populations. In contrast, a single ecotype of the prasinophyte Micromonas is frequently the most abundant photosynthetic taxon reported in the Arctic from summer through autumn. However, seasonal dynamics of prasinophytes outside of this period are little known. To address this, we analyzed high-throughput V4 18S rRNA amplicon data collected from November to July in the Amundsen Gulf Region, Beaufort Sea, Arctic. Surprisingly during polar sunset in November and December, we found a high proportion of reads from both DNA and RNA belonging to another prasinophyte, Bathycoccus. We then analyzed a metagenome from a December sample and the resulting Bathycoccus metagenome assembled genome (MAG) covered ~90% of the Bathycoccus Ban7 reference genome. In contrast, only ~20% of a reference Micromonas genome was found in the metagenome. Our phylogenetic analysis of marker genes placed the Arctic Bathycoccus in the B1 coastal clade. In addition, substitution rates of 129 coding DNA sequences were ~1.6% divergent between the Arctic MAG and coastal Chilean upwelling MAGs and 17.3% between it and a South East Atlantic open ocean MAG in the B2 Clade. The metagenomic analysis also revealed a winter viral community highly skewed toward viruses targeting Micromonas, with a much lower diversity of viruses targeting Bathycoccus. Overall a combination of Micromonas being relatively less able to maintain activity under dark winter conditions and viral suppression of Micromonas may have contributed to the success of Bathycoccus in the Amundsen Gulf during winter. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The symbiotic unicellular chlorophyte Desmodesmus sp. IPPAS-2014 capable of growth at extremely high CO2 levels prohibitive for most other microalgae is an interesting model for studies of CO2 tolerance mechanisms and a promising organism for CO2 biocapture. We studied the initial (0-60\xc2\xa0min) phase of acclimation of this microalga to an abrupt decrease in pH of the medium sparged with air/20% CO2 mixture. Acclimation of the culture to these conditions was accompanied by a sharp decrease in photochemical activity of the chloroplast followed by its recovery with a characteristic time of 10-50\xc2\xa0min. We hypothesize that acidification of the cultivation medium by dissolving CO2 plays a key role in the observed decrease in the photochemical activity. The possible role of photosynthetic apparatus tolerance to abrupt acidification in overall high tolerance of symbiotic microalgae to extremely high CO2 levels is discussed. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'\xce\xb2-carotenoid hydroxylase (CHYB) is an important rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of plant carotenoid. In this study, chyb1 and chyb2, two gene families in Dunaliella viridis were obtained by RNA-seq. The fragment of promoters of CHYB family genes, 1 080 bp for chyb1 (GenBank No. KY012338) and 1 155 bp for chyb2 (GenBank No. KY012339) were cloned by the Genome Walking Technology, respectively. Cis-acting elements of two promoters were analyzed by Plantcare soft. The results show that the chyb1 gene promoter contains more cis-acting elements in responses to abiotic stresses, such as methyl jasmonate, arachidonic acid, acetylsalicylic acid, and so on. On the other hand, the chyb2 promoter contains more cis-acting elements in response to light stress. qRT-PCR results show that the mRNA expression levels of CHYBs are modulated by their promoters, and different CHYB gene families response to distinct stresses. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The picoalgaOstreococcus tauriis a minimal photosynthetic eukaryote that has been used as a model system.O. tauriis known to efficiently produce docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). We provide a comprehensive study of the glycerolipidome ofO. tauriand validate this species as model for related picoeukaryotes.O. taurilipids displayed unique features that combined traits from the green and the chromalveolate lineages. The betaine lipid diacylglyceryl-hydroxymethyl-trimethyl-\xce\xb2-alanine and phosphatidyldimethylpropanethiol, both hallmarks of chromalveolates, were identified as presumed extraplastidial lipids. DHA was confined to these lipids, while plastidial lipids of prokaryotic type were characterized by the overwhelming presence of \xcf\x89-3 C18 polyunsaturated fatty acids (FAs), 18:5 being restricted to galactolipids. C16:4, an FA typical of green microalgae galactolipids, also was a major component ofO. tauriextraplastidial lipids, while the 16:4-coenzyme A (CoA) species was not detected. Triacylglycerols (TAGs) displayed the complete panel of FAs, and many species exhibited combinations of FAs diagnostic for plastidial and extraplastidial lipids. Importantly, under nutrient deprivation, 16:4 and \xcf\x89-3 C18 polyunsaturated FAs accumulated into de novo synthesized TAGs while DHA-TAG species remained rather stable, indicating an increased contribution of FAs of plastidial origin to TAG synthesis. Nutrient deprivation further severely down-regulated the conversion of 18:3 to 18:4, resulting in obvious inversion of the 18:3/18:4 ratio in plastidial lipids, TAGs, as well as acyl-CoAs. The fine-tuned and dynamic regulation of the 18:3/18:4 ratio suggested an important physiological role of these FAs in photosynthetic membranes. Acyl position in structural and storage lipids together with acyl-CoA analysis further help to determine mechanisms possibly involved in glycerolipid synthesis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Starch branching enzyme is a highly conserved protein from plants to algae. This enzyme participates in starch granule assembly by the addition of \xce\xb1-1,6-glucan branches to the \xce\xb1-1,4-polyglucans. This modification determines the structure of amylopectin thus arranging the final composition of the starch granule. Herein, we describe the function of the Ot01g03030 gene from the picoalgae Ostreococcus tauri. Although in silico analysis suggested that this gene codes for a starch debranching enzyme, our biochemical studies support that this gene encodes a branching enzyme (BE). The resulting 1058 amino acids protein has two in tandem carbohydrate binding domains (CBMs, from the CBM41 and CBM48 families) at the N-terminal (residues 64-403) followed by the C-terminal catalytic domain (residues 426-1058). Analysis of the BE truncated isoforms show that the CBMs bind differentially to whole starch, amylose or amylopectin. Furthermore, both CBMs seem to be essential for BE activity, as no catalytic activity was detected in the truncated enzyme comprising only by the catalytic domain. Our results suggest that the Ot01g03030 gene codifies for a functional BE containing two CBMs from CBM41 and CBM48 families which are critical for enzyme function and regulation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Bacteria and microalgae often coexist during the recycling of microalgal bioresources in wastewater treatment processes. Although the bacteria may compete with the microalgae for nutrients, they could also facilitate microalgal harvesting by forming algal-bacterial aggregates. However, very little is known about interspecies interactions between bacteria and microalgae. In this study, we investigated the responses of a model microalga, Chlorophyta sp., to the typical quorum sensing (QS) molecules N-acylhomoserine lactones (AHLs) extracted from activated sludge bacteria. Chlorophyta sp. self-aggregated in 200 \xce\xbcm bioflocs by secreting 460-1000 kDa aromatic proteins upon interacting with AHLs, and the settling efficiency of Chlorophyta sp. reached as high as 41%. However, Chlorophyta sp. cells were essentially in a free suspension in the absence of AHLs. Fluorescence intensity of the aromatic proteins had significant (P<0.05) relationship with the Chlorophyta sp. settleability, and showed a positive correlation, indicating that aromatic proteins helped aggregate microalga. Transcriptome results further revealed up-regulation of synthesis pathways for aromatic proteins from tyrosine and phenylalanine that was assisted by anthranilate accumulation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to confirm that eukaryotic microorganisms can sense and respond to prokaryotic QS molecules. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: RNA-Seq technology has received a lot of attention in recent years for microalgal global transcriptomic profiling. It is widely used in transcriptome-wide analysis of gene expression., particularly for microalgal strains with potential as biofuel sources. However, insufficient genomic or transcriptomic information of non-model microalgae has limited the understanding of their regulatory mechanisms and hampered genetic manipulation to enhance biofuel production. As such, an optimal microalgal transcriptomic database construction is a subject of urgent investigation.RESULTS: Dunaliella tertiolecta, a non-model oleaginous microalgal species, was sequenced via Illumina MISEQ and HISEQ 4000 in RNA-Seq studies. The high quality high-throughout sequencing data were explored using high performance computing (HPC) in a petascale data center and subjected to de novo assembly and parallelized mpiBLASTX search with multiple species. As a result, a transcriptome database of 17,845 was constructed (~95% completeness). This enlarged database constructed fueled the RNA-Seq data analysis, which was validated by a nitrogen deprivation (ND) study that induces triacylglycerol (TAG) production.CONCLUSIONS: The new paralleled assembly and annotation method under HPC presented here allows the solution of large-scale data processing problems in acceptable computation time. There is significant increase in the number of transcriptomic data achieved and observable heterogeneity in the performance to identify differentially expressed genes in the ND treatment paradigm. The results provide new insights as to how response to ND treatment in microalgae is regulated. ND analyses highlight the advantages of this database generated in this study that could also serve as a useful resource for future gene manipulation and transcriptome-wide analysis. We thus demonstrate the usefulness of exploring the transcriptome as an informative platform for functional studies and genetic manipulations in similar species. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Bioethanol is a potential alternative fuel to fossil fuels. Bioethanol as a fuel has several economic and environmental benefits. Though bioethanol is produced using starch and sugarcane juice, these materials are in conflict with food availability. To avoid food-fuel conflict, the second-generation bioethanol production by utilizing nonfood lignocellulosic materials has been extensively investigated. However, due to the complexity of lignocellulose architecture, the process is complicated and not economically competitive. The cultivation of lignocellulosic energy crops indirectly affects the food supplies by extensive land use. Marine algae have attracted attention to replace the lignocellulosic feedstock for bioethanol production, since the algae grow fast, do not use land, avoid food-fuel conflict and have several varieties to suit the cultivation environment. The composition of algae is not as complex as lignocellulose due to the absence of lignin, which renders easy hydrolysis of polysaccharides to fermentable sugars. Marine organisms also produce cold-active enzymes for hydrolysis of starch, cellulose, and algal polysaccharides, which can be employed in bioethanol process. Marine microoorganisms are also capable of fermenting sugars under high salt environment. Therefore, marine biocatalysts are promising for development of efficient processes for bioethanol production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Diversity is the hallmark of all life forms that inhabit the soil, air, water, and land. All these habitats pose their unique inherent challenges so as to breed the "fittest" creatures. Similarly, the biodiversity from the marine ecosystem has evolved unique properties due to challenging environment. These challenges include permafrost regions to hydrothermal vents, oceanic trenches to abyssal plains, fluctuating saline conditions, pH, temperature, light, atmospheric pressure, and the availability of nutrients. Oceans occupy 75% of the earth\'s surface and harbor most ancient and diverse forms of organisms (algae, bacteria, fungi, sponges, etc.), serving as an excellent source of natural bioactive molecules, novel therapeutic compounds, and enzymes. In this chapter, we introduce enzyme technology, its current state of the art, unique enzyme properties, and the biocatalytic potential of marine algal, bacterial, fungal, and sponge enzymes that have indeed boosted the Marine Biotechnology Industry. Researchers began exploring marine enzymes, and today they are preferred over the chemical catalysts for biotechnological applications and functions, encompassing various sectors, namely, domestic, industrial, commercial, and healthcare. Next, we summarize the plausible pros and cons: the challenges encountered in the process of discovery of the potent compounds and bioactive metabolites such as biocatalysts/enzymes of biomedical, therapeutic, biotechnological, and industrial significance. The field of Marine Enzyme Technology has recently assumed importance, and if it receives further boost, it could successfully substitute other chemical sources of enzymes useful for industrial and commercial purposes and may prove as a beneficial and ecofriendly option. With appropriate directions and encouragement, marine enzyme technology can sustain the rising demand for enzyme production while maintaining the ecological balance, provided any undesired exploitation of the marine ecosystem is avoided. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The replenishment of adiponectin-an adipocyte-derived hormone with salutary health effects-has recently been proposed as a new approach to treat hypertension, also ameliorate cardiovascular and metabolic risks. We conducted a prospective placebo-controlled, non-randomized and investigator-blinded dietary intervention study to evaluate the health effects of dietary intake of Sujiaonori (Ulva/Enteromorpha prolifera M\xc3\xbcller) algal biomaterial (SBM), especially on adiponectin production, blood pressure (BP), and body mass index (BMI) in human subjects. Participants (N= 32) were divided into two equally sized groups (n= 16 for each group): SBM group (subjects supplemented with 3 g SBM powder twice a day during meal) and the control group (subjects who took 3 g of a supplement made of 70% corn starch powder and 30% spinach twice a day) for four weeks. Two health survey questionnaires (dietary and current health questionnaires) were completed anonymously, saliva sampling was done for adiponectin measurement by ELISA, and blood pressure (BP) and anthropometric parameters were measured at baseline and four weeks later. Student pairedt-test was performed to compare baseline and post-intervention data on outcome variables between the two study groups. Results showed a 2.24-fold increase in adiponectin level in SBM group (2.81 and 6.26 ng/mL at baseline and at the end of study, respectively) (p<0.01); whereas no significant change was observed in controls (3.58 and 3.51 ng/mL, respectively) (p>0.05). In SBM subjects, an improvement of BP profile was noted with a significant decrease in systolic BP (p<0.01). A positive correlation was found between SBM supplementation and adiponectin level, whereas an inverse correlation was noted between SBM supplementation and blood pressure, and also BMI. These findings suggest that SBM-increased adiponectin level and improved BP in a sample of Japanese young adults, and has the potential to improve blood pressure in humans. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"A number of polysaccharides have been reported to show immunomodulatory and antiviral activities against various animal viruses. AEX is a polysaccharide extracted from the green algae,Coccomyxa gloeobotrydiformis. The aim of this study was to examine the function of AEX in regulating the immune response in chickens and its capacity to inhibit the infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV), to gain an understanding of its immunomodulatory and antiviral ability. Here, preliminary immunological tests in vitro showed that the polysaccharide AEX can activate the chicken peripheral blood molecular cells' (PBMCs) response by inducing the production of cytokines and NO, promote extracellular antigen presentation but negatively regulate intracellular antigen presentation in chicken splenic lymphocytes, and promote the proliferation of splenic lymphocytes and DT40 cells. An antiviral analysis showed that AEX repressed IBDV replication by the deactivation of viral particles or by interfering with adsorption in vitro and reduced the IBDV viral titer in the chicken bursa of Fabricius. Finally, in this study, when AEX was used as an adjuvant for the IBDV vaccine, specific anti-IBDV antibody (IgY, IgM, and IgA) titers were significantly decreased. These results indicate that the polysaccharide AEX may be a potential alternative approach for anti-IBDV therapy and an immunomodulator for the poultry industry. However, more experimentation is needed to find suitable conditions for it to be used as an adjuvant for the IBDV vaccine. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Potential environmental risks of the old antiviral pharmaceuticals ganciclovir (GCV) and valganciclovir (VGCV) were reassessed based on new environmental fate and chronic ecotoxicity tests and on actual use data for Europe. Valganciclovir is hydrolyzed to GCV by intestinal and hepatic esterases, and hence the new environmental tests only refer to GCV. A sorption study showed that GCV will not sorb significantly, excluding the soil as a relevant environmental compartment. Despite earlier data suggesting nondegradability, a new water/sediment fate test showed GCV to be primarily and ultimately degraded and to be nonpersistent. The chronic ecotoxicity tests with algae and daphnids resulted in no inhibition at the highest tested concentrations, whereas a fish partial life cycle test, selected in view of mammalian mutagenicity and reprotoxicity data, showed effects on growth of the young fish, but not on gametogenesis, fertilization, embryogenesis, or teratogenicity. Predicted environmental concentrations were derived based on actual per capita use data for European countries for 2004 to 2014, and the highest was selected for the risk assessment. A comparison of predicted environmental concentrations with predicted no-effect concentrations shows no significant risk for wastewater treatment, surface waters, groundwater, or sediment. In addition, potential risks to (semi)aquatic top predators or to human consumers of water and fish are exceedingly low. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:2205-2216. \xc2\xa9 2017 The Author. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Inter-basin water transfer projects might cause complex hydro-chemical and biological variation in the receiving aquatic ecosystems. Whether machine learning models can be used to predict changes in phytoplankton community composition caused by water transfer projects have rarely been studied. In the present study, we used machine learning models to predict the total algal cell densities and changes in phytoplankton community composition in Miyun reservoir caused by the middle route of the South-to-North Water Transfer Project (SNWTP). The model performances of four machine learning models, including regression trees (RT), random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), and artificial neural network (ANN) were evaluated and the best model was selected for further prediction. The results showed that the predictive accuracies (Pearson's correlation coefficient) of the models were RF (0.974), ANN (0.951), SVM (0.860), and RT (0.817) in the training step and RF (0.806), ANN (0.734), SVM (0.730), and RT (0.692) in the testing step. Therefore, the RF model was the best method for estimating total algal cell densities. Furthermore, the predicted accuracies of the RF model for dominant phytoplankton phyla (Cyanophyta, Chlorophyta, and Bacillariophyta) in Miyun reservoir ranged from 0.824 to 0.869 in the testing step. The predicted proportions with water transfer of the different phytoplankton phyla ranged from\xc2\xa0-8.88% to 9.93%, and the predicted dominant phyla with water transfer in each season remained unchanged compared to the phytoplankton succession without water transfer. The results of the present study provide a useful tool for predicting the changes in phytoplankton community caused by water transfer. The method is transferrable to other locations via establishment of models with relevant data to a particular area. Our findings help better understanding the possible changes in aquatic ecosystems influenced by inter-basin water transfer. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The alga Cladophora glomerata can erupt in nuisance blooms throughout the lower Great Lakes. Since bacterial abundance increases with the emergence and decay of Cladophora, we investigated the prevalence of antibiotic resistance (ABR) in Cladophora-associated bacterial communities up-gradient and down-gradient from a large sewage treatment plant (STP) on Lake Ontario. Although STPs are well-known sources of ABR, we also expected detectable ABR from up-gradient wetland communities, since they receive surface run-off from urban and agricultural sources. Statistically significant differences in aquatic bacterial abundance and ABR were found between down-gradient beach samples and up-gradient coastal wetland samples (ANOVA, Holm-Sidak test, p<0.05). Decaying and free-floating Cladophora sampled near the STP had the highest bacterial densities overall, including on ampicillin- and vancomycin-treated plates. However, quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis of the ABR genes ampC, tetA, tetB, and vanA from environmental communities showed a different pattern. Some of the highest ABR gene levels occurred at the 2 coastal wetland sites (vanA). Overall, bacterial ABR profiles from environmental samples were distinguishable between living and decaying Cladophora, inferring that Cladophora may control bacterial ABR depending on its life-cycle stage. Our results also show how spatially and temporally dynamic ABR is in nearshore aquatic bacteria, which warrants further research. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Previous studies suggested that the removal of Ulva microscopic propagules (UMP) from cradle water might restrict the formation and expansion of green tides in the Yellow Sea, China. In this study, the distribution characteristics of UMP in the southern Yellow Sea was investigated, and then a flocculation experiment of UMP using modified clay (MC) was conducted at a selected station of the research cruise. The results indicated that the distribution of green algae thalli is one of the main factors that directly influence UMP distribution. UMP density was strongly negatively correlated with the distance between the sampling station and the centre of the area containing floating Ulva (r=-0.618***, n=83).>80% of the UMP was removed from the water column after MC application at a concentration of 0.1g/L, and MC applied at a concentration of 0.5g/L reduced the germination rate to 0.3%. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A simple ultra-high-pressure liquid chromatography (UHPLC) method for rapidly and simultaneously identifying thirteen carotenoids in Haematococcus pluvialis was developed in this study. The method is capable of effectively separating two astaxanthin isomers, two \xce\xb6-carotene isomers, and three phytoene isomers on two simple C18 columns within 9 and 12min only by using methanol and acetonitrile, respectively. To our best knowledge, this is the rapidest method for these carotenoid isomers, currently. Using this method, carotenoid profiling in the astaxanthin-accumulating H. pluvialis under environmental stresses was successfully carried out. Results indicated that carotenoid biosynthesis was differentially perturbed by environmental stresses, indicating that this simple and rapid method is suitable to not only bacterial but also algal samples, with potential applications for a wide range of samples from plant to animal. Finally, possible reasons for the elution order of carotenoids were studied. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Scientifically sound risk assessment strategies and derivations of environmental quality standards for metals present in freshwater environments are currently hampered by insufficient chronic toxicity data collected from natural ecosystems, as well as inadequate information on metal speciation. Thus, the aim of the present study was to evaluate the impact of freshwater containing multiple metals (Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn) on the chronic toxicity (72h) to the alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and compare the observed toxicity results to the total and free metal concentration of the samples. Based on the information obtained herein, an additive inhibitory free multi-metal ion concentration index, calculated as the sum of the equivalent toxicities to the free metal ion concentration of each sample, was developed. The proposed index was well correlated to the observed chronic toxicity results, indicating that the concentration addition, when expressed as the free-ion activity, can be considered a reliable indicator for the evaluation of ecological risk assessments for natural waters containing multiple metals. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Macrolide antibiotics and azole fungicides are detected widely in the aquatic environment as a result of their increased use in humans and animal livestock disease and their incomplete removal by wastewater treatment plants. In most cases, ecotoxicological tests are performed by using individual chemical substances, but because of the coexistence of a number of chemicals in the environment, organisms are exposed to many chemicals simultaneously. Therefore, it is important to evaluate effects of chemical interactions, adding to potential hazards of individual chemical. Here, we investigated the synergetic effects of combined chemicals (the azole fungicide ketoconazole and either of two macrolide antibiotics, erythromycin and clarithromycin) in growth inhibition testing using Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata according to OECD Test guideline 201. Combination index plots, isobolograms, and curve-shift analyses revealed that the combination of macrolide antibiotic and ketoconazole at various ratios resulted in strong synergism that enhanced growth inhibition of P.\xc2\xa0subcapitata, suggesting the necessity of investigating potential hazard of combined chemicals for regulatory purposes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata is a sickle-shaped freshwater green microalga that is normally found in unicellular form. Currently, it is the best known and most frequently used species of ecotoxicological bioindicator because of its high growth rate and sensitivity to toxicants. However, despite this organism\'s, our knowledge of its cell biology-for example, the patterns of nuclear and cytoplasmic division in the mitotic stage-is limited. Although it has been reported that P. subcapitata proliferates by popularity forming four daughter cells (autospores) through multiple fission after two nuclear divisions, here, we report two additional reproductive patterns by which two autospores are formed by binary fission ("two-autospore type") and eight autospores are formed by multiple fission ("eight-autospore type"). Moreover, we found that cell reproductive patterns differed markedly with the culture conditions or with exposure to either of two typical toxicants, potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7) and 3,5-dichlorophenol (3,5-DCP). The eight-autospore type occurred at the highest frequency in the early phase of culture, but it disappeared under 3,5-DCP at 2.0 mg/L. Under 0.3 mg/L K2CrO7 (Cr(VI)) the eight-autospore type took substantially longer to appear than in control culture. The two-autospore type occurred only in the late phase of culture. To our knowledge, this is the first detailed evaluation of the reproductive patterns of P. subcapitata, which changed dramatically in the presence of toxicants. These findings suggest that observation of the reproductive patterns of P. subcapitata will help to elucidate different cell reactions to toxicants. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study aims at controlling of the cyanobacteria Oscillatoria simplicissima, those that produce neurotoxins and have negative impacts on the aquatic organisms, using biosynthesized metal nanoparticles (NPs). Silver-NPs (Ag-NPs) have been successfully biosynthesized using Nannochloropsis oculata and Tetraselmis tetrathele cultures. Also, Ag-NPs and iron oxide-NPs (Fe3O4-NPs) were synthesized by Halophila stipulacea aqueous extract. The structural composition of the different biosynthesized NPs was studied. The algae cultures and the extract were used as reductants of AgNO3, and brown colors due to Ag-NP biosynthesis were observed. Silver signals were recorded in their corresponding EDX spectra. FTIR analyses showed that proteins in N. oculata and T. tetrathele cultures reduced AgNO3, and aromatic compounds stabilized the biogenic Ag-NPs. H. stipulacea extract contains proteins and polyphenols that could be in charge for the reduction of silver and iron ions into nanoparticles and polysaccharides which stabilized the biosynthesized Ag-NPs and Fe3O4-NPs. The Ag-NPs biosynthesized by T. tetrathele cultures and H. stipulacea aqueous extract exerted outstanding negative impacts on O. simplicissima (optical density and total chlorophyll) and the Ag-NPs biosynthesized using N. oculata culture exerted the moderate performance. The study results suggest that the bioactive compounds present in the FTIR profiles of the Ag-NPs and or ionic silver may be the main contributors in their anti-algal effects. A trial to use the biosynthesized Fe3O4-NPs using H. stipulacea aqueous extract to separate Ag-NPs was successfully carried out. Since the synthesis and applications of nanomaterials is a hot subject of research, the study outcomes not only provide a green approach for the synthesis of metal-NPs but also open the way for more nanoparticle applications. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Prasinophytes form a paraphyletic assemblage of early diverging green algae, which have the potential to reveal the traits of the last common ancestor of the main two green lineages: (i) chlorophyte algae and (ii) streptophyte algae. Understanding the genetic composition of prasinophyte algae is fundamental to understanding the diversification and evolutionary processes that may have occurred in both green lineages. In this study, we sequenced the chloroplast genome of Pyramimonas parkeae NIES254 and compared it with that of P.\xc2\xa0parkeae CCMP726, the only other fully sequenced P.\xc2\xa0parkeae chloroplast genome. The results revealed that P.\xc2\xa0parkeae chloroplast genomes are surprisingly variable. The chloroplast genome of NIES254 was larger than that of CCMP726 by 3,204\xc2\xa0bp, the NIES254 large single copy was 288\xc2\xa0bp longer, the small single copy was 5,088\xc2\xa0bp longer, and the IR was 1,086\xc2\xa0bp shorter than that of CCMP726. Similarity values of the two strains were almost zero in four large hot spot regions. Finally, the strains differed in copy number for three protein-coding genes: ycf20, psaC, and ndhE. Phylogenetic analyses using 16S and 18S rDNA and rbcL sequences resolved a clade consisting of these two P.\xc2\xa0parkeae strains and a clade consisting of these plus other Pyramimonas isolates. These results are consistent with past studies indicating that prasinophyte chloroplast genomes display a higher level of variation than is commonly found among land plants. Consequently, prasinophyte chloroplast genomes may be less useful for inferring the early history of Viridiplantae than has been the case for land plant diversification. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The effects of sulfates and proteins of the sulfated polysaccharide-F2(SP-F2) from Codium fragile on the NK cell activation and cytotoxicity were systematically investigated. The SP-F2treatment significantly increased both NK cell proliferation (129%/100\xce\xbcg/mL) and their potent cytotoxic effects against HeLa cells (46%). The SP-F2treatment appeared to enhance NK cell activation through the expression of the activating receptor, NKp30; the secretion of the cytokine, IFN-\xce\xb3 and the release of the lysing proteins, perforin and granzyme-B. However, the treatment of the SP-F2derivatives, deproteinated and desulfated-F2(DP-F2and DS-F2), markedly lowered the mRNA expression levels of IFN-\xce\xb3, granzyme-B, NKp30 and FasL, suggesting that the proteins and sulfates were essential for the interaction between the SP-F2and NK cells. The antibody neutralization test revealed that CR3 might be a critical receptor involved in SP-F2NK cell activation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Concentrations of nine heavy metals (Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Zn) were determined in the green seaweed species Cladophora glomerata and Ulva compressa collected from El-Mex and Sidi Kirayr locations. The heavy metal concentrations in algal tissues were in direct correlation with their soluble concentrations in seawater with the descending order: Fe<Mn<Zn<Cu<Cr<Pb<Ni<Cd<Co. The bioaccumulation factor of iron and copper was higher in both tested species collected from El-Mex, while it was maximum for cadmium in Sidi Kirayr location. This metal contamination led to apparent alternation in algal thalli morphology. The results showed that C. glomerata had a superior adaptation to metal stress than U. compressa, due to its ability to produce non-enzymatic and enzymatic compounds for scavenging of the produced reactive oxygen species. The recorded contents of the oxidative stress indices (phenols, antioxidant activity, lipid peroxidation, hydrogen peroxide, and ascorbic acid) and the antioxidant enzymes (catalase, peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase) were higher in both tested seaweeds from El-Mex bay. Additionally, the estimated metal pollution index and pollution load index for the tested algae and seawaters ensured their ability as metal pollution bioindicators for monitoring marine environment quality and as biomarkers for oxidative damage assessment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Activated carbons were derived from Enteromorpha prolifera immersed in H3PO4solution or the H3PO4solution mixed with sodium benzenesulfonate (SBS), producing AC and AC-SBS. NaOH solution was employed in regeneration of ciprofloxacin (CIP)-loaded AC and AC-SBS to obtain RAC and RAC-SBS. The properties of the original and regenerated activated carbons were characterized by thermo-gravimetric analysis (TGA), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), N2adsorption/desorption isotherms and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). Batched adsorption studies were carried out to compare CIP adsorption behaviors of the four carbons. The results suggested that the four samples exhibited higher proportions of mesopores and similar functional groups. Although AC displayed much higher specific surface area (SBET) (1045.79m2/g) than AC-SBS (738.03m2/g), its CIP adsorption capacity was much less than AC-SBS. The maximum adsorption capacity for AC, AC-SBS, RAC and RAC-SBS were found to be 250mg/g, 286mg/g, 233mg/g and 256mg/g, respectively, with the isotherms adhering to Langmuir isotherm model. The electrostatic attraction and cation exchange between CIP and the four carbons were the dominant adsorption mechanisms. Moreover, the thermodynamic parameters represented that the adsorption process had been confirmed to be a spontaneous and endothermic reaction. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The environmental impacts of various pollutants on the entire levels of organisms are under investigation. Among these pollutants, endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs) present a serious hazard, even though the environmental significance of these compounds remains basically unknown. To drop some light on this field, we assessed the effects of a 11-day exposure of 17\xce\xb1-ethinylestradiol (EE2) on the growth, metabolic content, antioxidant response, oxidative stress, and genetic damage of Dunaliella salina, isolated from Tunisian biotopes. The results showed that at 10\xc2\xa0ng\xc2\xa0L-1, EE2 could stimulate the growth of D. salina and increase its cellular content of photosynthetic pigments and metabolites; however, it did not significantly increase the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) or the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). In contrast, exposure to high levels of EE2 concentrations significantly inhibited the growth of D. salina (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05), decreased the cellular content of photosynthetic pigments, increased the cellular content of all of the metabolites and the SOD activity, and inhibited CAT and GPx activities. Nevertheless, the balance between oxidant and antioxidant enzymes was disrupted because H2O2content along with MDA content simultaneously increased. Contrary to expected results, DNA damage (strand breaks) decreased after the exposure of algae to EE2. The results of this study suggest that EE2 toxicity could result in environmental impacts with consequences on the whole aquatic community. Graphical abstract. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The PETROTOX model was developed to perform aquatic hazard assessment of petroleum substances based on substance composition. The model relies on the hydrocarbon block method, which is widely used for conducting petroleum substance risk assessments providing further justification for evaluating model performance. Previous work described this model and provided a preliminary calibration and validation using acute toxicity data for limited petroleum substance. The objective of the present study was to re-evaluate PETROTOX using expanded data covering both acute and chronic toxicity endpoints on invertebrates, algae, and fish for a wider range of petroleum substances. The results indicated that recalibration of 2 model parameters was required, namely, the algal critical target lipid body burden and the log octanol-water partition coefficient (KOW) limit, used to account for reduced bioavailability of hydrophobic constituents. Acute predictions from the updated model were compared with observed toxicity data and found to generally be within a factor of 3 for algae and invertebrates but overestimated fish toxicity. Chronic predictions were generally within a factor of 5 of empirical data. Furthermore, PETROTOX predicted acute and chronic hazard classifications that were consistent or conservative in 93 and 84% of comparisons, respectively. The PETROTOX model is considered suitable for the purpose of characterizing petroleum substance hazard in substance classification and risk assessments. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:2245-2252. \xc2\xa9 2017 SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The identification of new organisms for environmental toxicology bioassays is currently a priority, since these tools are strongly limited by the ecological relevance of taxa used to study global change. Lichens are sensitive bioindicators of air quality and their microalgae are an untapped source for new low-cost miniaturized bioassays with ecological importance. In order to increase the availability of a wider range of taxa for bioassays, the sensitivity of two symbiotic lichen microalgae, Asterochloris erici and Trebouxia sp. TR9, to atrazine was evaluated. To achieve this goal, axenic cultures of these phycobionts in suspension were exposed to a range of environmental concentrations of the herbicide atrazine, a common water pollutant. Optical density and chlorophyll autofluorescence were used as endpoints of ecotoxicity and ecophysiology on cell suspensions. Results show that lichen microalgae show high sensitivity to very low doses of atrazine, being higher in Asterochloris erici than in Trebouxia sp. TR9. We conclude that environmental concentrations of atrazine could modify population dynamics probably through a shift in reproduction strategies of these organisms. This seminal work is a breakthrough in the use of lichen microalgae in the assessment of micropollution effects on biodiversity. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is ubiquitous in water and involved in numerous important chemical processes in aqueous systems, enabling it a unique challenge for a variety of water treatment processes. Soybean peroxidase (SBP)-based enzymatic process, as a promising treatment technique, has been successfully applied to remove pollutants in wastewaters such as coal-tar and refinery wastewater. In this study, the effect of DOM on the removal of polychlorinated aromatic antimicrobials triclosan (TCS) by SBP was investigated. Our results suggested that DOM significantly suppressed the catalytic performance of SBP to TCS, presumably resulting from the competition of the phenolic moiety in DOM structure as the active substrate of SBP via the analysis of excitation emission matrix (EEM) spectra of DOM. Although the product species of TCS in SBP-mediated system with DOM has no change compared with the system without DOM, the yields of self-coupling products relative to total transformed TCS were remarkably reduced in the presence of DOM, suggesting that DOM participated in the oxidative coupling reactions. Cross-coupling between TCS and DOM was also verified using guaiacol as a model DOM constituent. Moreover, the products including self-coupling products and co-polymers in SBP-mediated TCS reaction system with DOM were innocuous through growth inhibition assay of S.\xc2\xa0obliquus. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The genus Micromonas comprises phytoplankton that show among the widest latitudinal distributions on Earth, and members of this genus are recurrently infected by prasinoviruses in contrasted thermal ecosystems. In this study, we assessed how temperature influences the interplay between the main genetic clades of this prominent microalga and their viruses. The growth of three Micromonas strains (Mic-A, Mic-B, Mic-C) and the stability of their respective lytic viruses (MicV-A, MicV-B, MicV-C) were measured over a thermal range of 4-32.5\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C. Similar growth temperature optima (Topt) were predicted for all three hosts but Mic-B exhibited a broader thermal tolerance than Mic-A and Mic-C, suggesting distinct thermoacclimation strategies. Similarly, the MicV-C virus displayed a remarkable thermal stability compared with MicV-A and MicV-B. Despite these divergences, infection dynamics showed that temperatures below Toptlengthened lytic cycle kinetics and reduced viral yield and, notably, that infection at temperatures above Toptdid not usually result in cell lysis. Two mechanisms operated depending on the temperature and the biological system. Hosts either prevented the production of viral progeny or maintained their ability to produce virions with no apparent cell lysis, pointing to a possible switch in the viral life strategy. Hence, temperature changes critically affect the outcome of Micromonas infection and have implications for ocean biogeochemistry and evolution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"The marine green macroalgaUlva(Chlorophyta) lives in a mutualistic symbiosis with bacteria that influence growth, development, and morphogenesis. We surveyed changes inUlva's chemosphere, which was defined as a space where organisms interact with each other via compounds, such as infochemicals, nutrients, morphogens, and defense compounds. Thereby,Ulva mutabiliscooperates with bacteria, in particular,Roseovariussp. strain MS2 andMaribactersp. strain MS6 (formerly identified asRoseobactersp. strain MS2 andCytophagasp. strain MS6). Without this accompanying microbial flora,U. mutabilisforms only callus-like colonies. However, upon addition of the two bacteria species, in effect forming a tripartite community, morphogenesis can be completely restored. Under this strictly standardized condition, bioactive and eco-physiologically-relevant marine natural products can be discovered. Solid phase extracted waterborne metabolites were analyzed using a metabolomics platform, facilitating gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis, combined with the necessary acquisition of biological metadata. Multivariate statistics of the GC-MS and LC-MS data revealed strong differences betweenUlva's growth phases, as well as between the axenicUlvacultures and the tripartite community. Waterborne biomarkers, including glycerol, were identified as potential indicators for algal carbon source and bacterial-algal interactions. Furthermore, it was demonstrated thatU. mutabilisreleases glycerol that can be utilized for growth byRoseovariussp. MS2. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The wide use of ZnO nanoparticles in a number of products implies an increasing release into the marine environment, resulting in the need to evaluate the potential effects upon organisms, and particularly phytoplankton, being at the base of the throphic chain. To this aim, dose-response curves for the green alga Tetraselmis suecica and the diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum derived from the exposure to nano ZnO (100\xc2\xa0nm) were evaluated and compared with those obtained for bulk ZnO (200\xc2\xa0nm) and ionic zinc. The toxic effects to both algae species were reported as no observable effect concentration (NOEC) of growth inhibition and as 1, 10, and 50% effect concentrations (EC1, EC10, and EC50). The toxicity decreased in the order nano ZnO>Zn2+>bulk ZnO. EC50 values for nano ZnO were 3.91 [3.66-4.14] mg Zn/L towards the green microalgae and 1.09 [0.96-1.57]mg Zn/L towards the diatom, indicating a higher sensitivity of P. tricornutum. The observed diverse effects can be ascribed to the interaction occurring between different algae and ZnO particles. Due to algae motility, ZnO particles were intercepted in different phases of aggregation and sedimentation processes, while algae morphology and size can influence the level of entrapment by NP aggregates.This underlines the need to take into account the peculiarity of the biological system in the assessment of NP toxicity. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Algae are smaller organisms than land plants and offer clear advantages in research over terrestrial species in terms of rapid production, short generation time and varied commercial applications. Thus, studies investigating the practical development of effective algal production are important and will improve our understanding of both aquatic and terrestrial plants. In this study we estimated multiple physicochemical and secondary structural properties of protein sequences, the predicted presence of post-translational modification (PTM) sites, and subcellular localization using a total of 510,123 protein sequences from the proteomes of 31 algal and three plant species. Algal species were broadly selected from green and red algae, glaucophytes, oomycetes, diatoms and other microalgal groups. The results were deposited in the Algal Protein Annotation Suite database (Alga-PrAS; http://alga-pras.riken.jp/), which can be freely accessed online. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The photocatalytic removal of nitrate with simultaneous hydrogen generation was demonstrated using zero-valent nano-copper-modified titania (P25) as photocatalyst in the presence of UV-A-Vis radiation. Glycerol, a by-product in biodiesel production, was chosen as a hole scavenger. Under the adopted experimental conditions, a nitrate removal efficiency up to 100% and a simultaneous hydrogen production up to 14\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol/L of H2were achieved (catalyst load\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0150\xc2\xa0mg/L, initial concentration of nitrate\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa050\xc2\xa0mg/L, initial concentration of glycerol\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.8\xc2\xa0mol/L). The reaction rates were independent of the starting glycerol concentration. This process allows accomplishing nitrate removal, with the additional benefit of producing hydrogen under artificial UV-A radiation. A kinetic model was also developed and it may represent a benchmark for a detailed understanding of the process kinetics. A set of acute and chronic bioassays (Vibrio fischeri, Raphidocelis subcapitata, and Daphnia magna) was performed to evaluate the potential ecotoxicity of the nitrate/by-product mixture formed during the photocatalytic process. The ecotoxicological assessment indicated an ecotoxic effect of oxidation intermediates and by-products produced during the process. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Transcriptome sequencing and annotation was performed on Haematococcus pluvialis mutant red cells induced with high light under 15% CO2to demonstrate why astaxanthin yield of the mutant was 1.7 times higher than that of a wild strain. It was found that 56% of 1947 differentially expressed genes were upregulated in mutant cells. Most significant differences were found in unigenes related to photosynthesis, carotenoid biosynthesis and fatty acid biosynthesis pathways. The pyruvate kinase increased by 3.5-fold in mutant cells. Thus, more pyruvate, which was beneficial to carotenoids and fatty acid biosynthesis, was generated. Phytoene synthase, zeta-carotene desaturase, lycopene beta-cyclase involved in \xce\xb2-carotene biosynthesis in mutant cells were upregulated by 10.4-, 4.4-, and 5.8-fold, respectively. Beta-carotene 3-hydroxylase catalyzing conversion of \xce\xb2-carotene into astaxanthin was upregulated by 18.4-fold. The fatty acid biosynthesis was promoted because of the upregulation of acetyl-CoA synthetase and acetyl-CoA carboxylase, thus increasing astaxanthin esterification and accumulation in mutant cells. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'OBJECTIVES: To optimize the cultivation media for the growth rate of Haematococcus pluvialis and to study the transcription regulation of the algal nitrate reductase (NR), a key enzyme for nitrogen metabolism.RESULTS: The NR gene from H. pluvialis hd7 consists of 5636 nucleotides, including 14 introns. The cDNA ORF is 2718\xc2\xa0bp, encoding a 905 aa protein with three conserved domains. The NR amino acids of H. pluvialis hd7 are hydrophilic and have similarity of 72% compared to that of Dunaliella. NR transcription increased with an increase of nitrate concentration from 0.4 to 1\xc2\xa0g/l. A deficiency of nitrogen increased NR transcription significantly. The transcription level of NR increased at phosphorus concentrations from 0.08 to 0.2\xc2\xa0g/l, with a maximum at 0.08\xc2\xa0g/l. The optimum parameters of medium component for transcription of NR and growth of H. pluvialis were 0.3\xc2\xa0g NaNO3/l, 0.045\xc2\xa0g KH2PO4/l and 1.08\xc2\xa0g sodium acetate/l.CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a better understanding of nitrate regulation in H. pluvialis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this paper, two freshwater microalgae (Tetradesmus obliquus and Botryococcus braunii), a marine diatom (Phaeodactylum tricornutum) and a photosynthetic cyanobacterium (Arthrospira maxima) were investigated for their ability to grow on liquid digestates (LDs). Three LDs were obtained from anaerobic digestion of different organic wastes: zootechnical (ZW LD), vegetable biomass (VW LD) and the organic fraction of municipal solid wastes (MW LD). All the strains showed the same growth performance on VW LD as on the respective standard media (SM), while ZW LD was efficient only for growth of T. obliquus and B. braunii. MW LD was the poorest growth medium for all the strains. Data on nutrient removal efficiency showed that A. maxima and T. obliquus made the best use of NH4+-N with removal values ranging between 98.9-99.8%, while P. tricornutum and B. braunii showed values of 79.0 and 88.5% respectively. Applying repeated batch cultivation in photobioreactors, the biochemical composition of A. maxima and T. obliquus biomass grown on ZW LD and VW LD, showed an increase of lipid, carbohydrates and ash in both microalgae. Biomass biochemical profiles suggest possible applications in feed, chemicals and energy sectors. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Fulvic acid (FA) triggers lipid accumulation in Monoraphidium sp. FXY-10, which can produce biofuels. Therefore, the metabolism shift and gene expression changes influenced by fulvic acid should be investigated. In this study, lipid and protein contents increased rapidly from 44.6% to 54.3% and from 31.4% to 39.7% under FA treatment, respectively. By contrast, carbohydrate content sharply declined from 49.5% to 32.5%. The correlation between lipid content and gene expression was also analyzed. Results revealed that accD, ME, and GPAT genes were significantly correlated with lipid accumulation. These genes could likely influence lipid accumulation and could be selected as modification candidates. These results demonstrated that FA significantly increased microalgal lipid accumulation by changing the intracellular reactive oxygen species, gene expression, and enzyme activities of acetyl-CoA carboxylase, malic enzyme, and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The European Construction Products Regulation allows Member States to adopt rules for evaluating the environmental impact of their buildings. The aim of the project was to develop recommendations for a test battery for the ecotoxicological assessment of the environmental impact of construction products for outdoor use and contribute to the European harmonization of test methods. From a shortlist of 39 products 20 products were included in the ecotoxicological testing program. Monolithic and plate-like construction products were eluted in the Dynamic Surface Leaching test (DSLT) in accordance with CEN/TS 16637-2, granular products were eluted in a one stage batch test in accordance with DIN EN 12457-1. The eluates were examined in four aquatic toxicity tests (algae, daphnia, luminescent bacteria, fish eggs), a genotoxicity test (umu test) and in the respirometer test (OECD 301\xc2\xa0F). Here, low to very high ecotoxicity was observed (up to a dilution factor of 1536). Six out of 8 eluates, whose TOC exceeded 10\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1showed a good biodegradability above 75%. The intra-laboratory repeatability of the Lowest Ineffective Dilution (LID) usually was within \xc2\xb11 dilution steps (ecotoxicity tests) and \xc2\xb12 dilution steps (leaching and ecotoxicity tests). This is acceptable, when considering that the overall variability of sample preparation, leaching test, and bioassays add up. The conclusions lead to practical recommendations for a suitable combination of leaching and ecotoxicity tests. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Switching cultivation (mixotrophic-heterotrophic, 12h:12h) of Heynigia riparia SX01 was studied, the maximum biomass concentration of 3.55gL-1and lipid yield of 1.45gL-1were achieved after 8days cultivation. The extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) was developed as co-product. Addition of MgSO4could enhance the production of EPS. The highest amount of 0.60gL-1EPS was obtained with the addition of 2gL-1MgSO4, the self-flocculation efficiency was as high as 83% at this condition. The total lipid and lipid fractions did not show differences with extra MgSO4. Based on the above results, a new biodiesel production model was proposed: culturing Heynigia riparia SX01 with extra 2gL-1MgSO4by switching cultivation and using self flocculation to collect microalgae for biodiesel production, while EPS was collected as valuable co-products. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The cell transformation from green motile cells to non-motile cells and astaxanthin accumulation can be induced in the green algaHaematococcus pluvialiscultured outdoors. In the initial 3 d of incubation (cell transformation phase), light absorption and photosynthetic electron transport became more efficient. After five days of incubation (astaxanthin accumulation phase), the light absorption per active reaction center (ABS/RC) increased, but the efficiency of electron transport (\xcf\x88o) and the quantum yield of electron transport (\xcf\x86Eo) decreased with increased time, indicating that the capacity of photosynthetic energy utilization decreased significantly during astaxanthin accumulation, leading to an imbalance between photosynthetic light absorption and energy utilization. It would inevitably aggravate photoinhibition under high light, e.g., at midday. However, the level of photoinhibition inH. pluvialisdecreased as the incubation time increased, which is reflected by the fact thatFv/Fmdetermined at midday decreased significantly in the initial 3 d of incubation, but was affected very little after seven days of incubation, compared with that determined at predawn. This might be because the non-photochemical quenching, plastid terminal oxidase, photosystem I cyclic electron transport, defensive enzymes and the accumulated astaxanthin can protect cells against photoinhibition. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"The environmental bioavailability of zinc (II), i.e., the uptake of the element by an organism, was determined using two microalgae species, Scenedesmus acutus and Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, and estimated using hollow fiber supported liquid membrane (HF-SLM) device as the chemical surrogate. Several experimental conditions were studied including the presence of organic matter, inorganic anions and concomitant cations and pH. The results show strong positive correlation coefficients between the responses given by the HF-SLM and the microalgae species (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.900 for S. acutus and r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.876 for P. subcapitata) in multivariate environments (changes in pH, calcium, humic and citrate concentrations). The maximum amount of zinc (II) retained by the HF-SLM (4.7\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa010-8\xc2\xa0mol/cm2) was higher than those for P. subcapitata and S. acutus (9.4\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa010-11\xc2\xa0mol/cm2and 6.2\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa010-11\xc2\xa0mol/cm2, respectively). The variation in pH (pH 5.5-9) was the variable with the greatest effect on zinc internalization in all systems, increasing approximately 2.5 times for P. subcapitata and 5.5 times for S. acutus respect to pH\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa05.5, while the presence of humic acids did not affect the response. The species' concentration analysis of the experimental design at pH\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa05.5 indicated that the amount of internalized zinc (II) by the HF-SLM and both microalgae species is strongly dependent on the free zinc concentration (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.910 for the HF-SLM, r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.922 for S. acutus and r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.954 for P. subcapitata); however, at pH\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa09.0, the amount of internalized zinc (II) is strongly dependent on the sum of free zinc and labile species (r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.912 for the HF-SLM, r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.947 for S. acutus and r\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.900 for P. subcapitata). The presence of inorganic ligands (chloride, sulfate, phosphate, carbonate, and nitrate) and metal ions (cobalt (II), copper (II), nickel (II), chromium (VI), lead (II) and cadmium (II)) produced different behaviors both in the chemical surrogate and the biological references. The results showed that the synthetic device can mimic biological uptake in the presence of humic acids, nitrate, sulfate, and phosphate, and pH within the range 5.5-9 when S. acutus was used as the biological reference, considering the simultaneous contribution of the Zn2+and ZnOH+labile species depending on the chemical composition of the medium. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Large quantities of personal care products (PCPs) are used daily and many of their chemical ingredients are subsequently released into marine environments. Cultures of the marine microalga Tetraselmis suecica were exposed for 24\xc2\xa0h to three emerging compounds included in the main classes of PCPs: the UV filter benzophenone-3 (BP-3), the disinfectant triclosan (TCS) and the fragrance tonalide (AHTN). Concentrations tested, expressed as cellular quota (pg cell-1), ranged from 5 to 40 for BP-3, from 2 to 16 for TCS and from 1.2 to 2.4 for AHTN. A small cytometric panel was carried out to evaluate key cytotoxicity biomarkers including inherent cell properties, growth and metabolic activity and cytoplasmic membrane properties. BP-3 caused a significant increase in growth rate, metabolic activity and chlorophyll a fluorescence from 10\xc2\xa0pg cell-1. However, growth and esterase activity decreased in cells exposed to all TCS and AHTN concentrations, except the lowest ones. Also these two compounds provoked a significant swelling of cells, more pronounced in the case of TCS-exposed cells. Although all treated cells remained viable, changes in membrane potential were observed. BP-3 and AHTN caused a significant depolarization of cells from 10 to 1.6\xc2\xa0pg cell-1, respectively; however all TCS concentrations assayed caused a noticeable hyperpolarization of cells. Metabolic activity and cytoplasmic membrane potential were the most sensitive parameters. It can be concluded that the toxicological model used and the toxicological parameters evaluated are suitable to assess the toxicity of these emerging contaminants. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Members of the genus Ulva are widespread and abundant in intertidal and shallow subtidal areas but there are conflicting data regarding susceptibility to herbivory. While some studies have documented that Ulva spp. were favored by a diversity of marine herbivores, other work has revealed herbivore deterrence. We investigated grazing and growth rates of the littorinid species, Littorina littorea and L.\xc2\xa0obtusata, when offered Fucus vesiculosus, Ascophyllum nodosum, Ulva lactuca, and Chondrus crispus, highlighting distinctive vulnerabilities to toxic effects of U.\xc2\xa0lactuca. Ulva\xc2\xa0lactuca was the preferred food of L.\xc2\xa0littorea, while L.\xc2\xa0obtusata showed no grazing on this ephemeral algal species. In contrast, F.\xc2\xa0vesiculosus was highly preferred by L.\xc2\xa0obtusata. Although L.\xc2\xa0littorea demonstrated a grazing preference for U.\xc2\xa0lactuca, growth rate of this gastropod species was nearly 3\xc3\x97 greater when fed F.\xc2\xa0vesiculosus, suggesting a non-lethal, negative effect of U.\xc2\xa0lactuca on L.\xc2\xa0littorea with long-term exposure. Mortality of L.\xc2\xa0obtusata ranged from 0% to 100% when held in the presence of various Ulva densities for 1\xc2\xa0week, and Ulva exudate depressed herbivory of this gastropod. We conclude that the water-soluble, toxic exudate produced by U.\xc2\xa0lactuca in response to herbivory had allelochemical properties, and may contain a cleavage product (acrylic acid) of dimethylsulfoniopropionate or reactive oxygen species (i.e., H2O2). Observed differences in susceptibility to Ulva toxicity by the littorinid species may be related to generalist versus specialist feeding and habitat strategies. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The impact of bio-remediation agent nZVI on environment is still inadequately understood, especially on aquatic food web. The study presented here has therefore considered both chemical (CS) and biological (BS) synthetic origins of nZVI and their effects on both algae and daphnia. The study is unique in its attempt to explore the possibility of trophic transfer from algae to its immediate higher niche (daphnia as the model). An equal weightage of the effects of both CS and BS nZVI on algae and daphnia has been explored here; hence it allows us to compare the capping of nZVI on toxicity. To examine the causes of observed lethality- ROS generation, effects on the activity of oxidative enzymes, membrane damage and biouptake of nZVI was analysed. The overall outcome of CS and BS nZVI on lethality was significantly different in algae and daphnia, where daphnia demonstrated relatively higher sensitivity against CS nZVI. Algae demonstrated considerable differences in CS and BS nZVI toxicity only at higher concentration. This study did not show a probable biomagnification and trophic transfer from algae to daphnia under the experimental conditions even at the highest exposure concentration. The study instigates the importance of trophic transfer to understand the possible biomagnification of nZVI among organisms of different trophic levels and eventually the consequences on environment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Environmental consequences of high productivity piggeries are significant and can result in negative environmental impacts, hence bioremediation techniques (in particular using macroalgae) are therefore of great interest. Here, the growth potential of several freshwater macroalgae in anaerobic digestion piggery effluent (ADPE), their nutrient removal rates and biochemical composition of the biomass were investigated under outdoor climatic conditions. A consortium of two macroalgae, Rhizoclonium sp. and Ulothrix sp. was isolated and could efficiently grow in the ADPE. Maximum ammonium removal rate (30.6\xc2\xb16.50mg NH4+-NL-1d-1) was achieved at ADPE concentration equivalent to 248mgNH4+-NL-1. Mean biomass productivity of 31.1\xc2\xb11.14g ash-free dry weight (AFDW) m-2d-1was achieved. Total carbohydrate and protein contents ranged between 42.8-54.8 and 43.4-45.0% AFDW, respectively, while total lipid content was very low. The study indicates the potential use of this macroalgal consortium for treating ADPE as well as source of animal feed production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Hydrosoluble glycogen is the major energy storage compound in bacteria, archaea, fungi, and animal cells. In contrast, photosynthetic eukaryotes have evolved to build a highly organized semicrystalline granule of starch. Several enzymes are involved in polysaccharide synthesis, among which glycogen or starch synthase catalyze the elongation of the \xce\xb1-1,4-glucan chain. Ostreococcus tauri, accumulates a single starch granule and contains three starch synthase III (SSIII) isoforms, known as OsttaSSIII-A, OsttaSSIII-B and OsttaSSIII-C. After amino acids sequence analysis we found that OsttaSSIII-C lacks starch-binding domains, being 49% identical to the catalytic region of the SSIII from Arabidopsis thaliana and 32% identical to the entire Escherichia coli glycogen synthase. The recombinant, highly purified OsttaSSIII-C exhibited preference to use as a primer branched glycans (such as rabbit muscle glycogen and amylopectin), rather than amylose. Also, the enzyme displayed a high affinity toward ADP-glucose. We found a marked conservation of the amino acids located in the catalytic site, and specifically determined the role of residues R270, K275 and E352 by site-directed mutagenesis. Results show that these residues are important for OsttaSSIII-C activity, suggesting a strong similarity between the active site of the O.\xc2\xa0tauri SSIII-C isoform and other bacterial glycogen synthases. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Gaseous phase hydration effect of extremely dehydrated thallus of the Antarctic lichenized fungus Turgidosculum complicatulum and of green alga Prasiola crispa was observed using hydration kinetics, sorption isotherm,1H-NMR spectroscopy and relaxometry. Three bound water fractions were distinguished: (1) very tightly bound water, (2) tightly bound water and (3) a loosely bound water fraction detected at higher levels of hydration. Sorption isotherm was sigmoidal in form and well fitted using Dent model. The relative mass of water saturating primary water binding sites was \xce\x94M/m0\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.055 for T. complicatulum and \xce\x94M/m0\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.131 for P. crispa.1H-NMR free induction decays (FIDs) for T. complicatulum and for P. crispa were superpositions of a solid signal component, and one averaged liquid signal component for P. crispa thallus ([Formula: see text] \xe2\x89\x88 80\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5s) or two liquid signal components coming from a tightly bound ([Formula: see text]\xe2\x89\x88 71\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5s) and from a loosely bound water fraction ([Formula: see text]\xe2\x89\x88 278\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5s) for T. complicatulum.1H-NMR spectra recorded for T. complicatulum and for P. crispa thalli revealed one averaged mobile proton signal component L. The total liquid signal component expressed in units of solid (L1\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa0L2)/S suggests the presence of water soluble fraction in T. complicatulum thallus. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Airborne algae from sites on the windward (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa03) and leeward (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa03) sides of the Ko'olau Mountain range of O'ahu, Hawai'i, were sampled for a 16 d period during January and February 2015 using passive collection devices and were characterized using Illumina MiSeq sequencing of the universal plastid amplicon marker. Amplicons were assigned to 3,023 operational taxonomic units (OTUs), which included 1,189 cyanobacteria, 1,009 heterotrophic bacteria, and 304 Eukaryota (of which 284 were algae and land plants). Analyses demonstrated substantially more OTUs at windward than leeward O'ahu sites during the sampling period. Removal of nonalgal OTUs revealed a greater number of algal reads recovered from windward (839,853) than leeward sites (355,387), with the majority of these being cyanobacteria. The 1,234 total algal OTUs included cyanobacteria, diatoms, cryptophytes, brown algae, chlorophyte green algae, and charophyte green algae. A total of 208 algal OTUs were identified from leeward side samplers (including OTUs in common among samplers) and 1,995 algal OTUs were identified from windward samplers. Barcoding analyses of the most abundant algal OTUs indicated that very few were shared between the windward and leeward sides of the Ko'olau Mountains, highlighting the localized scale at which these airborne algae communities differ. Back trajectories of air masses arriving on O'ahu during the sampling period were calculated using the NOAA HY-SPLIT model and suggested that the sampling period was composed of three large-scale meteorological events, indicating a diversity of potential sources of airborne algae outside of the Hawaiian Islands. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Algae are at a low trophic level and play a crucial role in aquatic food webs. They can uptake and accumulate the trace element selenium (Se), which can be either essential or toxic to algal growth depending on the dosage and species. Se toxicity and algae resistance varied across different organisms. In order to investigate the effects of Se on the unicellular green alga Haematococcus pluvialis, an important industrial resource for natural astaxanthin, the algal growth rate, chlorophyll content, and fluorescence parameters were derived from experimental treatment with different concentrations of selenite. The results showed that the EC50for the algal growth rate was 24mg/L, and that a low dosage of selenite (3mg/L) may not hinder H. pluvialis cell growth, but selenite at levels higher than 13mg/L do restrain cell growth. Bioaccumulation experiments showed that H. pluvialis accumulated up to 646\xce\xbcg/g total Se and 380\xce\xbcg/g organic Se, dry weight. However, treatment with high concentrations of selenite significantly increased intracellular hydrogen peroxide levels, antioxidant enzyme activity, and the production of astaxanthin, suggesting that Se bioaccumulation might be toxic to H. pluvialis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Astaxanthin is a carotenoid known for its strong antioxidant and health-promoting characteristics, but it is also highly degradable and thus unsuited for several applications. We developed a sustainable method for the extraction and the production of stable astaxanthin microencapsulates. Nearly 2% astaxanthin was extracted by high-pressure homogenization of dried Haematococcus pluvialis cells in soybean oil. Astaxanthin-enriched oil was encapsulated in alginate and low-methoxyl pectin by Ca2+-mediated vibrating-nozzle extrusion technology. The 3% pectin microbeads resulted the best compromise between sphericity and oil retention upon drying. We monitored the stability of these astaxanthin beads under four different conditions of light, temperature and oxygen exposition. After 52weeks, the microbeads showed a total-astaxanthin retention of 94.1\xc2\xb14.1% (+4\xc2\xb0C/-light/+O2), 83.1\xc2\xb13.2% (RT/-light/-O2), 38.3\xc2\xb12.2% (RT/-light/+O2), and 57.0\xc2\xb10.4% (RT/+light/+O2), with different degradation kinetics. Refrigeration, therefore, resulted the optimal storage condition to preserve astaxanthin stability. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'To investigate processes possibly underlying accumulation and ecological effects of plastic nano-particles we have characterized their interaction with the cell wall of green algae. More specifically, we have investigated the influence of particle surface functionality and water hardness (Ca2+concentration) on particle adsorption to algae cell walls. Polystyrene nanoparticles with different functional groups (non-functionalized, -COOH and -NH2) as well as coated (starch and PEG) gold nanoparticles were applied in these studies. Depletion measurements and atomic force microscopy (AFM) showed that adsorption of neutral and positively charged plastic nanoparticles onto the cell wall of P. subcapitata was stronger than that of negatively charged plastic particles. Results indicated that binding affinity is a function of both inter-particle and particle-cell wall interactions which are in turn influenced by the medium hardness and particle concentration. Physicochemical modelling using DLVO theory was used to interpret the experimental data, using also values for interfacial surface free energies. Our study shows that material properties and medium conditions play a crucial role in the rate and state of nanoparticle bio-adsorption for green algae. The results show that the toxicity of nanoparticles can be better described and assessed by using appropriate dose metrics including material properties, complexation/agglomeration behavior and cellular attachment and adsorption. The applied methodology provides an efficient and feasible approach for evaluating potential accumulation and hazardous effects of nanoparticles to algae caused by particle interactions with the algae cell walls. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The synthesis of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) via green route, using biological entities is an area of interest, because one of the potential applications in the nanomedicine. In the present study, we have developed photo-induced, ecofriendly, low cost method for biosynthesis of the stable silver nanoparticles using aqueous extract of Dunaliella salina (AED) which act as both reducing as well as stabilizing agent. Biosynthesis of the AgNPs was optimized as: sunlight exposure (30min), AED (5% (v/v)) and AgNO3(4mM). Biosynthesis of AgNPs was monitored by using UV-Vis spectroscopy which exhibited sharp SPR band at 430nm after 30min of bright sunlight exposure. SEM and TEM analyses confirmed the presence of spherical AgNPs with average size of 15.26nm. Crystalline nature of AgNPs was confirmed by SAED and XRD analyses where Braggs reflection pattern at (111), (200), (220) and (311) corresponded to face centered cubic crystal lattice of metallic silver. FTIR analysis revealed the involvement of various functional groups present in AED. AFM analysis confirmed the average surface roughness of synthesized AgNPs as 8.48nm. AgNPs were also screened for anticancer potential using assay of calcein AM/PI, Annexin/PI and cancer biomarkers against cancer cell line (MCF-7), while normal cell line (MCF-10A) were kept as control. Interestingly, anticancer potential was comparable to the known anticancer drug (Cisplatin), and was not detrimental to the normal cell line. Therefore, such green synthesized AgNPs may be explored as anticancer agent. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'To access better removal of nutrients with algae-based techniques, a dominant alga from real municipal wastewater was identified and its capacity in removing low concentrations of nitrogen (NH+4or NO-3) and phosphorus (PO3-4) was evaluated. Results showed that Oedogonium brevicingulatum, a filamentous green alga, was confirmed as the dominant alga in the secondary effluent of a municipal wastewater treatment plant by polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Low concentrations of NH+4or NO-3(\xe2\x89\xa45 mg N L-1) and PO3-4(\xe2\x89\xa40.5 mg P L-1) were 100% removed by the algae in a 7-d test. The maximum nutrient removal rate (Vmax) and the half-saturation constant (Km) for NH+4(10.03 \xc2\xb1 0.95 mg g-1d-1and 0.19 \xc2\xb1 0.03 mg L-1) and NO-3(8.43 \xc2\xb1 0.21 mg g-1d-1and 0.27 \xc2\xb1 0.11 mg L-1) indicated the uptake capability for NH+4is higher than that for NO-3. Meanwhile, it showed higher affinity for PO3-4(Vmax: 1.42 \xc2\xb1 0.02 mg g-1d-1; Km: 0.02 \xc2\xb1 0.00 mg L-1) with NH+4as nitrogen source than that (Vmax: 1.24 \xc2\xb1 0.15 mg g-1d-1; Km: 0.06 \xc2\xb1 0.03 mg L-1) with NO-3as nitrogen source. Moreover, nutrient removal efficiencies were observed steady when nitrogen/phosphorus ratio ranged from 5:1 to 20:1. These results suggest that the dominant algae from municipal wastewater have potentials to be applied in nutrient removal. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The present work evaluated the use of ultrasound as a pre-treatment to lipid and carotenoid extraction from the microalgae Heterochlorella luteoviridis. The pre-treatment was performed in the presence of ethanol (25%, v/v) with the ultrasound intensity varying from 0 to 100% (435kJkg-1). After the pre-treatment, a diffusive step was performed in order to evaluate different ethanol concentrations (50-75%, v/v). The results regarding carotenoid extraction showed that there is an optimal extraction region: 40-80% of ultrasound intensity and 60-75% of ethanol concentration. The lipid extraction was not influenced by the ultrasound pre-treatment and increased with the increase of ethanol concentration. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this study was to reveal the taxonomic position and phylogenetic relationships of the dominant planktic algae in two acid metal-rich lakes of different origin (Hromnice Lake and Ple\xc5\xa1n\xc3\xa9 Lake, Czech Republic) and to investigate their morphology and ultrastructure under natural and laboratory conditions. Phylogenetic analyses (18S rRNA and ITS-2) revealed that the strain isolated from Hromnice Lake belongs to the species Coccomyxa elongata, while Coccomyxa from Ple\xc5\xa1n\xc3\xa9 Lake was described as a new species C. silvae-gabretae. It is the first evidence that representatives of this genus are capable of becoming the dominant primary producers in the extreme environment of acid lakes with an increased supply of phosphorus. There were clear differences in cell morphology under different growth conditions, revealing the high phenotypic plasticity of the strains. The ability to change the morphology may help the cells of Coccomyxa to survive harsh conditions in the aforementioned acid lakes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Several cosmopolitan marine picoeukaryotic phytoplankton are B1 auxotrophs requiring exogenous vitamin B1 or precursor to survive. From genomic evidence, representatives of picoeukaryotic phytoplankton (Ostreococcus and Micromonas spp.) were predicted to use known thiazole and pyrimidine B1 precursors to meet their B1 demands, however, recent culture-based experiments could not confirm this assumption. We hypothesized these phytoplankton strains could grow on precursors alone, but required a thiazole-related precursor other the well-known and extensively tested 4-methyl-5-thiazoleethanol. This hypothesis was tested using bioassays and co-cultures of picoeukaryotic phytoplankton and bacteria. We found that specific B1-synthesizing proteobacteria and phytoplankton are sources of a yet-to-be chemically identified thiazole-related precursor(s) that, along with pyrimidine B1 precursor 4-amino-5-hydroxymethyl-2-methylpyrimidine, can support growth of Ostreococcus spp. (also Micromonas spp.) without B1. We additionally found that the B1-synthesizing plankton do not require contact with picoeukaryotic phytoplankton cells to produce thiazole-related precursor(s). Experiments with wild-type and genetically engineered Ostreococcus lines revealed that the thiazole kinase, ThiM, is required for growth on precursors, and that thiazole-related precursor(s) accumulate to appreciable levels in the euphotic ocean. Overall, our results point to thiazole-related B1 precursors as important micronutrients promoting the survival of abundant phytoplankton influencing surface ocean production and biogeochemical cycling. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Graphene oxide (GO), a recently discovered material, has been investigated for many applications in various fields. Thus, an immense awareness should be paid on the potential effects of the material on the environment as huge quantities of GO may get to the environment. Aquatic organisms, marine algae as an example, are exposed to such material when disposed to the environment. Accordingly, it is significant to assess the probable interactions of GO with algae in evaluating its possible environmental risks. In this study, we have examined the effect of different concentrations of GO on Picochlorum sp. during the different growth phases. The results showed that the toxicity of GO increases with increasing its concentration. The lowest concentration (0.5\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1) was found to improve the algae growth and pigment content of Picochlorum sp. In contrast, higher GO concentrations had a negative consequence on the growth of algae and photosynthetic pigment concentration. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The loss of photosynthesis is frequently associated with parasitic or pathogenic lifestyles, but it also can occur in free-living, plastid-bearing lineages. A common consequence of becoming nonphotosynthetic is the reduction in size and gene content of the plastid genome. In exceptional circumstances, it can even result in the complete loss of the plastid DNA (ptDNA) and its associated gene expression system, as reported recently in several lineages, including the nonphotosynthetic green algal genus Polytomella Closely related to Polytomella is the polyphyletic genus Polytoma, the members of which lost photosynthesis independently of Polytomella Species from both genera are free-living organisms that contain nonphotosynthetic plastids, but unlike Polytomella, Polytoma members have retained a genome in their colorless plastid. Here, we present the plastid genome of Polytoma uvella: to our knowledge, the first report of ptDNA from a nonphotosynthetic chlamydomonadalean alga. The P. uvella ptDNA contains 25 protein-coding genes, most of which are related to gene expression and none are connected to photosynthesis. However, despite its reduced coding capacity, the P. uvella ptDNA is inflated with short repeats and is tens of kilobases larger than the ptDNAs of its closest known photosynthetic relatives, Chlamydomonas leiostraca and Chlamydomonas applanata In fact, at approximately 230 kb, the ptDNA of P. uvella represents the largest plastid genome currently reported from a nonphotosynthetic alga or plant. Overall, the P. uvella and Polytomella plastid genomes reveal two very different evolutionary paths following the loss of photosynthesis: expansion and complete deletion, respectively. We hypothesize that recombination-based DNA-repair mechanisms are at least partially responsible for the different evolutionary outcomes observed in such closely related nonphotosynthetic algae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this study was to determine if polycultures of algae could enhance tolerance to aqueous-phase coproduct (ACP) from hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of algal biomass to produce biocrude. The growth of algal monocultures and polycultures was characterized across a range ACP concentrations and sources. All of the monocultures were either killed or inhibited by 2% ACP, but polycultures of the same species were viable at up to 10%. The addition of ACP increased the growth rate (up to 25%) and biomass production (53%) of polycultures, several of which were more productive in ACP than any monoculture was in the presence or absence of ACP. These results suggest that a cultivation process that applies biodiversity to nutrient recycling could produce more algae with less fertilizer consumption. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: The increasing demand for microalgae lipids as an alternative to fish has encouraged researchers to explore oleaginous microalgae for food uses. In this context, optimization of growth and lipid production by the marine oleaginous V2-strain-microalgae is of great interest as it contains large amounts of mono-unsaturated (MUFAs) and poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs).METHODS: In this study, the isolated V2strain was identified based on 23S rRNA gene. Growth and lipid production conditions were optimized by using the response surface methodology in order to maximize its cell growth and lipid content that was quantified by both flow cytometry and the gravimetric method. The intracellular lipid bodies were detected after staining with Nile red by epifluorescence microscopy. The fatty acid profile of optimal culture conditions was determined by gas chromatography coupled to a flame ionization detector.RESULTS: The phenotypic and phylogenetic analyses showed that the strain V2was affiliated to Tetraselmis genus. The marine microalga is known as an interesting oleaginous species according to its high lipid production and its fatty acid composition. The optimization process showed that maximum cell abundance was achieved under the following conditions: pH: 7, salinity: 30 and photosynthetic light intensity (PAR): 133\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol photons.m-2.s-1. In addition, the highest lipid content\xc2\xa0(49\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.1% dry weight) was obtained at pH: 7, salinity: 37.23 and photosynthetic light intensity (PAR): 188\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol photons.m-2.s-1. The fatty acid profile revealed the presence of 39.2% and 16.1% of total fatty acids of mono-unsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), respectively. Omega 3 (\xcf\x893), omega 6 (\xcf\x896) and omega 9 (\xcf\x899) represented 5.28%, 8.12% and 32.8% of total fatty acids, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: This study showed the successful optimization of salinity, light intensity and pH for highest growth, lipid production and a good fatty acid composition, making strain V2highly suitable for food and nutraceutical applications. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The disintegration of three industry relevant algae (Chlorella vulgaris, Neochloris oleoabundans and Tetraselmis suecica) was studied in a lab scale bead mill at different bead sizes (0.3-1mm). Cell disintegration, proteins and carbohydrates released into the water phase followed a first order kinetics. The process is selective towards proteins over carbohydrates during early stages of milling. In general, smaller beads led to higher kinetic rates, with a minimum specific energy consumption of \xe2\xa9\xbd0.47kWhkgDW-1for 0.3mm beads. After analysis of the stress parameters (stress number and stress intensity), it appears that optimal disintegration and energy usage for all strains occurs in the 0.3-0.4mm range. During the course of bead milling, the native structure of the marker protein Rubisco was retained, confirming the mildness of the disruption process. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The potential of an algal-bacterial system consisting of a high rate algal pond (HRAP) interconnected to an absorption column (AC) via recirculation of the cultivation broth for the upgrading of biogas and digestate was investigated. The influence of the gas-liquid flow configuration in the AC on the photosynthetic biogas upgrading process was assessed. AC operation in a co-current configuration enabled to maintain a biomass productivity of 15gm-2d-1, while during counter-current operation biomass productivity decreased to 8.7\xc2\xb10.5gm-2d-1as a result of trace metal limitation. A bio-methane composition complying with most international regulatory limits for injection into natural gas grids was obtained regardless of the gas-liquid flow configuration. Furthermore, the influence of the recycling liquid to biogas flowrate (L/G) ratio on bio-methane quality was assessed under both operational configurations obtaining the best composition at an L/G ratio of 0.5 and co-current flow operation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Consumers can have strong effects on the biotic and abiotic dynamics of spatially-structured ecosystems. In metacommunities, dispersing consumers can alter local assembly dynamics either directly through trophic interactions or indirectly by modifying local environmental conditions. In aquatic systems, very little is known about how key grazers, such as Daphnia, structure the microbial diversity of metacommunities and influence bacterial-mediated ecosystem functions. In an outdoor mesocosm experiment with replicate metacommunities (two 300\xc2\xa0L mesocosms), we tested how the presence and absence of Daphnia and the initial density of the microbial community (manipulated via dilution) influenced the diversity and community structure of algae and bacteria, and several ecosystem properties (e.g., pH, dissolved substances) and functions (e.g., enzyme activity, respiration). We found that Daphnia strongly affected the local and regional diversity of both phytoplankton and bacteria, the taxonomic composition of bacterial communities, the biomass of algae, and ecosystem metabolism (i.e., respiration). Diluting the microbial inoculum (0.2-5\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm size fraction) to the metacommunities increased local phytoplankton diversity, decreased bacteria beta-diversity, and changed the relative abundance of bacterial classes. Changes in the rank abundance of different bacterial groups exhibited phylogenetic signal, implying that closely related bacteria species might share similar responses to the presence of Daphnia. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of phosphate fertilization on chemical speciation of cadmium (Cd) in the rhizospheric soil of Chlorophytum comosum, a potential cadmium hyperaccumulator. The results revealed that when 200\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1phosphate was applied into the soil, the Cd contents in the exchangeable fraction (EXC), carbonate-binding fraction (CA), and Fe-Mn oxides-binding fraction (Fe-Mn) were the highest, and the Cd content in the residual fraction (RES) was the lowest. Phosphate fertilization could enhance Cd conversion from RES into CA and weak RES, thereby improving the bioavailability of Cd and enhancing Cd enrichment and adsorption by C. comosum. The total Cd content in the soil was reduced by 10.15\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1in the planted group, which was significantly different from the control group (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01). The highest bioaccumulation coefficient (BC) values in root and aboveground parts appeared when the phosphate rates were 276 and 217\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1, whereas the highest translocation factor (TF) occurred with a phosphate rate of 188\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg-1. Phosphate fertilization facilitated phytoremediation of Cd-polluted soil by C. comosum. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In recent decades, increasing frequency and intensity of saltwater intrusion in the Modaomen Channel has threatened the freshwater supply in the surrounding cities of the Pearl River Estuary, and ulteriorly changed the environmental conditions of the estuarine waters. Phytoplankton biomass, primary production (PP) and species composition, as well as hydrological and chemical parameters were examined along a downstream transect in the Modaomen Channel during neap tide (NT) and spring tide (ST), when a strong saltwater intrusion event occurred in late September, 2011. A total of 46 species phytoplankton were identified, including Bacillariophyta (25 species), Dinoflagellate (14 species), Chlorophyta (4 species), Cyanophyta (2 species) and Euglenozoa (1 species). The dominant species were shifted from freshwater diatoms (e.g., Melosira granulata and Melosira granulata var. angustissima) in the upper reaches to saline water diatoms (e.g., Skeletonema costatum and Coscinodiscus sp.) in the river mouth. Generally, phytoplankton density, biomass (chl-a) and PP decreased from the upper to lower reaches along the channel, and were significantly higher in NT than those of ST. There was a shift from large-sized phytoplankton (>20 \xce\xbcm) in the upper reaches to relative small-sized cells (5-20 \xce\xbcm) in the lower reaches. Compared to NT, low discharge and flow velocity, coupled with strong easterly winds during ST specially aggravated saltwater intrusion further to the upstream (~50 km from the estuary). The intruded saltwater diluted nutrients, N/P ratios, chl-a, and phytoplankton abundances, and thereby led to a decline in PP during ST. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We tested the potential of a miniaturized Raman spectrometer for use in field detection of snow algae pigments. A miniature Raman spectrometer, equipped with an excitation laser at 532\xe2\x80\x89nm, allowed for the detection of carotenoids in cells of Chloromonas nivalis and Chlamydomonas nivalis at different stages of their life cycle. Astaxanthin, the major photoprotective pigment, was detected in algal blooms originating in snows at two alpine European sites that differed in altitude (Krkono\xc5\xa1e Mts., Czech Republic, 1502\xe2\x80\x89m a.s.l., and \xc3\x96tztal Alps, Austria, 2790\xe2\x80\x89m a.s.l.). Comparison is made with a common microalga exclusively producing astaxanthin (Haematococcus pluvialis). The handheld Raman spectrometer is a useful tool for fast and direct field estimations of the presence of carotenoids (mainly astaxanthin) within blooms of snow algae. Application of miniature Raman instruments as well as flight prototypes in areas where microbes are surviving under extreme conditions is an important stage in preparation for successful deployment of this kind of instrumentation in the framework of forthcoming astrobiological missions to Mars. Key Words: Snow algae-Chloromonas nivalis-Chlamydomonas nivalis-On-site field detection-Raman spectroscopy-Astaxanthin. Astrobiology 16, 913-924. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Due to its superior antioxidant capabilities and higher activity than other carotenoids, astaxanthin is used widely in the nutraceutical and medicine industries. The most prolific natural producer of astaxanthin is the unicellular green microalga Haematococcus pluvialis. The correct identification of any contaminants in H. pluvialis cultures is both essential and nontrivial for several reasons. Firstly, while it is possible to distinguish the main microalgal contaminant Coelastrella sp. (in H. pluvialis cultures), in practice, it is frequently a daunting and error-prone task for personnel without extensive experience in the microscopic identification of algal species. Secondly, the undetected contaminants may decrease or stop production of astaxanthin. Lastly, the presence of other contaminants such as fungi can eventually infect and destroy the whole algae collection. In this study, high-resolution melting (HRM) analysis was developed to detect microalgal and fungal contamination. The developed diagnostic procedure allowed to distinguish pure H. pluvialis samples from cultures contaminated with low amounts (1.25\xc2\xa0ng/ml) of microalgal DNA and fungal DNA (2.5\xc2\xa0ng/ml). Such discrimination is not possible with the use of microscopy observations and allows fast and efficient collection testing. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this study was to assess the phylogenetic relationships, ecology and ecophysiological characteristics of the dominant planktic algae in ice-covered lakes on James Ross Island (northeastern Antarctic Peninsula). Phylogenetic analyses of 18S rDNA together with analysis of ITS2 rDNA secondary structure and cell morphology revealed that the two strains belong to one species of the genus Monoraphidium (Chlorophyta, Sphaeropleales, Selenastraceae) that should be described as new in future. Immotile green algae are thus apparently capable to become the dominant primary producer in the extreme environment of Antarctic lakes with extensive ice-cover. The strains grew in a wide temperature range, but the growth was inhibited at temperatures above 20\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, indicating their adaptation to low temperature. Preferences for low irradiances reflected the light conditions in their original habitat. Together with relatively high growth rates (0.4-0.5\xc2\xa0day-1) and unprecedently high content of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA, more than 70% of total fatty acids), it makes these isolates interesting candidates for biotechnological applications. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study investigated if an effluent from anaerobic digestion (AD) system can be used as a nutrients source for the microalgae cultivation, and in so doing, if the effluent can be properly treated. Nitrogen and phosphorus in the AD effluent well supported microalgal growth, and their removal efficiency reached>97.9% and 99.2%, respectively. Among four different algal species tested, Micractinium inermum particularly stood out, showing the highest biomass and FAME productivity: 0.16gL-1d-1with 3.23gL-1of dry cell weight, and 0.04gL-1d-1with 27.54% (w/w) of FAME contents, respectively. As the concentrations of the nutrients decreased over time, the FAME contents were increased and its quality as well, satisfying several biodiesel quality standards. This study supports that the AD effluent can indeed serve as a cheap and nutrient-rich medium for microalgae cultivation, and equally importantly, microalgae can be a workable treatment option for it. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Vanadium (V) is an abundant trace metal present in bitumen from the Athabasca Oil Sands (AOS) region in Alberta, Canada. The upgrading of bitumen can result in the production of large volumes of a carbonaceous material referred to as petroleum coke that contains V at elevated levels compared to the native bitumen. Previous studies have shown that coke has the capacity to leach ecotoxicologically relevant levels of V into water it contacts, yet limited data are available on the toxicity of aqueous V to planktonic organisms. Therefore, this study set out to evaluate the acute and chronic toxicity of V (as vanadate oxyanions) to freshwater zooplankton and phytoplankton species that are either commonly-used laboratory species, or species more regionally-representative of northern Alberta. Four cladoceran (2-d and 21-d tests) and two algal (3-d tests) species were exposed to V to obtain both acute and chronic toxicity estimates. Acute V toxicity (LC50s) ranged from 0.60mgV/L for Ceriodaphnia quadrangula to 2.17mgV/L for Daphnia pulex. Chronic toxicity estimates (EC50s) for cladoceran survival and reproduction were nearly identical within species and ranged from a low of 0.13 to a high of 0.46mgV/L for Daphnia dentifera and D. pulex, respectively. The lack of sublethal V toxicity in daphnia suggests a direct mechanism of toxicity through ion imbalance. Growth inhibition (EC50) of green algae occurred at concentrations of 3.24 and 4.12mgV/L for Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and Scenedesmus quadricauda, respectively. Overall, cladocerans were more sensitive to V than green algae, with survival of the field-collected D. dentifera being approximately 2.5 to 3.5 times more sensitive to acute and chronic V exposure than the standard test species D. pulex. However, there were no significant differences in V toxicity between the field-collected cladocerans Simocephalus serrulatus and C. quadrangula, compared to the respective standard species D. pulex and Ceriodaphnia dubia. Similarly, there were no significant differences in sensitivity to V in the two algal species evaluated. Based on V concentrations reported in laboratory-generated coke leachates, zooplankton survival could be adversely impacted under conditions of chronic leachate exposure if V concentrations in the environment exceed 0.1mg/L. Furthermore, toxicity thresholds from commonly-used planktonic test species would likely have sufficed for derivation of a V water quality guideline (WQG) for protection of local aquatic communities near oil sands operations, but the new data presented here on V toxicity to more regionally-representative species will strengthen the database for WQG derivation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the effectiveness of cultivating Parachlorella kessleri and Acutodesmus obliquus, in anaerobic digestion effluent (ADE) derived from the co-digestion of end-of-life dairy products with mixtures of agro-industrial wastes. To this end, their performance under sterile and non-sterile conditions and different ADE loadings was evaluated, in terms of biomass and lipid production, nutrient removal efficiency and vitality of the photosynthetic apparatus. 10% (v/v) ADE loading inhibited growth over 9-12days of cultivation, however biomass yields of 1.1 and 1gL-1, 22.7% and 19.5% (w/w) fatty acids concentration, as well as NH3-N assimilation of 49.7mgL-1and 32.3mgL-1and TP removal of 84.2% and 84% were recorded for P. kessleri and A. obliquus, respectively. Among all the ADE-based treatments tested, P. kessleri outperformed A. obliquus, with no differences observed between sterilized and non-sterilized ADE. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study investigated the dynamic variations in thiol compounds, including cysteine (Cys), glutathione (GSH), and phytochelatins (PCs), in Dunaliella salina samples exposed to arsenite [As(III)] and arsenate [As(V)]under various phosphate (PO43-) regimes. Our results showed that GSH was the major non-protein sulfhydryl compound in D. salina cells. As(III) and As(V) induced PC syntheses in D. salina. PC2, PC3, and PC4were all found in algal cells; the PC concentrations decreased gradually while exposed to As for 3 d. The synthesis of PC2-3was significantly affected by As(III) and As(V) concentrations in the cultures. More PCs were detected in the As(V)-treated algal cells compared with the As(III) treatment. PC levels increased with As(III)/As(V) amount in the medium, but remained stable after 112\xce\xbcgL-1As(V) exposure. In contrast, significant (p<0.001) positive correlations were observed between PC synthesis and intracellular As(III) content or As accumulation in As(III)-treated algal cells during the 72-h exposure. PO43-had a significant influence on the PC synthesis in algal cells, irrespective of the As-treated species. Reductions in As uptake and subsequent PC synthesis by D. salina were observed as the PO43-concentration in the growth medium increased. L-Buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) differentially influenced PC synthesis in As-treated D. salina under different extracellular PO43-regimes. Overall, our data demonstrated that the production of GSH and PCs was affected by PO43-and that these thiols played an important role in As detoxification by D. salina. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Recently, there is a growing interest towards the development of strategies for invasive seaweed control and exploitation as source of secondary metabolites. Here, we investigated the potential of exploitation in biotechnology and recycling options in eradication programs of the lipidic extract of the Mediterranean invasive seaweedCaulerpa cylindracea(Chlorophyta). The chemical characterization was carried out by means of multinuclear and multidimensional NMR spectroscopy. The fatty acid profile ofC. cylindraceaassessed the presence of several types of molecules known for antioxidant activity such as carotenoids, chlorophylls, pheophytins, and sterols. The NMR spectroscopy showed also the characteristic signals of saturated, unsaturated, and free fatty acids as well as other metabolites including the biopolymer polyhydroxybutyrate. The lipidic extract exerted an antioxidant activity corresponding to 552.14 \xc2\xb1 69.13 mmol Trolox equivalent/g (ORAC) and to 70.3 \xc2\xb1 2.67 mmol Trolox equivalent/g (TEAC). The extract showed an antibacterial activity against severalVibriospecies, suggesting its potential use in the control of diseases in mariculture. Our results show thatC. cylindracea, representing a critical hazard in coastal areas, could be transformed into a gain supporting specific management actions to reduce the effects of human pressures. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In upstream reaches, epilithic algae are one of the major primary producers and their biomass may alter the energy flow of food webs in stream ecosystems. However, the overgrowth of epilithic algae may deteriorate water quality. In this study, the effects of environmental variables on epilithic algal biomass were examined at 5 monitoring sites in mountain streams of the Wuling basin of subtropical Taiwan over a 5-year period (2006-2011) by using a generalized additive model (GAM). Epilithic algal biomass and some variables observed at pristine sites obviously differed from those at the channelized stream with intensive agricultural activity. The results of the optimal GAM showed that water temperature, turbidity, current velocity, dissolved oxygen (DO), pH, and ammonium-N (NH4-N) were the main factors explaining seasonal variations of epilithic algal biomass in the streams. The change points of smoothing curves for velocity, DO, NH4-N, pH, turbidity, and water temperature were approximately 0.40 m s-1, 8.0 mg L-1, 0.01 mg L-1, 8.5, 0.60 NTU, and 15\xc2\xb0C, respectively. When aforementioned variables were greater than relevant change points, epilithic algal biomass was increased with pH and water temperature, and decreased with water velocity, DO, turbidity, and NH4-N. These change points may serve as a framework for managing the growth of epilithic algae. Understanding the relationship between environmental variables and epilithic algal biomass can provide a useful approach for maintaining the functioning in stream ecosystems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cells of the unicellular green alga, "Pseudochoricystis ellipsoidea", were uniformly spread on a cellulosic sheet or on a polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) membrane sheet superimposed on a cellulosic sheet at a density of 3.5-5.0gdry weight per m2, and the sheet was adhered to an inverted V-shaped acrylic plate of 10cm in height. Several acrylic plates were placed side by side on a tray containing liquid medium at a depth of 0.6cm, and illuminated from above with a light intensity of 300-340\xce\xbcmolm-2s-1. Water and nutrients were supplied to cells by capillary action through the cellulosic sheet. Footprint biomass productivities of cells grown in atmospheric CO2on this photobioreactor were 8-10gm-2day-1. This cultivation system is strongly energy- and labor-saving as it does not require mixing of culture fluid, irrigation of medium, and delivery of CO2-enriched air. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The high lipid diversity of microalgae has been used to taxonomically differentiate phytoplankton taxa at the class level. However, important lipids such as phospholipids (PL) and betaine lipids (BL) with potential chemotaxonomy application in phytoplankton ecology have been scarcely studied. The chemotaxonomy value of PL and BL depends on their intraspecific extent of variation as microalgae respond to external changing factors. To determine such effects, lipid class changes occurring at different growth stages in 15 microalgae from ten different classes were analyzed. BL occurred in 14 species and were the less affected lipids by growth stage with diacylglyceryl-hydroxymethyl-N,N,N-trimethyl-b-alanine (DGTA) showing the highest stability. PL were more influenced by growth stage with phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylglycerol (PG), and phosphatidyletanolamine (PE) declining towards older culture stages in some species. Glycolipids were the more common lipids, and no evident age-related variability pattern could be associated to taxonomic diversity. Selecting BL and PL as descriptor variables optimally distinguished microalgae taxonomic variability at all growth stages. Principal coordinate analysis arranged species through a main tendency from diacylglyceryl-hydroxymethyl-N,N,N-trimethyl-b-alanine (DGCC) containing species (mainly dinoflagellates and haptophytes) to DGTA or PC containing species (mainly cryptophytes). Two diatom classes with similar fatty acid profiles could be distinguished from their respective content in DGTA (Bacillariophyceae) or DGCC (Mediophyceae). In green lineage classes (Trebouxiophyceae, Porphyridophyceae, and Chlorodendrophyceae), PC was a better descriptor than BL. BL and PL explained a higher proportion of microalgae taxonomic variation than did fatty acids and played a complementary role as lipid markers. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Volvocine algae, which range from the unicellular Chlamydomonas to the multicellular Volvox with a germ-soma division of labor, are a model for the evolution of multicellularity. Within this group, the spheroidal colony might have evolved in two independent lineages: Volvocaceae and the goniacean Astrephomene. Astrephomene produces spheroidal colonies with posterior somatic cells. The feature that distinguishes Astrephomene from the volvocacean algae is lack of inversion during embryogenesis; the volvocacean embryo undergoes inversion after successive divisions to orient flagella toward the outside. The mechanisms of inversion at the molecular and cellular levels in volvocacean algae have been assessed in detail, particularly in Volvox carteri. However, embryogenesis in Astrephomene has not been subjected to such investigations.RESULTS: This study relied on light microscopy time-lapse imaging using an actively growing culture of a newly established strain to conduct a developmental analysis of Astrephomene as well as to perform a comparison with the similar spheroidal volvocacean Eudorina. During the successive divisions involved in Astrephomene embryogenesis, gradual rotation of daughter protoplasts resulted in movement of their apical portions toward the embryonic posterior, forming a convex-to-spheroidal cell sheet with the apical ends of protoplasts on the outside. Differentiation of the posterior somatic cells from the embryo periphery was traced based on cell lineages during embryogenesis. In contrast, in Eudorina, the rotation of daughter protoplasts did not occur during successive cell divisions; however, inversion occurred after such divisions, and a spheroidal embryo was formed. Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy of basal bodies and nuclei verified this difference between Astrephomene and Eudorina in the movement of embryonic protoplasts.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest different tactics for spheroidal colony formation between the two lineages: rotation of daughter protoplasts during successive cell divisions in Astrephomene, and inversion after cell divisions in Eudorina. This study will facilitate further research into the molecular and genetic mechanisms of the parallel evolution of the spheroidal colony in volvocine algae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Understanding body size-dependent metal accumulation in aquatic organisms (i.e., metal allometry) is critical in interpreting biomonitoring data. While growth has received the most attention, little is known about controls of metal exposure routes on metal allometry. Here, size-dependent Cd accumulation in zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) from different routes were investigated by exposing mussels to A.(111Cd spiked algae+113Cd spiked river water) or B.(111Cd spiked sediments+113Cd spiked river water). After exposure,111Cd or113Cd levels in mussel tissue were found to be negatively correlated with tissue weight, while Cd allometry coefficients (b values) were dependent on Cd exposure routes:\xc2\xa0-0.664 for algae,\xc2\xa0-0.241 for sediments and\xc2\xa0-0.379 for river water, compared to\xc2\xa0-0.582 in un-exposed mussels. By comparing different Cd exposure routes, we found that size-dependent Cd bioaccumulation from algae or river water could be more responsible for the overall size-dependent Cd accumulation in mussels, and the relative importance of the two sources was dependent on mussel size ranges: Cadmium obtained from algae (algae-Cd) was more important in size-dependent Cd accumulation in smaller mussels (tissue dry weight\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa05\xc2\xa0mg), while river water-Cd became more important in larger individuals (tissue dry weight\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa05\xc2\xa0mg). In contrast, sediment-Cd contributed only a small amount to Cd accumulation in zebra mussels and may have little effect on size-dependent Cd bioaccumulation. Our results suggest that size-dependent Cd accumulation in mussels could be largely affected by exposure routes, which should be considered when trying to interpret Cd biomonitoring data of zebra mussels. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Periphyton relevance for methylmercury (MeHg) production and accumulation are now well known in aquatic ecosystems. Sulfate-reducing bacteria and other microbial groups were identified as the main MeHg producers, but the effect of periphyton algae on the accumulation and transfer of MeHg to the food web remains little studied. Here we investigated the role of specific groups of algae on MeHg accumulation in the periphyton of Schoenoplectus californicus ssp. (Totora) and Myriophyllum sp. in Uru Uru, a tropical high-altitude Bolivian lake with substantial fishing and mining activities accruing around it. MeHg concentrations were most strongly related to the cell abundance of the Chlorophyte genus Oedogonium (r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.783, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0126) and to no other specific genus despite the presence of other 34 genera identified. MeHg was also related to total chlorophyll-a (total algae) (r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.675, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0459), but relations were more significant with chlorophyte cell numbers, chlorophyll-b (chlorophytes), and chlorophyll-c (diatoms and dinoflagellates) (r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.72, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.028, r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.744, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0214, and r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.766, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0161 respectively). However, Oedogonium explains most variability of chlorophytes and chlorophyll-c (r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.856, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001 and r2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.619, p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002, respectively), suggesting it is the most influential group for MeHg accumulation and periphyton algae composition at this particular location and given time. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study investigates the production potential of bio-crude from wastewater treatment high rate algal pond (WWT HRAP) biomass in terms of yield, elemental/chemical composition and higher heating value (HHV). Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) of the biomass slurry (2.2wt% solid content, 19.7kJ/g HHV) was conducted at a range of temperatures (150-300\xc2\xb0C) for one hour. The bio-crude yield and HHV varied in range of 3.1-24.9wt% and 37.5-38.9kJ/g, respectively. The bio-crudes were comprised of 71-72.4wt% carbon, 0.9-4.8wt% nitrogen, 8.7-9.8wt% hydrogen and 12-15.7wt% oxygen. GC-MS analysis indicated that pyrroles, indoles, amides and fatty acids were the most abundant bio-crude compounds. HTL of WWT HRAP biomass resulted, also, in production of 10.5-26wt% water-soluble compounds (containing up to 293mg/L ammonia), 1.0-9.3wt% gas and 44.8-85.5wt% solid residue (12.2-18.1kJ/g). The aqueous phase has a great potential to be used as an ammonia source for further algal cultivation and the solid residue could be used as a process fuel source. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Although fluoride occurs naturally in the environment, excessive amounts of fluoride in freshwater and terrestrial ecosystems can be harmful. We evaluated the toxicity of fluoride compounds on the growth, viability, and photosynthetic capacity of freshwater (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata) and terrestrial (Chlorococcum infusionum) algae. To measure algal growth inhibition, a flow cytometric method was adopted (i.e., cell size, granularity, and auto-fluorescence measurements), and algal yield was calculated to assess cell viability. Rhodamine123 and fluorescein diacetate were used to evaluate mitochondrial membrane potential (MMA, \xce\x94\xce\xa8m) and cell permeability. Nine parameters related to the photosynthetic capacity of algae were also evaluated. The results indicated that high concentrations of fluoride compounds affected cell viability, cell organelle potential, and photosynthetic functions. The cell viability measurements of the three algal species decreased, but apoptosis was only observed in C.\xc2\xa0infusionum. The MMA (\xce\x94\xce\xa8m) of cells exposed to fluoride varied among species, and the cell permeability of the three species generally decreased. The decrease in the photosynthetic activity of algae may be attributable to the combination of fluoride ions (F-) with magnesium ions (Mg2+) in chlorophyll. Our results therefore provide strong evidence for the potential risks of fluoride compounds to microflora and microfauna in freshwater and terrestrial ecosystems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this study, R. opacus PD630, R. jostii RHA1, R. jostii RHA1 VanA-, and their co-culture were employed to convert hydrothermal liquefaction aqueous waste (HTLAW) into lipids. After 11days, the COD reduction of algal-HTLAW reached 93.4% and 92.7% by R. jostii RHA1 and its mutant VanA-, respectively. Woody-HTLAW promoted lipid accumulation of 0.43glipid/gcell dry weight in R. opacus PD630 cells. Additionally, the total number of chemicals in HTLAW decreased by over 1/3 after 7days of coculture, and 0.10g/L and 0.46g/L lipids were incrementally accumulated in the cellular mass during the fermentation of wood- and algal-HTLAW, respectively. The GC-MS data supported that different metabolism pathways were followed when these Rhodococci strains degraded algae- and woody-HTLAW. These results indicated promising potential of bioconversion of under-utilized carbon and toxic compounds in HTLAW into useful products by selected Rhodococci. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study aims to investigate the effects of different concentrations of cadmium (Cd) (0-800\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) on the growth, the photosynthetic performance, and the biochemical parameters of the Chlorophyta Picocystis sp. during 3 and 9\xc2\xa0days. Results showed that this exposure did not inhibit the Picocystis growth during the first 3\xc2\xa0days of treatment. Growth inhibition did not exceed 53%, which was recorded at high Cd concentrations (800\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) after nine exposure days. Moreover, no inhibitory effect on the Picocystis sp. photosynthesis has been recorded during the three exposure days regardless the Cd concentrations. Lipid peroxidation was significantly increased at high Cd concentrations (500 and 800\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) by 40 and 80%, respectively. Furthermore, the highest Cd concentration enhanced the thiol protein content, indicating no consequent protein oxidation. The exposure of Picocystis to Cd stimulated the antioxidant activities of catalase and ascorbate peroxidase. These results showed that Picocystis sp. has an impressive tolerance to Cd stress. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Textile dyes and their residues gained growing attention worldwide. Textile industry is a strong water consumer potentially releasing xenobiotics from washing and rinsing procedures during finishing processes. On a decentralised basis, also final consumers generate textile waste streams. Thus, a procedure simulating home washing with tap water screened cotton textiles leachates (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8928) considering physico-chemical (COD, BOD5, and UV absorbance) and ecotoxicological data (Daphnia magna, Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and Lepidium sativum). Results evidenced that: (i) leachates presented low biodegradability levels; (ii) toxicity in more than half leachates presented slight acute or acute effects; (iii) the remaining leachates presented "no effect" suggesting the use of green dyes/additives, and/or well established finishing processes; (iv) no specific correlations were found between traditional physico-chemical and ecotoxicological data. Further investigations will be necessary to identify textile residues, and their potential interactions with simulated human sweat in order to evidence potential adverse effects on human health. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The ability of a recent isolate, Tetraselmis sp. CTP4, for nutrient removal from sewage effluents before and after the nitrification process under batch and continuous cultivation was studied. Biomass productivities in both wastewaters were similar under continuous conditions (0.343\xc2\xb10.053gL-1d-1) and nutrient uptake rates were maximal 31.4\xc2\xb10.4mgNL-1d-1and 6.66\xc2\xb11.57mgP-PO43-L-1d-1in WW before nitrification when cultivated in batch. Among batch treatments, cellular protein, carbohydrate and lipid levels shifted with aging cultures from 71.7\xc2\xb16.3 to 29.2\xc2\xb11.2%, 17.4\xc2\xb17.2 to 57.2\xc2\xb13.9% and 10.9\xc2\xb11.7 to 13.7\xc2\xb14.7%, respectively. In contrast, CTP4 cultivated continuously in Algal medium (control) showed lower biomass productivities (0.282gVSSL-1d-1) although improved lipid content (up to 20% lipids) in batch cultivation. Overall, Tetraselmis sp. CTP4 is promising for WW treatment as a replacement of the costly nitrification process, fixating more nutrients and providing a protein and carbohydrate-rich biomass as by-product. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The study evaluated the growth of Desmodesmus communis on column photobioreactor and its thermochemical treatment by catalytic pyrolysis using HZSM-5 zeolite. D. communis showed good results in terms of growth (0.05gL-1d-1). Analytical pyrolysis of original algae and derived bio-oil mixed with zeolite was used as a screening method in order to gather information on the cracking process. Preparative pyrolysis on bench scale reactor was performed on algae biomass over a zeolite bed at 1:10 ratio (wt/wt). Py-GC-MS of biomass/catalyst mixture showed that the denitrogenation/deoxygenation increased with increasing zeolite load from 1:5 to 1:20 ratio and became significant at 1:10 ratio. The composition observed by analytical pyrolysis was featured by the predominance of alkylated monoaromatic hydrocarbons. The scaling-up to bench scale confirmed the results obtained with analytical pyrolysis in terms of monoaromatic hydrocarbons. However, low yield of catalytic oil (8% by weight) was observed. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Micro-algae of the genus Ostreococcus and related species of the order Mamiellales are globally distributed in the photic zone of world's oceans where they contribute to fixation of atmospheric carbon and production of oxygen, besides providing a primary source of nutrition in the food web. Their tiny size, simple cells, ease of culture, compact genomes and susceptibility to the most abundant large DNA viruses in the sea render them attractive as models for integrative marine biology. In culture, spontaneous resistance to viruses occurs frequently. Here, we show that virus-producing resistant cell lines arise in many independent cell lines during lytic infections, but over two years, more and more of these lines stop producing viruses. We observed sweeping over-expression of all genes in more than half of chromosome 19 in resistant lines, and karyotypic analyses showed physical rearrangements of this chromosome. Chromosome 19 has an unusual genetic structure whose equivalent is found in all of the sequenced genomes in this ecologically important group of green algae. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The discovery of introns four decades ago was one of the most unexpected findings in molecular biology. Introns are sequences interrupting genes that must be removed as part of messenger RNA production. Genome sequencing projects have shown that most eukaryotic genes contain at least one intron, and frequently many. Comparison of these genomes reveals a history of long evolutionary periods during which few introns were gained, punctuated by episodes of rapid, extensive gain. However, although several detailed mechanisms for such episodic intron generation have been proposed, none has been empirically supported on a genomic scale. Here we show how short, non-autonomous DNA transposons independently generated hundreds to thousands of introns in the prasinophyte Micromonas pusilla and the pelagophyte Aureococcus anophagefferens. Each transposon carries one splice site. The other splice site is co-opted from the gene sequence that is duplicated upon transposon insertion, allowing perfect splicing out of the RNA. The distributions of sequences that can be co-opted are biased with respect to codons, and phasing of transposon-generated introns is similarly biased. These transposons insert between pre-existing nucleosomes, so that multiple nearby insertions generate nucleosome-sized intervening segments. Thus, transposon insertion and sequence co-option may explain the intron phase biases and prevalence of nucleosome-sized exons observed in eukaryotes. Overall, the two independent examples of proliferating elements illustrate a general DNA transposon mechanism that can plausibly account for episodes of rapid, extensive intron gain during eukaryotic evolution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Although modes of action (MOAs) play a key role in the understanding of the toxic mechanism of chemicals, the MOAs have not been investigated for antibiotics to green algae. This paper is to discriminate excess toxicity from baseline level and investigate the MOAs of 13 different antibiotics to algae by using the determined toxicity values. Comparison of the toxicities shows that the inhibitors of protein synthesis to bacteria, such as azithromycin, doxycycline, florfenicol and oxytetracycline, exhibit significantly toxic effects to algae. On the other hand, the cell wall synthesis inhibitors, such as cefotaxime and amoxicillin, show relatively low toxic effects to the algae. The concentrations determined by HPLC indicate that quinocetone and amoxicillin can be easily photodegraded or hydrolyzed during the toxic tests. The toxic effects of quinocetone and amoxicillin to the algae are attributed to not only their parent compounds, but also their metabolites. Investigation on the mode of action shows that, except rifampicin, all the tested antibiotics exhibit excess toxicity to Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata (P.\xc2\xa0subcapitata). These antibiotics can be identified as reactive modes of action to the algae. They act as electrophilic mechanism of action to P.\xc2\xa0subcapitata. These results are valuable for the understanding of the toxic mechanism to algae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Prasinophytes clade VII is a group of pico/nano-planktonic green algae (division Chlorophyta) for which numerous ribosomal RNA (rRNA) sequences have been retrieved from the marine environment in the last 15 years. A large number of strains have also been isolated but have not yet received a formal taxonomic description. A phylogenetic analysis of available strains using both the nuclear 18S and plastidial 16S rRNA genes demonstrates that this group composes at least 10 different clades: A1-A7 and B1-B3. Analysis of sequences from the variable V9 region of the 18S rRNA gene collected during the Tara Oceans expedition and in the frame of the Ocean Sampling Day consortium reveal that clade VII is the dominant Chlorophyta group in oceanic waters, replacing Mamiellophyceae, which have this role in coastal waters. At some location, prasinophytes clade VII can even be the dominant photosynthetic eukaryote representing up to 80% of photosynthetic metabarcodes overall. B1 and A4 are the overall dominant clades and different clades seem to occupy distinct niches, for example, A6 is dominant in surface Mediterranean Sea waters, whereas A4 extend to high temperate latitudes. Our work demonstrates that prasinophytes clade VII constitute a highly diversified group, which is a key component of phytoplankton in open oceanic waters but has been neglected in the conceptualization of marine microbial diversity and carbon cycle. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The occurrence of antibiotics in surface waters has been reported worldwide with concentrations ranging from ng L-1to low \xc2\xb5g L-1levels. During environmental risk assessments, effects of antibiotics on algal species are assessed using standard test protocols (e.g., the OECD 201 guideline), where the cell number endpoint is used as a surrogate for growth. However, the use of photosynthetic related endpoints, such as oxygen evolution rate, and the assessment of effects on algal pigments could help to inform our understanding of the impacts of antibiotics on algal species. This study explored the effects of three major usage antibiotics (tylosin, lincomycin, and trimethoprim) on the growth and physiology of two chlorophytes (Desmodesmus subspicatus and Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata), a cyanobacteria (Anabaena flos-aquae), and a diatom (Navicula pelliculosa) using a battery of parameters, including cell density, oxygen evolution rate, total chlorophyll content, carotenoids, and the irradiance-photosynthesis relationship. The results indicated that photosynthesis of chlorophytes was a more sensitive endpoint than growth (i.e., EC50derived based on the effects of tylosin on the growth of D. subspicatus was 38.27 \xc2\xb5mol L-1compared with an EC50of 17.6 \xc2\xb5mol L-1based on photosynthetic rate), but the situation was reversed when testing cyanobacteria and the diatom (i.e., EC50derived based on the effects of tylosin on the growth of A. flos-aquae was 0.06 \xc2\xb5mol L-1; EC500.33 \xc2\xb5mol L-1based on photosynthetic rate). The pigment contents of algal cells were affected by the three antibiotics for D. subspicatus. However, in some cases, pigment content was stimulated for P. subcapitata, N. pelliculosa, and A. flos-aquae. The light utilization efficiency of chlorophytes and diatom was decreased markedly in the presence of antibiotics. The results demonstrated that the integration of these additional endpoints into existing standardised protocols could provide useful insights into the impacts of antibiotics on algal species. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Expressed sequence tag analyses revealed that two marine Chlorophyceae green algae, Chlamydomonas sp. W80 and Chlamydomonas sp. HS5, contain genes coding for chloroplastic class IIA aldolase (fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase: FBA). These genes show robust monophyly with those of the marine Prasinophyceae algae genera Micromonas, Ostreococcus and Bathycoccus, indicating that the acquisition of this gene through horizontal gene transfer by an ancestor of the green algal lineage occurred prior to the divergence of the core chlorophytes (Chlorophyceae and Trebouxiophyceae) and the prasinophytes. The absence of this gene in some freshwater chlorophytes, such as Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Volvox carteri, Chlorella vulgaris, Chlorella variabilis and Coccomyxa subellipsoidea, can therefore be explained by the loss of this gene somewhere in the evolutionary process. Our survey on the distribution of this gene in genomic and transcriptome databases suggests that this gene occurs almost exclusively in marine algae, with a few exceptions, and as such, we propose that chloroplastic class IIA FBA is a marine environment-adapted enzyme. This hypothesis was also experimentally tested using Chlamydomonas W80, for which we found that the transcript levels of this gene to be significantly lower under low-salt (that is, simulated terrestrial) conditions. Expression analyses of transcriptome data for two algae, Prymnesium parvum and Emiliania huxleyi, taken from the Sequence Read Archive database also indicated that the expression of this gene under terrestrial conditions (low NaCl and low sulfate) is significantly downregulated. Thus, these experimental and transcriptome data provide support for our hypothesis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Prasinophytes are a paraphyletic assemblage of nine heterogeneous lineages in the Chlorophyta clade of Archaeplastida. Until now, seven complete mitochondrial genomes have been sequenced from four prasinophyte lineages. Here, we report the mitochondrial genome of Pyramimonas parkeae, the first representative of the prasinophyte clade I. The circular-mapping molecule is 43,294\xc2\xa0bp long, AT rich (68.8%), very compact and it comprises two 6,671\xc2\xa0bp long inverted repeat regions. The gene content is slightly smaller than the gene-richest prasinophyte mitochondrial genomes. The single identified intron is located in the cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 gene (cox1). Interestingly, two exons of cox1 are encoded on the same strand of DNA in the reverse order and the mature mRNA is formed by trans-splicing. The phylogenetic analysis using the data set of 6,037 positions assembled from 34 mtDNA-encoded proteins of 48 green algae and plants is not in compliance with the branching order of prasinophyte clades revealed on the basis of 18S rRNA genes and cpDNA-encoded proteins. However, the phylogenetic analyses based on all three genomic elements support the sister position of prasinophyte clades Pyramimonadales and Mamiellales. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the carotenoid biosynthesis, lycopene \xce\xb2-cyclase (LCYb) is a key regulatory enzyme involved in the conversion of lycopene into \xce\xb2-carotene. Under stress conditions, such as high salinity, high light and nutrient deprivation, large amounts of \xce\xb2-carotene can be accumulated in Dunaliella bardawil. To study on the molecular responses of salt stress in D. bardawil is of great significance to reveal the mechanisms of salt tolerance and engineer crop plants to be salt-tolerant. In this study, the full-length coding sequence of lcyb from D. bardawil (Dblcyb, GenBank: KX218392) was isolated by transcriptome sequencing. Then, the genomic sequence, promoter and terminator regions of Dblcyb were isolated by genome walking. The Dblcyb promoter (GenBank: KX218393) contained several typical transcription boxes, multiple light response elements and a salt-regulated element (SRE, GT1GMSCAM4). Dbpsy and Dblcyb responsible for \xce\xb2-carotene biosynthesis in D. bardawil was shown to be up-regulated under salt stress and their promoters contained the common SRE. By element deletion analysis and using Ble-EGFP as the reporter, the salt-inducible SRE was confirmed to confer salt-induced expression of Dblcyb promoter. It was indicated that the salt-regulated expression of Dblcyb may be attributed to the salt-responsive element (GT1GMSCAM4) and the GT-rich region in its genomic sequence. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aims of the present study were (1) to develop a passive dosing approach for aquatic toxicity testing of liquid substances with very high Kowvalues and (2) to apply this approach to the model substance dodecylbenzene (DDB, Log Kow\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.65). The first step was to design a new passive dosing format for testing DDB exactly at its saturation limit. Silicone O-rings were saturated by direct immersion in pure liquid DDB, which resulted in swelling of>14%. These saturated O-rings were used to establish and maintain DDB exposure exactly at the saturation limit throughout 72-h algal growth inhibition tests with green algae Raphidocelis subcapitata. Growth rate inhibition at DDB solubility was 13\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa05% (95% CI) in a first and 8\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa03% (95% CI) in a repeated test, which demonstrated that improved exposure control can lead to good precision and repeatability of toxicity tests. This moderate toxicity at chemical activity of unity was higher than expected relative to a reported hydrophobicity cut-off in toxicity, but lower than expected relative to a reported chemical activity range for baseline toxicity. The present study introduces a new effective approach for toxicity testing of an important group of challenging chemicals, while providing a basis for investigating toxicity cut-off theories. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Symbiotic associations between green algae (Chlorophyta) and fungi give rise to morphologically and eco-physiologically distinct entities, or so-called, lichens. In one of the most peculiar of these associations, the partners are species of the macroscopic genus Prasiola (Trebouxiophyceae) and the ascomycete Mastodia tessellata (Verrucariaceae). This is the only known case of a lichen symbiosis involving a foliose green alga. Despite intense research targeted at understanding the biology of this particular association, little is known about the genetic variability of its symbionts. This study focuses on the photobiont partner of this lichen and was designed to explore and compare its genetic diversity along a latitudinal axis from Alaska to Antarctica. Molecular sequence data were generated for three loci: two nuclear markers (nrITS, RPL10A) and one plastid-encoded marker (tufA). The usefulness of the Prasiola nrITS and RPL10A data was examined at the species and intraspecific levels. We used the population assignment tests implemented in BAPS and STRUCTURE and two algorithmic species delimitation procedures (ABGD, GMYC) to generate species boundary discovery hypotheses, which were subsequently tested using Bayes factors. Population genetic differentiation and structure were also assessed through fixation indices, polymorphism statistics and haplotype networks. Based on the results of the species validation method, we propose that at least two species of Prasiola associate with the lichen-forming fungus Mastodia tessellata. Of these, P. borealis is broadly distributed in Alaska, Tierra del Fuego and the Antarctic Peninsula, whereas the second, undescribed, species is restricted to the Antarctic Peninsula. We detected significant phylogeographic substructure in P. borealis, including greater haplotype diversity in the Tierra del Fuego populations. Our findings provide new data that will be useful to unravel the cryptic diversity and phylogeographic patterns of the green alga partners of lichens. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Differences in the structure and functioning of intensively urbanized vs. less human-affected systems are reported, but such evidence is available for a much larger extent in terrestrial than in marine systems. We examined the hypotheses that (i) urbanization was associated to different patterns of variation of intertidal assemblages between urban and extra-urban environments; (ii) such patterns were consistent across mainland and insular systems, spatial scales from 10scm to 100skm, and a three months period. Several trends emerged: (i) a more homogeneous distribution of most algal groups in the urban compared to the extra-urban condition and the opposite pattern of most invertebrates; (ii) smaller/larger variances of most organisms where these were, respectively, less/more abundant; (iii) largest variability of most response variables at small scale; (iv) no facilitation of invasive species by urbanization and larger cover of canopy-forming algae in the insular extra-urban condition. Present findings confirm the acknowledged notion that future management strategies will require to include representative assemblages and their relevant scales of variation associated to urbanization gradients on both the mainland and the islands. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Copper is an essential metal for several physiological and metabolic processes, but a narrow range regulate its effect in phytoplankton cells. It can affect the production of biomolecules and be toxic at concentrations slightly above those required, e.g. decreasing photosynthesis and increasing respiration. The aims of this study were to analyse the changes in growth and chlorophyll a synthesis, and in biochemistry (total carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and fatty acids) of the freshwater microalga Selenastrum gracile after exposure to copper. Exponentially growing cells were exposed to 5 concentrations of free copper ions (Cu2+) ranging from 0.7 (control) to 13\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa010-8M for up to 120\xc2\xa0h. Free Cu2+ion concentrations were calculated through the chemical equilibrium model MINEQL+. We observed that copper was responsible for a decrease in cell density and an increase in total protein and lipid production, but no effect on total carbohydrates was detected. The increase in phospholipids and sterols and a decrease in saturated fatty acids under copper exposure suggest a change in conformation of the cell membrane, by decreasing its fluidity. We suggest this serves the cell as a system to avoid the internalization of metal, thereby acting as a detoxifying mechanism. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Viruses play important roles in population dynamics and as drivers of evolution in single-celled marine phytoplankton. Viral infection of Ostreococcus tauri often causes cell lysis, but two spontaneously arising resistance mechanisms occur: resistant cells that cannot become infected and resistant producer cells that are infected but not lysed, and which may slowly release viruses. As of yet, little is known about how consistent the effects of viruses on their hosts are across different environments. To measure the effect of host resistance on host growth, and to determine whether this effect is environmentally dependent, we compared the growth and survival of susceptible, resistant and resistant producer O. tauri cells under five environmental conditions with and without exposure to O. tauri virus. While the effects of exposure to virus on growth rates did not show a consistent pattern in populations of resistant cells, there were several cases where exposure to virus affected growth in resistant hosts, sometimes positively. In the absence of virus, there was no detectable cost of resistance in any environment, as measured by growth rate. In fact, the opposite was the case, with populations of resistant producer cells having the highest growth rates across four of the five environments. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The cost of bio-oil refining from microalgal biomass can be significantly reduced by combining extraction and transesterification. The characterisation and optimisation of the combined steps have been carried out on strains of Stichococcus bacillaris, focusing on catalyst type and concentration, reaction time and temperature, methanol/biomass ratio, pre-mixing time and water content in the biomass. The bio-oil yield has been referenced as production of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs). The maximum yield (\xe2\x88\xbc17%) was achieved using dried biomass with alkaline catalyst at 60\xc2\xb0C and methanol/biomass weight ratio of 79:1. Alkaline catalyst conditions gave faster reaction rates and higher bio-oil yields than acid catalyst. Yield was also strongly affected by water content in the biomass. A mechanistic interpretation has been proposed to elucidate the effect of the different operating conditions. However, the structural characteristics of the Chlorophyta cell wall can be very different, leading to different bio-oil yields when the same protocol is applied. Therefore, the optimised protocol of direct transesterification for Stichococcus bacillaris strains was tested on other Stichococcus strains and several other Chlorophyta species characterised by a different cell wall structure. It was clearly demonstrated that different results for bio-oil yield were obtained within the same microalgal species and much more within different microalgal genera. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the parameters of chemical extraction associated with the detection of toxicity and genotoxicity in sediment sample extracts. Quantitative analysis of metals and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), together with a battery of four bioassays, was performed in order to evaluate the extraction efficiency of inorganic and organic toxicants. The extracts were carried out using two inorganic solvents, two organic solvents and two extraction methodologies, making a total of five extracts. Two toxicity tests, the algal growth inhibition of Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and the root elongation inhibition of Lactuca sativa, and two genotoxicity tests, the analysis of revertants of Salmonella typhimurium and the analysis of micronuclei and chromosomal aberrations in Allium cepa, were performed. According to the chemical analysis, the acidic solution extracted more heavy metal concentrations than distilled water, and dichloromethane extracted more but fewer concentrations of PAH compounds than methanol. Shaker extracts with distilled water were non-toxic to P. subcapitata, but were toxic to L. sativa. The acidic extracts were more toxic to P. subcapitata than to L. sativa. The methanolic organic extracts were more toxic to the alga than those obtained with dichloromethane. None of these extracts resulted toxic to L. sativa. Mutagenic effects were only detected in the organic dichloromethane extracts in the presence of metabolic activation. All the inorganic and organic extracts were genotoxic to A. cepa. This study showed that the implementation of different extraction methods together with a battery of bioassays could be suitable tools for detecting toxicity and genotoxicity in sediment samples. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Aerial microalgae are more exposed to harsh and rapidly changing environmental conditions, including desiccation and radiation. Under high light, aerial algae in the desiccated state would be highly subject to photodamage. Therefore, aerial algae need effective protective mechanisms to dissipate excess excitation energy. In this study, the changes in photosynthetic behaviors during desiccation and after rehydration in Trentepohlia jolithus were confirmed using chlorophyll a fluorescence (OJIP) transient, allowing determination of the photoprotection mechanisms of this aerial alga. The filaments of T.\xc2\xa0jolithus cells at 25% relative air humidity (RH) are significantly shrunken compared with those at 100% and 87% RH, decreasing the surface area for light absorption. At 25% RH, the shape and intensity of the OJIP transient disappeared, but recovered rapidly to the level at 100% RH after 5\xc2\xa0s of rehydration. Compared with 100% RH, the maximum quantum yield of PSII (\xcf\x86Po), phenomenological energy fluxes for absorption (ABS/CSm) and active PSII reaction centers (RCs) at 25% RH decreased significantly, the specific energy fluxes for absorption (ABS/RC) increased significantly, but the specific energy fluxes for trapping (TRo/RC) at 25% RH did not change. These parameters at 25% RH recovered rapidly to the level at 100% RH after 5\xc2\xa0s of rehydration. These results suggest that the efficiency of PSII light absorption and activities of PSII RCs were reversibly down-regulated in desiccated T.\xc2\xa0jolithus, which may be a special adaptive mechanism for the survivability of aerial microalgae in habitats with rapidly changing water availability. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Antibiotics are routinely used in microalgae culture screening, stock culture maintenance, and genetic transformation. By studying the effect of antibiotics on microalgae growth, we can estimate the least value to inhibit growth of undesired pathogens in algal culture. We studied the effect of kanamycin and tetracycline on the growth and photosynthetic activity of two chlorophyte microalgae,Dictyosphaerium pulchellumandMicractinium pusillum.We measured CFU\xe2\x80\x89mL-1on agar plates, optical density, fluorescence yields, and photosynthetic inhibition. Our results showed a significant effect ofkanandteton the tested microalgae species excepttet,which showed a minor effect onM. pusillum.Both antibiotics are believed to interact with the protein synthesis machinery; hence, the inhibitory effect of the tested antibiotics was further confirmed by isolation and quantification of the whole cell protein. A significant reduction in protein quantity was observed at concentrations more than 5\xe2\x80\x89mg\xe2\x80\x89L-1, exceptM. pusillum, which showed only a slight reduction in protein quantity even at the maximum tested concentration oftet(30\xe2\x80\x89mg\xe2\x80\x89L-1). This study can further aid in aquaculture industry, for the maintenance of the microalgae stock cultures and it can also help the microalgae genetic engineers in the construction of molecular markers. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cadmium can enter water, soil, and food chain in amounts harmful to human health by industrial wastes. The use of intact and NaOH-treated dried algal tissues (Hydrodictyon reticulatum), a major ecosystem bio-component, for Cd removal from aqueous solutions was characterized. Cadmium biosorption was found to be dependent on solution pH, bioadsorbent dose, the interaction between pH and dose, contact time, and initial Cd concentration. The experimental results indicated that the biosorption performance of alkaline-treated algal tissues was better than that of intact tissues. The maximum biosorption capacities were 7.40 and 12.74\xc2\xa0mg g-1for intact and alkaline-treated bioadsorbents, respectively, at optimum operating conditions. Biosorption reaches equilibrium after 24 and 240 minutes of contact, respectively, for alkaline-treated and intact bioadsorbents. Cadmium biosorption was best fitted to Langmuir isotherm model (R2\xe2\x89\x88 0.99) and the kinetic study obeyed the pseudo-second-order kinetic model, which suggests chemisorption as the rate-limiting step in the biosorption process. Alkaline-treated algal tissues can be used as a new material of low-cost bioadsorbent for continuous flow rate treatment systems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microalga biomass has been recognized as a sustainable bio-product to replace terrestrial biomass in biofuel production. The microalga industry has high operating costs, specifically on harvesting and biomass recovery. Therefore, the development of an efficient harvesting method is crucial to the minimization of production cost. A statistical analysis through response surface methodology was used to investigate the optimization of harvesting efficiency using alum and chitosan as a coagulant. Growth rate and biomass productivity were also determined. This research revealed that the harvesting efficiency using alum was 99.3%, with optimum dosage and pH of 177.74\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1and 8.24, respectively. Chitosan achieved 94.2% biomass recovery at an optimal dosage of 169.95\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1at pH of 12. Moreover, Botryococcus sp. achieved the maximum growth of 0.7551 \xc2\xb5maxd-1, with an average total biomass productivity of 9.81\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L-1\xe2\x80\x89d-1in domestic wastewater. Overall, this study shows that both alum and chitosan coagulants have great potential for efficient microalgal biomass recovery. It suggests that domestic wastewater as a potential growth medium for the large-scale production of microalga biomass. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"BACKGROUND: The multicellular volvocine alga Pleodorina is intermediate in organismal complexity between its unicellular relative, Chlamydomonas, and its multicellular relative, Volvox, which shows complete division of labor between different cell types. The volvocine green microalgae form a group of genera closely related to the genus Volvox within the order Volvocales (Chlorophyta). Embryos of multicellular volvocine algae consist of a cellular monolayer that, depending on the species, is either bowl-shaped or comprises a sphere. During embryogenesis, multicellular volvocine embryos turn their cellular monolayer right-side out to expose their flagella. This process is called 'inversion' and serves as simple model for epithelial folding in metazoa. While the development of spherical Volvox embryos has been the subject of detailed studies, the inversion process of bowl-shaped embryos is less well understood. Therefore, it has been unclear how the inversion of a sphere might have evolved from less complicated processes.RESULTS: In this study we characterized the inversion of initially bowl-shaped embryos of the 64- to 128-celled volvocine species Pleodorina californica. We focused on the movement patterns of the cell sheet, cell shape changes and changes in the localization of cytoplasmic bridges (CBs) connecting the cells. The development of living embryos was recorded using time-lapse light microscopy. Moreover, fixed and sectioned embryos throughout inversion and at successive stages of development were analyzed by light and transmission electron microscopy. We generated three-dimensional models of the identified cell shapes including the localization of CBs.CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to descriptions concerning volvocine embryos with lower cell numbers, the embryonic cells of P. californica undergo non-simultaneous and non-uniform cell shape changes. In P. californica, cell wedging in combination with a relocation of the CBs to the basal cell tips explains the curling of the cell sheet during inversion. In volvocine genera with lower organismal complexity, the cell shape changes and relocation of CBs are less pronounced in comparison to P. californica, while they are more pronounced in all members of the genus Volvox. This finding supports an increasing significance of the temporal and spatial regulation of cell shape changes and CB relocations with both increasing cell number and organismal complexity during evolution of differentiated multicellularity. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Wastewater-algal biomass is a promising option to biofuel production. However, microbial contaminants constitute a substantial barrier to algal biofuel yield. A series of algal strains, Nannochloris oculata and Chlorella vulgaris samples (n = 30), were purchased from the University of Texas, and were used for both stock flask cultures and flat-panel vertical bioreactors. A number of media were used for isolation and differentiation of potential contaminants according to laboratory standards (CLSI). Conventional PCR amplification was performed followed by 16S rDNA sequencing to identify isolates at the species level. Nanotherapeutics involving a nanomicellar combination of natural chitosan and zinc oxide (CZNPs) were tested against the microbial lytic groups through Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) tests and Transmission Electronic Microscopy (TEM). Results indicated the presence of Pseudomonas spp., Bacillus pumilus/ safensis, Cellulosimicrobium cellulans, Micrococcus luteus and Staphylococcus epidermidis strains at a substantial level in the wastewater-fed algal reactors. TEM confirmed the effectiveness of CZNPs on the lytic group while the average MICs (mg/mL) detected for the strains, Pseudomonas spp, Micrococcus luteus, and Bacillus pumilus were 0.417, 3.33, and 1.458, respectively. Conclusively, CZNP antimicrobials proved to be effective as inhibitory agents against currently identified lytic microbial group, did not impact algae cells, and shows promise for in situ interventions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The metabolism of cytokinins (CKs) and auxins in vascular plants is relatively well understood, but data concerning their metabolic pathways in non-vascular plants are still rather rare. With the aim of filling this gap, 20 representatives of taxonomically major lineages of cyanobacteria and algae from Cyanophyceae, Xanthophyceae, Eustigmatophyceae, Porphyridiophyceae, Chlorophyceae, Ulvophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae, Zygnematophyceae and Klebsormidiophyceae were analysed for endogenous profiles of CKs and auxins and some of them were used for studies of the metabolic fate of exogenously applied radiolabelled CK, [3H]trans-zeatin (transZ) and auxin ([3H]indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)), and the dynamics of endogenous CK and auxin pools during algal growth and cell division.METHODS: Quantification of phytohormone levels was performed by high-performance or ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS, UHPLC-MS/MS). The dynamics of exogenously applied [3H]transZ and [3H]IAA in cell cultures were monitored by HPLC with on-line radioactivity detection.KEY RESULTS: The comprehensive screen of selected cyanobacteria and algae for endogenous CKs revealed a predominance of bioactive and phosphate CK forms while O- and N-glucosides evidently did not contribute greatly to the total CK pool. The abundance of cis-zeatin-type CKs and occurrence of CK 2-methylthio derivatives pointed to the tRNA pathway as a substantial source of CKs. The importance of the tRNA biosynthetic pathway was proved by the detection of tRNA-bound CKs during the course of Scenedesmus obliquus growth. Among auxins, free IAA and its oxidation catabolite 2-oxindole-3-acetic acid represented the prevailing endogenous forms. After treatment with [3H]IAA, IAA-aspartate and indole-3-acetyl-1-glucosyl ester were detected as major auxin metabolites. Moreover, different dynamics of endogenous CKs and auxin profiles during S. obliquus culture clearly demonstrated diverse roles of both phytohormones in algal growth and cell division.CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest the existence and functioning of a complex network of metabolic pathways and activity control of CKs and auxins in cyanobacteria and algae that apparently differ from those in vascular plants. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Coccoid green algae are extremely diverse despite their simple coccoid phenotype, a phenotype that may be the result of convergent evolution. In this study, we used a polyphasic approach combining molecular phylogenetic analyses, morphology and ultrastructure to investigate isolated coccoid strains from China, and our results reveal three new lineages of Trebouxiophyceae: the novel genus and species Mysteriochloris nanningensis gen. et sp. nov., and the two novel species Phyllosiphon coccidium sp. nov. and Desertella yichangensis sp. nov. (Trebouxiophyceae, Chlorophyta). We provide a detailed characterization of the novel microalgae which they are autosporic coccoid unicells and have parietal chloroplasts. In phylogenies based on 18S rDNA sequences and the chloroplast ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase gene (rbcL), these three algae are nested within the Watanabea clade and are different from any known algae. M. nanningensis FACHB-1787 is not really close to any known algae within the Watanabea clade. Phyllosiphoncoccidium FACHB-2212 is within the Phyllosiphon lineages. D. yichangensis FACHB-1793 is closely related to Desertella californica and described as a representative of a novel species of the genus Desertella. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Until now, descriptions of intracellular biomineralization of amorphous inclusions involving alkaline-earth metal (AEM) carbonates other than calcium have been confined exclusively to cyanobacteria (Couradeau et\xc2\xa0al., 2012). Here, we report the first evidence of the presence of intracellular amorphous granules of AEM carbonates (calcium, strontium, and barium) in unicellular eukaryotes. These inclusions, which we have named micropearls, show concentric and oscillatory zoning on a nanometric scale. They are widespread in certain eukaryote phytoplankters of Lake Geneva (Switzerland) and represent a previously unknown type of non-skeletal biomineralization, revealing an unexpected pathway in the geochemical cycle of AEMs. We have identified Tetraselmis cf. cordiformis (Chlorophyta, Prasinophyceae) as being responsible for the formation of one micropearl type containing strontium ([Ca,Sr]CO3), which we also found in a cultured strain of Tetraselmis cordiformis. A different flagellated eukaryotic cell forms barium-rich micropearls [(Ca,Ba)CO3]. The strontium and barium concentrations of both micropearl types are extremely high compared with the undersaturated water of Lake Geneva (the Ba/Ca ratio of the micropearls is up to 800,000 times higher than in the water). This can only be explained by a high biological pre-concentration of these elements. The particular characteristics of the micropearls, along with the presence of organic sulfur-containing compounds-associated with and surrounding the micropearls-strongly suggest the existence of a yet-unreported intracellular biomineralization pathway in eukaryotic micro-organisms. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A total of 28 strains of 19 Penicillium species were isolated in a survey of extracellular enzyme-producing fungi from macroalgae along the coast of Jeju Island of Korea. Penicillium species were identified based on morphological and \xce\xb2-tubulin sequence analyses. In addition, the halo-tolerance and enzyme activity of all strains were evaluated. The diversity of Penicillium strains isolated from brown algae was higher than the diversity of strains isolated from green and red algae. The commonly isolated species were Penicillium antarcticum, P. bialowiezense, P. brevicompactum, P. crustosum, P. oxalicum, P. rubens, P. sumatrense, and P. terrigenum. While many strains showed endoglucanase, \xce\xb2-glucosidase, and protease activity, no alginase activity was detected. There was a positive correlation between halo-tolerance and endoglucanase activity within Penicillium species. Among 19 Penicillium species, three species-P. kongii, P. olsonii, and P. viticola-have not been previously recorded in Korea. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Vacuole is a multifunctional compartment central to a large number of functions (storage, catabolism, maintenance of the cell homeostasis) in oxygenic phototrophs including microalgae. Still, microalgal cell vacuole is much less studied than that of higher plants although knowledge of the vacuolar structure and function is essential for understanding physiology of nutrition and stress tolerance of microalgae. Here, we combined the advanced analytical and conventional transmission electron microscopy methods to obtain semi-quantitative, spatially resolved at the subcellular level information on elemental composition of the cell vacuoles in several free-living and symbiotic chlorophytes. We obtained a detailed record of the changes in cell and vacuolar ultrastructure in response to environmental stimuli under diverse conditions. We suggested that the vacuolar inclusions could be divided into responsible for storage of phosphorus (mainly in form of polyphosphate) and those accommodating non-protein nitrogen (presumably polyamine) reserves, respectively.The ultrastructural findings, together with the data on elemental composition of different cell compartments, allowed us to speculate on the role of the vacuolar membrane in the biosynthesis and sequestration of polyphosphate. We also describe the ultrastructural evidence of possible involvement of the tonoplast in the membrane lipid turnover and exchange of energy and metabolites between chloroplasts and mitochondria. These processes might play a significant role in acclimation in different stresses including nitrogen starvation and extremely high level of CO2and might also be of importance for microalgal biotechnology. Advantages and limitations of application of analytical electron microscopy to biosamples such as microalgal cells are discussed. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Although aquatic organisms in the environment are exposed to mixtures of metals, risk assessment for metals is most commonly performed on a metal-by-metal basis. To increase the knowledge about chronic mixture effects, the authors investigated whether metal mixture effects are dependent on the biological species, mixture composition, and metal concentration ratio. The authors evaluated the effects of quaternary Ni-Zn-Cu-Cd and ternary Ni-Zn-Cu mixtures on 48-h algal growth rate (Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata) and 7-d daphnid reproduction (Ceriodaphnia dubia) using a ray design. Single metals were 3-fold to 42-fold more toxic for C. dubia than for P. subcapitata, based on the 50% effective concentration expressed as free metal activity, the range representing different metals. Statistical analysis of mixture effects showed that the ternary and quaternary mixture effects were antagonistic on algal growth relative to the concentration addition (CA) model, when the analysis was based on dissolved concentrations and on free metal ion activities. Using the independent action (IA) model, mixture effects in both rays were statistically noninteractive for algal growth when the analysis was based on dissolved concentrations; however, the interactions shifted toward antagonism when based on free ion activities. The ternary Ni-Zn-Cu mixture acted antagonistically on daphnid reproduction relative to both reference models, either expressed as free ion activities or dissolved concentrations. When Cd was added to the mixture, however, the mixture effects shifted toward noninteractivity for daphnids. The metal concentration ratio did not significantly influence the magnitude of observed antagonistic effects. Regardless of statistical interactions observed, based on the present study, CA and in most instances also IA can serve as a protective model for ternary Ni-Zn-Cu and quaternary Ni-Zn-Cu-Cd toxicity to both species. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:1056-1066. \xc2\xa9 2016 SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Dairy wastewater collected from local dairy industry was used as a growth media (without any pre-treatment) for the cultivation of microalgae Acutodesmus dimorphus. The level of COD reduced over 90% (from 2593.33\xc2\xb1277.37 to 215\xc2\xb17.07mg/L) after 4days of cultivation; whereas, ammoniacal nitrogen was consumed completely (277.4\xc2\xb110.75mg/L) after 6days of cultivation. Dry biomass of 840 and 790mg/L was observed after 4 and 8days of cultivation, respectively, which is about 5-6 times more than that of BG-11 grown culture (149mg/L after 8days). This biomass contains around 25% lipid and 30% carbohydrate, which can be further converted into biodiesel and bioethanol, respectively. Theoretical calculations based on the recently reported conversion yield suggest that 1kg biomass of A. dimorphus might produce around 195g of biodiesel and 78g of bioethanol, which sums up to 273g of biofuels. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'As part of our continued search for bioactive secondary metabolites from marine sources using a bioassay-guided fractionation technique (Cytotoxic and anti-trypanosome activities), we have examined the organic extract of Papua New Guinean collection of the green alga Udotea orientalis growing on the Gorgonian coral Pseudopterogorgia rigida. Successive HPLC investigations resulted in isolation of three new compounds, (+) curcuepoxide A, (+) curcuepoxide B and (+)-10\xce\xb1-hydroxycurcudiol. Analysis of different spectroscopic data e.g. UV, IR, LRMS, HRMS, 1D NMR and 2D NMR on the isolated compounds allowed for construction of the planar structures. Stereochemistry assignment at C-7 and C-10 in the new compounds was discussed. Isolated compounds were found to be active in an in vitro assay of antitrypanosome activity. The isolated compounds were found to have variable cytotoxic activity in human lung cancer cell lines. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Triclosan (TCS) is a broad-spectrum antimicrobial agent that is found extensively in natural aquatic environments. Enzyme-catalyzed oxidative coupling reactions (ECOCRs) can be used to remove TCS in aqueous solution, but there is limited information available to indicate how metal cations (MCs) and natural organic matter (NOM) influence the environmental fate of TCS during laccase-mediated ECOCRs. In this study, we demonstrated that the naturally occurring laccase from Pleurotus ostreatus was effective in removing TCS during ECOCRs, and the oligomerization of TCS was identified as the dominant reaction pathway by high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS). The growth inhibition studies of green algae (Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Scenedesmus obliquus) proved that laccase-mediated ECOCRs could effectively reduce the toxicity of TCS. The presence of dissolved MCs (Mn2+, Al3+, Ca2+, Cu2+, and Fe2+ions) influenced the removal and transformation of TCS via different mechanisms. Additionally, the transformation of TCS in systems with NOM derived from humic acid (HA) was hindered, and the apparent pseudo first-order kinetics rate constants (k) for TCS decreased as the HA concentration increased, which likely corresponded to the combined effect of both noncovalent (sorption) and covalent binding between TCS and humic molecules. Our results provide a novel insight into the fate and transformation of TCS by laccase-mediated ECOCRs in natural aquatic environments in the presence of MCs and NOM. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Micromonas strains of small prasinophyte green algae are found throughout the world's oceans, exploiting widely different niches. We grew arctic and temperate strains of Micromonas and compared their susceptibilities to photoinactivation of Photosystem II, their counteracting Photosystem II repair capacities, their Photosystem II content, and their induction and relaxation of non-photochemical quenching. In the arctic strain Micromonas NCMA 2099, the cellular content of active Photosystem II represents only about 50\xc2\xa0% of total Photosystem II protein, as a slow rate constant for clearance of PsbA protein limits instantaneous repair. In contrast, the temperate strain NCMA 1646 shows a faster clearance of PsbA protein which allows it to maintain active Photosystem II content equivalent to total Photosystem II protein. Under growth at 2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, the arctic Micromonas maintains a constitutive induction of xanthophyll deepoxidation, shown by second-derivative whole-cell spectra, which supports strong induction of non-photochemical quenching under low to moderate light, even if xanthophyll cycling is blocked. This non-photochemical quenching, however, relaxes during subsequent darkness with kinetics nearly comparable to the temperate Micromonas NCMA 1646, thereby limiting the opportunity cost of sustained downregulation of PSII function after a decrease in light. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'This study investigates the year-round production potential and quality of biodiesel from wastewater treatment high rate algal pond (WWT HRAP) biomass and how it is affected by CO2addition to the culture. The mean monthly pond biomass and lipid productivities varied between 2.0\xc2\xb10.3 and 11.1\xc2\xb12.5gVSS/m2/d, and between 0.5\xc2\xb10.1 and 2.6\xc2\xb11.1g/m2/d, respectively. The biomass fatty acid methyl esters were highly complex which led to produce low-quality biodiesel so that it cannot be used directly as a transportation fuel. Overall, 0.9\xc2\xb10.1g/m2/d (3.2\xc2\xb10.5ton/ha/year) low-quality biodiesel could be produced from WWT HRAP biomass which could be further increased to 1.1\xc2\xb10.1g/m2/d (4.0ton/ha/year) by lowering culture pH to 6-7 during warm summer months. CO2addition, had little effect on both the biomass lipid content and profile and consequently did not change the quality of biodiesel. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Photosynthetic picoeukaryotes (PPEs) are important constituents in picoplankton communities in many marine ecosystems. However, little is known about their community composition in the subtropical coastal waters of the Northwestern Pacific Ocean. In order to study their taxonomic composition, this study constructed 18S rRNA gene libraries using flow cytometric sorting during the warm season. The results show that, after diatoms, prasinophyte clones are numerically dominant. Within prasinophytes, Micromonas produced the most common sequences, and included clades II, III, IV, and VI. We are establishing the new Micromonas clade VI based on our phylogenetic analysis. Sequences of this clade have previously been retrieved from the South China Sea and Red Sea, indicating a worldwide distribution, but this is the first study to detect clade VI in the coastal waters of Taiwan. The TSA-FISH results indicated that Micromonas clade VI peaked in the summer (~4\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa0102\xc2\xa0cells/ml), accounting for one-fifth of Micromonas abundance on average. Overall, Micromonas contributed half of Mamiellophyceae abundance, while Mamiellophyceae contributed 40% of PPE abundance. This study demonstrates the importance of Micromonas within the Mamiellophyceae in a subtropical coastal ecosystem. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The authors modeled the 72-h algal toxicity data of hundreds of chemicals with different modes of action as a function of chemical structures. They developed mode of action-based local quantitative structure-toxicity relationship (QSTR) models for nonpolar and polar narcotics as well as a global QSTR model with a wide applicability potential for industrial chemicals and pharmaceuticals. The present study rigorously evaluated the generated models, meeting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development principles of robustness, validity, and transparency. The proposed global model had a broad structural coverage for the toxicity prediction of diverse chemicals (some of which are high-production volume chemicals) with no experimental toxicity data. The global model is potentially useful for endpoint predictions, the evaluation of algal toxicity screening, and the prioritization of chemicals, as well as for the decision of further testing and the development of risk-management measures in a scientific and regulatory frame. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:1012-1019. \xc2\xa9 2016 SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The genus Tetrahymena (Ciliophora, Oligohymenophorea) probably represents the best studied ciliate genus. At present, more than forty species have been described. All are colorless, i.e. they do not harbor symbiotic algae, and as aerobes they need at least microaerobic habitats. Here, we present the morphological and molecular description of the first green representative, Tetrahymena utriculariae n. sp., living in symbiosis with endosymbiotic algae identified as Micractinium sp. (Chlorophyta). The full life cycle of the ciliate species is documented, including trophonts and theronts, conjugating cells, resting cysts and dividers. This species has been discovered in an exotic habitat, namely in traps of the carnivorous aquatic plant Utricularia reflexa (originating from Okavango Delta, Botswana). Green ciliates live as commensals of the plant in this anoxic habitat. Ciliates are bacterivorous, however, symbiosis with algae is needed to satisfy cell metabolism but also to gain oxygen from symbionts. When ciliates are cultivated outside their natural habitat under aerobic conditions and fed with saturating bacterial food, they gradually become aposymbiotic. Based on phylogenetic analyses of 18S rRNA and mitochondrial cox1 genes T.\xc2\xa0utriculariae forms a sister group to Tetrahymena thermophila. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Trap fluid of aquatic carnivorous plants of the genus Utricularia hosts specific microbiomes consisting of commensal pro- and eukaryotes of largely unknown ecology. We examined the characteristics and dynamics of bacteria and the three dominant eukaryotes, i.e. the algae-bearing ciliate Tetrahymena utriculariae (Ciliophora), a green flagellate Euglena agilis (Euglenophyta), and the alga Scenedesmus alternans (Chlorophyta), associated with the traps of Utricularia reflexa. Our study focused on ecological traits and life strategies of the highly abundant ciliate whose biomass by far exceeds that of other eukaryotes and bacteria independent of the trap age. The ciliate was the only bacterivore in the traps, driving rapid turnover of bacterial standing stock. However, given the large size of the ciliate and the cell-specific uptake rates of bacteria we estimated that bacterivory alone would likely be insufficient to support its apparent rapid growth in traps. We suggest that mixotrophy based on algal symbionts contributes significantly to the diet and survival strategy of the ciliate in the extreme (anaerobic, low pH) trap-fluid environment. We propose a revised concept of major microbial interactions in the trap fluid where ciliate bacterivory plays a central role in regeneration of nutrients bound in rapidly growing bacterial biomass. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Compared with unicellular microalgae, filamentous algae have high resistance to grazer-predation and low-cost recovery in large-scale production. Green algae, as the most diverse group of algae, included numerous filamentous genera and species. In this study, records of filamentous genera and species in green algae were firstly censused and classified. Then, seven filamentous strains subordinated in different genera were cultivated in bubbled-column to investigate their growth rate and energy molecular (lipid and starch) capacity. Four strains including Stigeoclonium sp., Oedogonium nodulosum, Hormidium sp. and Zygnema extenue were screened out due to their robust growth. And they all could accumulate triacylglycerols and starch in their biomass, but with different capacity. After nitrogen starvation, Hormidium sp. and Oedogonium nodulosum respectively exhibited high capacity of lipid (45.38% in dry weight) and starch (46.19% in dry weight) accumulation, which could be of high potential as feedstocks for biodiesel and bioethanol production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Regulatory ecotoxicity testing of chemicals is of societal importance and a large effort is undertaken at the OECD to ensure that OECD test guidelines (TGs) for nanomaterials (NMs) are available. Significant progress to support the adaptation of selected TGs to NMs was achieved in the context of the project MARINA ( http://www.marina-fp7.eu/ ) funded within the 7th European Framework Program. Eight OECD TGs were adapted based on the testing of at least one ion-releasing NM (Ag) and two inert NMs (TiO2). With the materials applied, two main variants of NMs (ion releasing vs. inert NMs) were addressed. As the modifications of the test guidelines refer to general test topics (e.g. test duration or measuring principle), we assume that the described approaches and modifications will be suitable for the testing of further NMs with other chemical compositions. Firm proposals for modification of protocols with scientific justification(s) are presented for the following tests: growth inhibition using the green algae Raphidocelis subcapitata (formerly: Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata; TG 201), acute toxicity with the crustacean Daphnia magna (TG 202), development toxicity with the fish Danio rerio (TG 210), reproduction of the sediment-living worm Lumbriculus variegatus (TG 225), activity of soil microflora (TGs 216, 217), and reproduction of the invertebrates (Enchytraeus crypticus, Eisenia fetida, TGs 220, 222). Additionally, test descriptions for two further test systems (root elongation of plants in hydroponic culture; test on fish cells) are presented. Ecotoxicological data obtained with the modified test guidelines for TiO2NMs and Ag NM and detailed method descriptions are available. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The complex chemistry of iron (Fe) at circumneutral pH in oxygenated waters and the poor correlation between ecotoxicity results in laboratory and natural waters have led to regulatory approaches for iron based on field studies (US Environmental Protection Agency Water Quality Criteria and European Union Water Framework Directive proposal for Fe). The results of the present study account for the observed differences between laboratory and field observations for Fe toxicity to algae (Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata). Results from standard 72-h assays with Fe at pH 6.3 and pH 8 resulted in similar toxicity values measured as algal biomass, with 50% effect concentrations (EC50) of 3.28\xe2\x80\x89mg/L and 4.95\xe2\x80\x89mg/L total Fe(III), respectively. At the end of the 72-h exposure, however, dissolved Fe concentrations were lower than 30\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg/L for all test concentrations, making a direct toxic effect of dissolved iron on algae unlikely. Analysis of nutrient concentrations in the artificial test media detected phosphorus depletion in a dose-dependent manner that correlated well with algal toxicity. Subsequent experiments adding excess phosphorus after Fe precipitation eliminated the toxicity. These results strongly suggest that observed Fe(III) toxicity on algae in laboratory conditions is a secondary effect of phosphorous depletion. Environ Toxicol Chem 2017;36:952-958. \xc2\xa9 2016 SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Photosynthetic eukaryotes have a complex evolutionary history shaped by multiple endosymbiosis events that required a tight coordination between the organelles and the rest of the cell. Plant ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGLRs) form a large superfamily of proteins with a predicted or proven non-selective cation channel activity regulated by a broad range of amino acids. They are involved in different physiological processes such as C/N sensing, resistance against fungal infection, root and pollen tube growth and response to wounding and pathogens. Most of the present knowledge is limited to iGLRs located in plasma membranes. However, recent studies localized different iGLR isoforms to mitochondria and/or chloroplasts, suggesting the possibility that they play a specific role in bioenergetic processes. In this work, we performed a comparative analysis of GLR sequences from bacteria and various photosynthetic eukaryotes. In particular, novel types of selectivity filters of bacteria are reported adding new examples of the great diversity of the GLR superfamily. The highest variability in GLR sequences was found among the algal sequences (cryptophytes, diatoms, brown and green algae). GLRs of land plants are not closely related to the GLRs of green algae analyzed in this work. The GLR family underwent a great expansion in vascular plants. Among plant GLRs, Clade III includes sequences from Physcomitrella patens, Marchantia polymorpha and gymnosperms and can be considered the most ancient, while other clades likely emerged later. In silico analysis allowed the identification of sequences with a putative target to organelles. Sequences with a predicted localization to mitochondria and chloroplasts are randomly distributed among different type of GLRs, suggesting that no compartment-related specific function has been maintained across the species. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The ecotoxicity of platinum nanoparticles (PtNPs) widely used in for example automotive catalytic converters, is largely unknown. This study employs various characterization techniques and toxicity end points to investigate PtNP toxicity toward the green microalgae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Growth rate inhibition occurred in standard ISO tests (EC50values of 15-200 mg Pt/L), but also in a double-vial setup, separating cells from PtNPs, thus demonstrating shading as an important artifact for PtNP toxicity. Negligible membrane damage, but substantial oxidative stress was detected at 0.1-80 mg Pt/L in both algal species using flow cytometry. PtNPs caused growth rate inhibition and oxidative stress in P. subcapitata, beyond what was accounted for by dissolved Pt, indicating NP-specific toxicity of PtNPs. Overall, P. subcapitata was found to be more sensitive toward PtNPs and higher body burdens were measured in this species, possibly due to a favored binding of Pt to the polysaccharide-rich cell wall of this algal species. This study highlights the importance of using multimethod approaches in nanoecotoxicological studies to elucidate toxicity mechanisms, influence of NP-interactions with media/organisms, and ultimately to identify artifacts and appropriate end points for NP-ecotoxicity testing. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Some photosynthetic organisms live in extremely low light environments. Light limitation is associated with selective forces as well as reduced exposure to mutagens, and over evolutionary timescales it can leave a footprint on species' genomes. Here, we present the chloroplast genomes of four green algae (Bryopsidales, Ulvophyceae), including the endolithic (limestone-boring) alga Ostreobium quekettii, which is a low light specialist. We use phylogenetic models and comparative genomic tools to investigate whether the chloroplast genome of Ostreobium corresponds to our expectations of how low light would affect genome evolution. Ostreobium has the smallest and most gene-dense chloroplast genome among Ulvophyceae reported to date, matching our expectation that light limitation would impose resource constraints reflected in the chloroplast genome architecture. Rates of molecular evolution are significantly slower along the phylogenetic branch leading to Ostreobium, in agreement with the expected effects of low light and energy levels on molecular evolution. We expected the ability of Ostreobium to perform photosynthesis in very low light to be associated with positive selection in genes related to the photosynthetic machinery, but instead, we observed that these genes may be under stronger purifying selection. Besides shedding light on the genome dynamics associated with a low light lifestyle, this study helps to resolve the role of environmental factors in shaping the diversity of genome architectures observed in nature. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'In this study, we explored the effects of ACC on other stages of H. pluvialis. Interestingly, even though ACC displayed a dose-dependent effect on astaxanthin production, it is evident that astaxanthin production could be facilitated whenever the cells were treated at the early red stage. The transcriptional levels of BKT, CHY, SOD, and CAT genes supported enhanced astaxanthin biosynthesis upon ACC treatment at the early red stage. The combinatorial synergistic effect of ACC and light intensity was also confirmed. Finally, two-step application of ACC at the vegetative phase to increase biomass production and at the early-red stage to promote astaxanthin biosynthesis was proposed to maximize the efficiency of ACC treatment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The unicellular green alga Haematococcus pluvialis has been exploited as a cell factory to produce the high-value antioxidant astaxanthin for over two decades, due to its superior ability to synthesize astaxanthin under adverse culture conditions. However, slow vegetative growth under favorable culture conditions and cell deterioration or death under stress conditions (e.g., high light, nitrogen starvation) has limited the astaxanthin production. In this study, a new paradigm that integrated heterotrophic cultivation, acclimation of heterotrophically grown cells to specific light/nutrient regimes, followed by induction of astaxanthin accumulation under photoautotrophic conditions was developed. First, the environmental conditions such as pH, carbon source, nitrogen regime, and light intensity, were optimized to induce astaxanthin accumulation in the dark-grown cells. Although moderate astaxanthin content (e.g., 1% of dry weight) and astaxanthin productivity (2.5\xe2\x80\x89mg\xe2\x80\x89L(-1) \xe2\x80\x89day(-1) ) were obtained under the optimized conditions, a considerable number of cells died off when subjected to stress for astaxanthin induction. To minimize the susceptibility of dark-grown cells to light stress, the algal cells were acclimated, prior to light induction of astaxanthin biosynthesis, under moderate illumination in the presence of nitrogen. Introduction of this strategy significantly reduced the cell mortality rate under high-light and resulted in increased cellular astaxanthin content and astaxanthin productivity. The productivity of astaxanthin was further improved to 10.5\xe2\x80\x89mg\xe2\x80\x89L(-1) \xe2\x80\x89day(-1) by implementation of such a strategy in a bubbling column photobioreactor. Biochemical and physiological analyses suggested that rebuilding of photosynthetic apparatus including D1 protein and PsbO, and recovery of PSII activities, are essential for acclimation of dark-grown cells under photo-induction conditions. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2016;113: 2088-2099. \xc2\xa9 2016 The Authors. Biotechnology and Bioengineering Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Chlorine (Cl2) is widely used as a disinfectant in water treatment plants and for cleaning swimming pools; it is finally discharged into aquatic environments, possibly causing damage to the non-target organisms in the receiving water bodies. Present study evaluated the effects of the biocide Cl2 to the green alga Closterium ehrenbergii (C. ehrenbergii). Growth rate, chlorophyll a levels, carotenoids, chlorophyll autofluorescence, and antioxidant enzymes were monitored up to 72-h after Cl2 exposure. C. ehrenbergii showed dose-dependent decrease in growth rate and cell division after exposure to Cl2. By using cell counts, the median effective concentration (EC50)-72-h was calculated to be 0.071mgL(-1). Cl2 significantly decreased the pigment levels and chlorophyll autofluorescence intensity, indicating that the photosystem was damaged in C. ehrenbergii. In addition, it increased the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the cells. This stressor significantly increased the activities of antioxidant enzymes, including superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, and glutathione, and affected the physiology of the cells. These results indicate that Cl2 induces oxidative stress in the cellular metabolic process and leads to physiological and biochemical damages in the green algae. Cl2 discharged in industrial effluents and from water treatment plants may cause harmful effects to the C. ehrenbergii a common freshwater microalgae and other non-target organisms. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Apiose is a branched monosaccharide that is present in the cell wall pectic polysaccharides rhamnogalacturonan II and apiogalacturonan and in numerous plant secondary metabolites. These apiose-containing glycans are synthesized using UDP-apiose as the donor. UDP-apiose (UDP-Api) together with UDP-xylose is formed from UDP-glucuronic acid (UDP-GlcA) by UDP-Api synthase (UAS). It was hypothesized that the ability to form Api distinguishes vascular plants from the avascular plants and green algae. UAS from several dicotyledonous plants has been characterized; however, it is not known if avascular plants or green algae produce this enzyme. Here we report the identification and functional characterization of UAS homologs from avascular plants (mosses, liverwort, and hornwort), from streptophyte green algae, and from a monocot (duckweed). The recombinant UAS homologs all form UDP-Api from UDP-glucuronic acid albeit in different amounts. Apiose was detected in aqueous methanolic extracts of these plants. Apiose was detected in duckweed cell walls but not in the walls of the avascular plants and algae. Overexpressing duckweed UAS in the moss Physcomitrella patens led to an increase in the amounts of aqueous methanol-acetonitrile-soluble apiose but did not result in discernible amounts of cell wall-associated apiose. Thus, bryophytes and algae likely lack the glycosyltransferase machinery required to synthesize apiose-containing cell wall glycans. Nevertheless, these plants may have the ability to form apiosylated secondary metabolites. Our data are the first to provide evidence that the ability to form apiose existed prior to the appearance of rhamnogalacturonan II and apiogalacturonan and provide new insights into the evolution of apiose-containing glycans. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Distribution of different phosphorus (P) forms in the overlying water and the contribution of different algae to the P disappearance were investigated under disturbance with the addition of algae (Microcystis aeruginosa and Selenastrum capricornutum, respectively). The sediments and overlying water were taken from Meiliang Bay in Taihu Lake. The results showed that the concentrations of total P (TP), dissolved total P (DTP), dissolved inorganic P (DIP) and biavailable P (BAP) decreased with and without disturbance. The uptake of DTP and DIP by Microcystis aeruginosa was better than that of Selenastrum capricornutum under the disturbance, but it was the opposite without the disturbance. The disappearance of P in the overlying water was attributed completely to the physico-chemical adsorption of the suspended solids and the uptake of algae. But the contribution of suspended solids and algae depended on the disturbance. The contribution of Microcystis aeruginosa and Selenastrum capricornutum to DTP and DIP absorption was about 60% without disturbance. However, the value was reduced to 40% (Microcystis aeruginosa) and 25% ( Selenastrum capricornutum) under the disturbance. Under the disturbance and the action of algae, the distribution of sedimentary P forms changed. NH4 Cl-P and Ca-P release and Fe/Al-P increase were observed with and without disturbance. The decrease of NH4 Cl-P and Ca-P and the increase of Fe/Al-P were more obvious with disturbance than without disturbance. Selenastrum capricornutum was favor of the release of Ca-P and the formation of Fe/Al-P. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In order to explore the structural characteristics of phytoplankton community and the water quality and the water quality of the Fenhe scenic spot in Taiyuan, the species composition and the biomass of phytoplankton as well as their correlation with the environmental factors were monitored. The survey selected 9 sampling sites along the up and lower reaches in Fenhe scenic spot of Taiyuan, from Chaicun Bridge to Xiangyun Bridge. During the wet season (June-Octoher) in 2014, specimens were collected, qualitative and quantitative investigation on the algae and monitoring on physicochemical indexes of the water were studied. Meanwhile, the water quality was analyzed and evaluated combining all the physicochemical indexes and cell density. Correlation analysis and RDA were conducted to analyze the relationship of algal community structure and the environmental factors. The main results showed that the dominant phytoplanktons were Cyanophyta, Chlorophyta and Bacillariophyta. The algal biomass first increased and then reduced during the wet season, and the maximum value of hiomass occurred in July. There were many differences among different sampling points. The cell densities of phytoplankton were much higher in three central areas than the other sampling sites. Physical and chemical factors showed a variation tendency in time and space. Based on the results of RDA hetween phytoplankton cell densities and the physic-chemical parameters, the cell densities and the physic..chemical parameters had different correlations. The total cell density had significant positive correlation with dissolved oxygen, and negative correlation with COD. There were extremely significant positive correlations between diatom cell densities and water temperature, air temperature. But the diatom cell density was obviously negatively correlated with COD. It was distinct that the functions of the environment factors were different in temporal and spatial distrihution. The state index of comprehensive nutrition indicated that the total nitrogen content was beyond the standard in all sampling sites during the whole wet season. The water quality varied from oligotrophic to light eutrophic. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Although the industrial use of nanoparticles has increased over the past decade, the knowledge about their interaction with benthic phototrophic microorganisms in the environment is still limited. This study aims to characterize the toxic effect of ionic Ag+and Ag nanoparticles (citrate-coated silver nanoparticles, AgNPs) in a wide concentration range (from 1 to 1000\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L-1) and duration of exposure (2, 5 and 14\xc2\xa0days) on three biofilm-forming benthic microorganisms: diatom Nitzschia palea, green algae Uronema confervicolum and cyanobacteria Leptolyngbya sp. Ag+has a significant effect on the growth of all three species at low concentrations (1-10\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L-1), whereas the inhibitory effect of AgNPs was only observed at 1000\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L-1and solely after 2\xc2\xa0days of exposure. The inhibitory effect of both Ag+and AgNPs decreased in the course of the experiments from 2 to 14\xc2\xa0days, which can be explained by the progressive excretion of the exopolysaccharides and dissolved organic carbon by the microorganisms, thus allowing them to alleviate the toxic effects of aqueous silver. The lower impact of AgNPs on cells compared to Ag+can be explained in terms of availability, internalization, reactive oxygen species production, dissolved silver concentration and agglomeration of AgNPs. The duration of exposure to Ag+and AgNPs stress is a fundamental parameter controlling the bioaccumulation and detoxification in benthic phototrophic microorganisms. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Risk assessment of pesticides has been based on direct toxic effects on aquatic organisms. Indirect effects data are taken into account but with limitations, as it is frequently difficult to predict their real impacts in the ecosystems. In this context the main aim of this work was to assess how the exposure to the herbicide pendimethalin (Prowl(\xc2\xae)), under environmentally relevant concentrations, may compromise the nutritional composition of food for a relevant group of primary consumers of freshwater food webs-the daphnids, thus affecting their reproduction performance and subsequently the long-term sustainability of active populations of this grazer. Therefore, Daphnia magna individuals were chronically exposed in a clean medium to a control diet (NCF - i.e., non-contaminated green algae Raphidocelis subcapitata) and to a contaminated diet (CF - i.e., the same monoalgal culture grown in a medium enriched with pendimethalin in a concentration equivalent to the EC20 for growth inhibition of algae), during which reproductive endpoints were assessed. The algae were analysed for protein, carbohydrate and fatty acid content. The chemical composition of R. subcapitata in the CF revealed a slight decrease on total fatty acid levels, with a particular decrease of essential \xcf\x899 monounsaturated fatty acids. In contrast, the protein content was high in the CF. D. magna exposed to CF experienced a 16% reduction in reproduction, measured as the total number of offspring produced per female. Additionally, an internal pendimethalin body burden of 4.226\xce\xbcgg(-1) was accumulated by daphnids fed with CF. Hence, although it is difficult to discriminate the contribution of the pesticide (as a toxic agent transferred through the food web) from that of the food with a poor quality-compromised by the same pesticide, there are no doubts that, under environmentally relevant concentrations of pesticides, both pathways may compromise the populations of freshwater grazers in the long term, with consequences in the control of the primary productivity of these systems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the present work we wanted to know what happens during time to biomass and lipid productivities of Chlorococcum littorale repeatedly subjected to N-starvation. Experiments were done using repeated cycles of batch-wise N run-out (after 2days N=0). Two different cycles were used: repeated short-starvation (6days of N=0) over a total period of 72days and repeated long-starvation (13days of N=0) over a total period of 75days. Batches (using fresh inocula) were done separately as control. Shorter and longer periods of starvation showed no differences in biomass productivities and PSII quantum yield evolution. The repeated short-starvation-batches showed the same lipid productivities as the control short-starvation batches. Most importantly, the biomass lipid content was the same between control and repeated-batches. Altogether, the results point to C. littorale as a resilient and stable strain, with potential to be used under semi continuous cultivation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The transfer of invasive organisms by ballast-water discharge has become a growing concern. UV treatment has become an attractive ballast water treatment technology due to its effectiveness, no harmful disinfection byproducts and easiness to handle. Two robust algae strains Microcystis viridis and Tetraselmis suecica were selected as indicator organisms to determine efficiency of medium-pressure (MP) UV-treatment on ballast water. Inactivation and potential repair of these two algae strains following MP UV irradiation were assessed under various turbidity, total organic carbon (TOC) and salinity conditions. The investigated range of UV doses was from 25 to 500\xc2\xa0mJ/cm(2). For M.\xc2\xa0viridis, results indicated that disinfection efficiency was negatively correlated with all of these three factors at low doses (25-200\xc2\xa0mJ/cm(2)). Photoreactivation and dark repair were promoted at high TOC levels (6-15\xc2\xa0mg/L) with about 6-25% higher repair levels compared with those in distilled water, whereas no significant impacts were identified for turbidity and salinity on both of the photoreactivation and dark repair. For T.\xc2\xa0suecica, increased turbidity and TOC levels both hindered the performance of UV irradiation at high doses (200-500\xc2\xa0mJ/cm(2)). Suppressive effects on photoreactivation and dark repair were consistently observed with changes of all of the three factors. In conclusion, generally these three factors resulted in repressive effects on UV disinfection efficiency, and TOC played a more significant role in the levels of reactivation than the other two. The responses of T.\xc2\xa0suecica to these three factors were more sensitive than M.\xc2\xa0viridis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Haematococcus pluvialis was modified for higher astaxanthin production compatible with the superiorities of high biomass and high activity by three-stage mutagenesis breeding. UV irradiation mutants named UV11-4 made an increase on cell dry weight, but showed a longer growth circle than the wild type. On the basis of UV mutants, ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS) mutants E2-5 cut down the latent phase, brought forward and extended the logarithmic phase. The inhibitor diphenylamine (DPA) was employed to screen high-yield astaxanthin producer by the color change of colonies from green to red on solid medium. Via the contravariant cultivation, proliferation and transformation, the mutant DPA12-2 possessed an 1.7-fold astaxanthin production compared to the wild type, reaching 47.21\xc2\xb13.30mg/g dry cells. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: The known plant viruses mostly infect angiosperm hosts and have RNA or small DNA genomes. The only other lineage of green plants with a relatively well-studied virome, unicellular chlorophyte algae, is mostly infected by viruses with large DNA genomes. Thus RNA viruses and small DNA viruses seem to completely displace large DNA virus genomes in late branching angiosperms. To understand better the expansion of RNA viruses in the taxonomic span between algae and angiosperms, we analyzed the transcriptomes of 66 non-angiosperm plants characterized by the 1000 Plants Genomes Project.RESULTS: We found homologs of virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerases in 28 non-angiosperm plant species, including algae, mosses, liverworts (Marchantiophyta), hornworts (Anthocerotophyta), lycophytes, a horsetail Equisetum, and gymnosperms. Polymerase genes in algae were most closely related to homologs from double-stranded RNA viruses leading latent or persistent lifestyles. Land plants, in addition, contained polymerases close to the homologs from single-stranded RNA viruses of angiosperms, capable of productive infection and systemic spread. For several polymerases, a cognate capsid protein was found in the same library. Another virus hallmark gene family, encoding the 30 K movement proteins, was found in lycophytes and monilophytes but not in mosses or algae.CONCLUSIONS: The broadened repertoire of RNA viruses suggests that colonization of land and growth in anatomical complexity in land plants coincided with the acquisition of novel sets of viruses with different strategies of infection and reproduction. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The necessities of developing fast, portable, cheap and easy to handle pesticide detection platforms are getting attention of scientific and industrial communities. Although there are some approaches to develop microchip based pesticide detection platforms, there is no compact microfluidic device for the complementary, fast, cheap, reusable and reliable analysis of different pesticides. In this work, a microfluidic device is developed for in-situ analysis of pesticide concentration detected via metabolism/photosynthesis of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii algal cells (algae) in tap water. Algae are grown in glass based microfluidic chip, which contains integrated optical pH and oxygen sensors in a portable system for on-site detection. In addition, intrinsic algal fluorescence is detected to analyze the pesticide concentration in parallel to pH and oxygen sensors with integrated fluorescence detectors. The response of the algae under the effect of different concentrations of pesticides is evaluated and complementary inhibition effects depending on the pesticide concentration are demonstrated. The three different sensors allow the determination of various pesticide concentrations in the nanomolar concentration range. The miniaturized system provides the fast quantification of pesticides in less than 10min and enables the study of toxic effects of different pesticides on Chlamydomonas reinhardtii green algae. Consequently, the microfluidic device described here provides fast and complementary detection of different pesticides with algae in a novel glass based microfluidic device with integrated optical pH, oxygen sensors and algal fluorescence. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'There are some different freshwater algae in Eutrophic reservoirs which bloom with specific environmental conditions, and some of them are cyanobacteria. In this investigation, we have cultivated microalgae present in natural water samples from a eutrophic reservoir. Variations in temperature and light were evaluated, as well as the competition among different green algae and cyanobacteria. There were three different freshwater algae growing together, Scenedesmus sp., Kirchneriella sp. and Microcystis aeruginosa, this cyanobacterium was the algae that reached the highest development and growth during the culture. While the algae grew, the concentration of toxin (microcystin-LR) increased until it reached the highest levels at 570\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0g-1. Blooms occurred at temperatures of 28\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.5\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C and light cycles of longer hours of light than dark. This took place during the summer months, from June to September (in the study area). At temperatures below 18\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C, algae did not grow. Blooms were reproduced to a laboratory scale in different conditions in order to understand the development of freshwater algae, as well as to help decision-making about water supply from that reservoir. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Silver iodide is one of the most common nucleating materials used in cloud seeding. Previous cloud seeding studies have concluded that AgI is not practically bioavailable in the environment but instead remains in soils and sediments such that the free Ag amounts are likely too low to induce a toxicological effect. However, none of these studies has considered the continued use of this practice on the same geographical areas and thus the potential cumulative effect of environmental AgI. The aim of this study is to assess the risk of acute toxicity caused by AgI exposure under laboratory conditions at the concentration expected in the environment after repeated treatments on selected soil and aquatic biota. To achieve the aims, the viability of soil bacteria Bacillus cereus and Pseudomonas stutzeri and the survival of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans exposed to different silver iodide concentrations have been evaluated. Freshwater green algae Dictyosphaerium chlorelloides and cyanobacteria Microcystis aeruginosa were exposed to silver iodide in culture medium, and their cell viability and photosynthetic activity were evaluated. Additionally, BOD5 exertion and the Microtox\xc2\xae toxicity test were included in the battery of toxicological assays. Both tests exhibited a moderate AgI adverse effect at the highest concentration (12.5\xc2\xb5M) tested. However, AgI concentrations below 2.5\xc2\xb5M increased BOD5. Although no impact on the growth and survival endpoints in the soil worm C. elegans was recorded after AgI exposures, a moderate decrease in cell viability was found for both of the assessed soil bacterial strains at the studied concentrations. Comparison between the studied species showed that the cyanobacteria were more sensitive than green algae. Exposure to AgI at 0.43\xce\xbcM, the reference value used in monitoring environmental impact, induced a significant decrease in photosynthetic activity that is primarily associated with the respiration (80% inhibition) and, to a lesser extent, the net photosynthesis (40% inhibition) in both strains of phytoplankton and a moderate decrease in soil bacteria viability. These results suggest that AgI from cloud seeding may moderately affect biota living in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems if cloud seeding is repeatedly applied in a specific area and large amounts of seeding materials accumulate in the environment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Hydrophobic pesticides such as pyrethroid insecticides tend to occur in their soluble form mainly as transient pulses in streams. In addition, they are regularly detected in significant quantities adsorbed to stream sediments and other organic in-stream structures. Consequently, stream biota is likely subjected to pesticide exposure via multiple routes. In this study we aimed at investigating the influence of exposure routes for the pyrethroid insecticide lambda-cyhalothrin on the grazing mayfly Heptagenia sulphurea. Therefore, H. sulphurea was exposed to lambda-cyhalothrin via single- (water or biofilm) or biphasic exposure (water and biofilm) at environmentally realistic concentrations (0, 0.1, 1\xce\xbcgL(-1)) and exposure duration (2h) in a full factorial design (n=5). Mortality, moulting frequency, and biofilm accrual (proxy for feeding rate) were recorded subsequent to a 7 d post exposure period. Mortality significantly increased and moulting frequency significantly decreased with increasing concentrations of lambda-cyhalothrin in the water phase whereas exposure via biofilm prompted no significant effects on these endpoints (\xce\xb1=0.05). Effect predictions systematically underestimated and overestimated effects for mortality and moulting frequency, respectively. Similarly, mayfly feeding rate was significantly reduced by water phase exposure whereas pre-exposed biofilm did not significantly affect this variable. However, we found a significant but non-systematic interaction between water phase and biofilm exposure on mayfly feeding rate. Our results show that exposure to the same pesticide via multiple exposure routes may increase the magnitude of effects beyond the level predicted from single phase exposures which has clear implications for the aquatic risk assessment of hydrophobic pesticides. However, our results additionally reveal that interactions between pesticide exposure routes may vary between selected dependent variables. We emphasize that unravelling the underlying mechanisms causing these discrepancies in interactive effects between exposure routes is a major aspect that should receive further attention in future research. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Experiments to re-synthesise lichens so far focused on co-cultures of fungal and algal partners. However, recent studies have revealed that bacterial communities colonise lichens in a stable and host-specific manner. We were therefore interested in testing how lichenised fungi and algae interact with selected bacteria in an experimental setup. We selected the symbiotic system of Schizoxylon albescens and the algal genera Coccomyxa and Trebouxia as a suitable model. We isolated bacterial strains from the naturally occurring bacterial fraction of freshly collected specimens and established tripartite associations under mixed culture experiments. The bacteria belong to Actinobacteria, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria and corresponded to groups already found associated with fungi including lichens. In mixed cultures with Coccomyxa, the fungus formed a characteristic filamentous matrix and tightly contacted the algae; the bacteria distributed in small patches between the algal cells and attached to the cell walls. In mixed cultures with Trebouxia, the fungus did not develop the filamentous matrix, but bacterial cells were observed to be tightly adhering to the fungal hyphae. Our experiments show that this tripartite fungal-algal-bacterial model system can be maintained in culture and can offer multiple opportunities for functional studies based on experiments under controlled conditions in the laboratory. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In order to understand the community structure characteristics of Bacillariophyta and its controlling factors in reservoirs located in the Southeast, China, in the geographic background of hills landscape and humid climate, 18 reservoirs were investigated in June, 2015, during the period with high risk of diatom bloom, covering water quality, and the community structures of phytoplankton. The correlations between Bacillariophyta and other planktons with nutrients, water depth, storage capacity, etc. were analyzed. The results showed that, 10 reservoirs reached the light extent of diatom bloom ( density between 100 x 10\xe2\x81\xb4-1,000 x 10\xe2\x81\xb4 cells \xc2\xb7 L\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9 reservoirs in this area were generally in mesotrophic or eutrophic state with considerably high total nitrogen concentrations; total phosphorus and trophic level index were both closely correlated with Bacillariophyta biomass. Phormidium in Cyanophyta was the dominating generus among phytoplankton in terms of density; with respect to biomass, Bacillariophyta, Chlorophyta and Cyanophyta were the top three phylum, and Bacillariophyta accounted for 46. 8% of the total phytoplankton biomass, becoming the most important one resulting in abnormal propagation of algae; Synedra (51.5%) and Cyclotella (21.4%) were the main dominating genera in Bacillariophyta, together with Achnanthes and Melosira. Deep water was favored by Bacillariophyta to dominate among different phyla. Larger ratio between catchment and reservoir storage capacity, on the other hand, caused the increase of trophic level and chlorophyll, and benefited the shift of dominating phytoplankton from Bacillariophyta to Chlorophyta and Cyanophyta, by which, the risk of algae bloom would be increased. It reveals that to alleviate the risk of algae bloom and protect drinking water resources, catchment management is crucial for the studied reservoirs. And the establishment of nutrient reduction strategies needs to consider the features of each individual reservoir, i. e. water depth, ratio between catchment and capacity. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'To probe organelle genome evolution in the Ulvales/Ulotrichales clade, the newly sequenced chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes of Gloeotilopsis planctonica and Gloeotilopsis sarcinoidea (Ulotrichales) were compared with those of Pseudendoclonium akinetum (Ulotrichales) and of the few other green algae previously sampled in the Ulvophyceae. At 105,236 bp, the G planctonica mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is the largest mitochondrial genome reported so far among chlorophytes, whereas the 221,431-bp G planctonica and 262,888-bp G sarcinoidea chloroplast DNAs (cpDNAs) are the largest chloroplast genomes analyzed among the Ulvophyceae. Gains of non-coding sequences largely account for the expansion of these genomes. Both Gloeotilopsis cpDNAs lack the inverted repeat (IR) typically found in green plants, indicating that two independent IR losses occurred in the Ulvales/Ulotrichales. Our comparison of the Pseudendoclonium and Gloeotilopsis cpDNAs offered clues regarding the mechanism of IR loss in the Ulotrichales, suggesting that internal sequences from the rDNA operon were differentially lost from the two original IR copies during this process. Our analyses also unveiled a number of genetic novelties. Short mtDNA fragments were discovered in two distinct regions of the G sarcinoidea cpDNA, providing the first evidence for intracellular inter-organelle gene migration in green algae. We identified for the first time in green algal organelles, group II introns with LAGLIDADG ORFs as well as group II introns inserted into untranslated gene regions. We discovered many group II introns occupying sites not previously documented for the chloroplast genome and demonstrated that a number of them arose by intragenomic proliferation, most likely through retrohoming. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Surface mining extraction of bitumen from oil sand in Alberta, Canada results in the accumulation of oil sands process-affected water (OSPW). In attempts to maximize water recycling, and because its constituents are recognized as being toxic, OSPW is retained in settling basins. Consequently, research efforts are currently focused on developing remediation strategies capable of detoxifying OSPW to allow for eventual release. One potential bioremediation strategy proposes to utilize phytoplankton native to the Alberta oil sand region to sequester, break down, or modify the complex oil sands acid extractable organic (AEO) mixtures in OSPW. Preliminary attempts to quantify changes in total oil sands AEO concentration in test solutions by ESI-MS following a 14-day algal remediation period revealed the presence of unknown organic acids in control samples, likely released by the phytoplankton strains and often of the same atomic mass range as the oil sands AEO under investigation. To address the presence of these "biogenic" organic acids in test samples, ESI-MS in MRM mode was utilized to identify oil sands AEO "marker ions" that were a) present within the tested oil sands AEO extract and b) unique to the oil sands AEO extract only (e.g. atomic masses different from biogenic organic acids). Using this approach, one of the 21 tested algal strains, Stichococcus sp. 1, proved capable of significantly reducing the AEO marker ion concentration at test concentrations of 10, 30, and 100mgL(-1). This result, along with the accelerated growth rate and recalcitrance of this algal strain with exposure to oil sands AEO, suggests the strong potential for the use of the isolated Stichococcus sp. 1 as a candidate for bioremediation strategies. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"In this study, we conducted a 14-month investigation in Daya Bay, southern China to understand the effects of oyster farming on phytoplankton community and biomass by using size-fractionated phytopigments. Results proved the filtering effects of oysters on phytoplankton biomass. During the oyster culture period, the average concentration of total chlorophyll a (sum of size-fractionated Chl a) within the farming area was approximately 60% lower than that at the reference site. Phytoplankton depletion in the aquaculture zone mainly occurred in micro-sized fractions (>20\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm) of Chl a, fucoxanthin, and peridinin. The influence of oyster filtration on nano-sized (2.7-20\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm) pigments seemed less than that on micro-sized ones. The depletion of peridinin and 19'-hex-fucoxanthin in aquaculture zone was higher than those of the other pigments, which indicated that flagellated cells might be selectively filtered by oysters and could be more easily influenced by oyster aquaculture. The pico-sized Chl a (<2.7\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcm) comprised 24% of total Chl a on the average in the aquaculture zone during the cultural period compared to 6% in the reference site. Picoeukaryote abundance, which was determined via flow cytometry, was significantly higher in the aquaculture zone than in the non-aquaculture areas. The abundance of picoeukaryote is significantly and positively correlated with the concentrations of pico-sized prasinoxanthin, violaxanthin, and neoxanthin, indicating that picoeukaryote is dominated by those in prasinophyte. The results suggest that oyster aquaculture might stimulate the growth of prasinophyte, although the seasonal variations are mainly controlled by the water temperature in the study area. This research highlights the successful use of size-fractionated phytopigments to estimate size-specific phytoplankton biomass and community, which can be applied as a routine method to monitor the environmental effect and food resources of bivalve aquaculture. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Coral reefs worldwide are affected by increasing dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC) and organic carbon (DOC) concentrations due to ocean acidification (OA) and coastal eutrophication. These two stressors can occur simultaneously, particularly in near-shore reef environments with increasing anthropogenic pressure. However, experimental studies on how elevated DIC and DOC interact are scarce and fundamental to understanding potential synergistic effects and foreseeing future changes in coral reef function. Using an open mesocosm experiment, the present study investigated the impact of elevated DIC (pHNBS: 8.2 and 7.8; pCO2: 377 and 1076 \xce\xbcatm) and DOC (added as 833 \xce\xbcmol L-1 of glucose) on calcification and photosynthesis rates of two common calcifying green algae, Halimeda incrassata and Udotea flabellum, in a shallow reef environment. Our results revealed that under elevated DIC, algal photosynthesis decreased similarly for both species, but calcification was more affected in H. incrassata, which also showed carbonate dissolution rates. Elevated DOC reduced photosynthesis and calcification rates in H. incrassata, while in U. flabellum photosynthesis was unaffected and thalus calcification was severely impaired. The combined treatment showed an antagonistic effect of elevated DIC and DOC on the photosynthesis and calcification rates of H. incrassata, and an additive effect in U. flabellum. We conclude that the dominant sand dweller H. incrassata is more negatively affected by both DIC and DOC enrichments, but that their impact could be mitigated when they occur simultaneously. In contrast, U. flabellum can be less affected in coastal eutrophic waters by elevated DIC, but its contribution to reef carbonate sediment production could be further reduced. Accordingly, while the capacity of environmental eutrophication to exacerbate the impact of OA on algal-derived carbonate sand production seems to be species-specific, significant reductions can be expected under future OA scenarios, with important consequences for beach erosion and coastal sediment dynamics. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study evaluates the effect of different concentrations of glucose supplementation on growth, lipid accumulation, and the fatty acid profile in the Auxenochlorella protothecoides. Addition of glucose promoted the growth rate and decreased the chlorophyll content. Compared with photoautotrophic cells, an increase in the lipid content was observed in mixotrophic cells. The glucose addition induced changes in the fatty acid profile. Higher content of saturated fatty acids was found in the case of cells growing in the glucose-free medium. Oleic acid was the predominant component in mixotrophic cells supplemented with 5gL(-1) glucose, while linoleic acids dominated in cultures supplemented with both 1 and 3gL(-1) glucose. The use of glucose was associated with decreased levels of linolenic acid and PUFA. The changes in the fatty acid profile in mixotrophic cells are favourable for biodiesel production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Heavy metals are toxic compounds known to cause multiple and severe cellular damage. However, acidophilic extremophiles are able to cope with very high concentrations of heavy metals. This study investigated the stress response under natural environmental heavy metal concentrations in an acidophilic Dunaliella acidophila. We employed Illumina sequencing for a de novo transcriptome assembly and to identify changes in response to high cadmium concentrations and natural metal-rich water. The photosynthetic performance was also estimated by pulse amplitude-modulated (PAM) fluorescence. Transcriptomic analysis highlights a number of processes mainly related to a high constitutive expression of genes involved in oxidative stress and response to reactive oxygen species (ROS), even in the absence of heavy metals. Photosynthetic activity seems to be unaltered under short-term exposition to Cd and chronic exposure to natural metal-rich water, probably due to an increase in the synthesis of structural photosynthetic components preserving their functional integrity. An overrepresentation of Gene Ontology (GO) terms related to metabolic activities, transcription, and proteosomal catabolic process was observed when D. acidophila grew under chronic exposure to natural metal-rich water. GO terms involved in carbohydrate metabolic process, reticulum endoplasmic and Golgi bodies, were also specifically overrepresented in natural metal-rich water library suggesting an endoplasmic reticulum stress response. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Up to 90% of Dunaliella salina biomass remains unused after extraction of the main product \xce\xb2-carotene. The potential of mild hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) to exploit this biomass as a source of valuable by-products was assessed. The results indicate that 80% of the remnant was converted into glucose by mild HTL (100\xc2\xb0C, 0min). The recovered glucose was successfully used as a carbon source to cultivate biotechnologically relevant microorganisms, namely Chlorella vulgaris, Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Furthermore, the analysis of energy demand and operating costs confirms the beneficial effect of mild liquefaction on the overall process economics of algal \xce\xb2-carotene production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The effects of light-emitting diode (LED) wavelength, light intensity, nitrate concentration, and time of exposure to different LED wavelength stresses in a two-phase culture on lipid production were evaluated in the microalga, Picochlorum atomus. The biomass produced by red LED light was higher than that produced by purple, blue, green, or yellow LED and fluorescent lights from first phase of two-phase culture. The highest lipid production of P. atomus was 50.3% (w/w) with green LED light at 2days of second phase as light stress. Fatty acid analysis of the microalgae showed that palmitic acid (C16:0) and linolenic acid (C18:3) accounted for 84-88% (w/w) of total fatty acids from P. atomus. The two-phase culture of P. atomus is suitable for biofuel production due to higher lipid productivity and favorable fatty acid composition. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A strictly aerobic, Gram-stain-negative, rod-shaped, motile by gliding and yellow-pigmented bacterium, designated strain 7Alg 4T, was isolated from the green alga Cladophora stimpsonii. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the novel strain was affiliated to the family Flavobacteriaceae of the phylum Bacteroidetes, and was most closely related to the recognized species of the genera Lacinutrixand Flavirhabdus, with 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities of 95.1-98.1 and 97.0\xe2\x80\x89%, respectively. Strain 7Alg 4T grew in the presence of 1-5\xe2\x80\x89% NaCl and at 4-32\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C, and hydrolysed aesculin, gelatin, starch and Tween 80. The prevalent fatty acids were iso-C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x891 G, iso-C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890, iso-C17\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890 3-OH, iso-C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890 3-OH and C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890. The polar lipid profile was characterized by the presence of phosphatidylethanolamine, three unidentified aminolipids and four unidentified lipids. The major respiratory quinone was MK-6. The DNA G+C content was 31.9\xe2\x80\x89mol%. On the basis of the differences in 16S rRNA gene sequences, chemotaxonomic and phenotypic characteristics, it is suggested that strain 7Alg 4T represents a novel species of the genus Lacinutrix, for which the name Lacinutrixcladophorae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is 7Alg 4T (=KCTC 23036T=KMM 6381T). Reclassification of Flavirhabdus iliipiscaria as Lacinutrix iliipiscaria comb. nov. and an emend of the genus Lacinutrix are also proposed. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In aquatic environments, copper (Cu) plays important physiological roles in planktonic food chain, such as electron transfer in photosynthesis and constituting proteins that transport oxygen in some arthropods, while at higher concentrations it is toxic on these organisms and higher trophic levels. The combined effects of natural (e.g. volcanic activity) and anthropogenic sources (e.g. mining waste) contribute to the increase in copper pollution in different ecosystems and regions around the world. In the present study, we evaluated the bioaccumulation and effect of Cu on Raphidocelis subcapitata (freshwater algae), and the influence of Cu-contaminated food (algae) on Daphnia laevis (tropical cladoceran). The amount of copper accumulated in microalgae and cladoceran was quantified, and life-history parameters of D. laevis such as growth, reproduction and longevity were measured. The cell density of Cu exposed R. subcapitata declined, and cladoceran fed with contaminated food had lower longevity, production of eggs and neonates, and reduced secondary production. A concentration dependent increase in Cu accumulation was observed in the microalgae, while the opposite occurred in the animal, indicating a cellular metal regulatory mechanism in the latter. However, this regulation seems not to be sufficient to avoid metal induced damages in the cladoceran such as decreased longevity and reproduction. We conclude that diet is an important metal exposure route to this cladoceran, and the assessment of chronic contamination during the complete life cycle of cladoceran provides results that are similar to those observed in natural environments, especially when native organisms are investigated. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether algal oligosac- charide~ affects the levels of parathyroid hormone 1-84 (PTH1-84) and vascular endothelial growth fac- tor (VEGF).METHODS: An osteoporosis rat model was estab- lished via bilateral ovariectomy. The model rats were fed algal oligosaccharides (molecular weights: 600-1, 200 Da) for 4 months. Bone mineral density (BMD) was then measured. MG-63 human osteo- blastic cells were treated with algal oligosaccha- rides. The expression of PTH1-84 and VEGF was then examined. Oligosaccharide-treated cells were transfected with PTH1-84 short hairpin RNA (shR- NA), VEGF shRNA, and PTH1-84-VEGF small interfer- ing RNA (siRNA). The growth rates were then com- pared between transfected and non-transfectedRESULTS: Algal oligosaccharides increased the BMD of the osteoporosis rat model compared with untreated controls (P<0.05). When MG-63 cells were treated with algal oligosaccharides, the growth rate increased by 25% compared with the control group at day 3 (P<0.05). In addition, the ex- pression of P.TH84 and VEGF was. enhanced. Con- versey w hen tecells were tranfected with PTH84 shRNA, VEGF shRNA, or PTH1-84-VEGF siR- NA, the growth rate was decreased by 17%, 35% and 70%, respectively, compared with controls at day 3 (P<0.05).CONCLUSION: Algal oligosaccharides ameliorate osteoporosis via up-regulation of PTH1-84 and VEGF. Algal oligosaccharides should be developed as a potential drug for osteoporosis treatment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study investigated organic matter (OM) and nutrient removal efficiency of mixed algal species from slaughterhouse wastewater (SWW) by using photo-bioreactor. For this purpose, different dilution multiples of 10, 4, and 2 were applied to the SWW, and pure wastewater was finally used for algal cultivation. OM and nutrient removal performance in an algal photo-bioreactor were severely affected by the dilution ratio. After 7\xc2\xa0days of cultivation, the highest removal percentages of total organic carbon (TOC), total nitrogen (TN), and total phosphorus (TP) were 89.6, 70.2, and 96.2\xc2\xa0%, respectively. Furthermore, the changes in eukaryotic algae and cyanobacterial species in the algal photo-bioreactors were investigated using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) techniques. The results indicated that cyanobacterial species were more efficient than eukaryotic species in removing nutrients from the SWW. This study suggests that mixed algal photo-bioreactors could be used efficiently in the treatment of SWW. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Biodegradation of pollutants in soil is greatly limited by the availability of terminal electron acceptors required for supporting microbial respiration. Such limitation can be overcome if soil-buried electrodes accept the electrons released in the microbial metabolism. We propose the term bioelectroventing for such a environmental treatment. The process would be performed in a device so-called Microbial Electroremediating Cell. Indeed, our studies demonstrate that the presence of electrodes as electron acceptors effectively stimulated by 5-fold the biodegradation rate of the herbicide atrazine (2-chloro-4-ethylamino-6-isopropyl amino-1,3,5-triazine) in comparison with soil natural attenuation. Furthermore, a different set of toxicological test using Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata green alga e, Salmonella typhimorium bacteria and Sorghum saccharatum plant seeds respectively, confirm that atrazine-polluted soil can be effectively cleaned-up in short time by the use of MERCs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cholesterol efflux from macrophages is a key process in reverse cholesterol transport and, therefore, might inhibit atherogenesis. 9-cis-\xce\xb2-carotene (9-cis-\xce\xb2c) is a precursor for 9-cis-retinoic-acid (9-cis-RA), which regulates macrophage cholesterol efflux. Our objective was to assess whether 9-cis-\xce\xb2c increases macrophage cholesterol efflux and induces the expression of cholesterol transporters. Enrichment of a mouse diet with \xce\xb2c from the alga Dunaliella led to \xce\xb2c accumulation in peritoneal macrophages. 9-cis-\xce\xb2c increased the mRNA levels of CYP26B1, an enzyme that regulates RA cellular levels, indicating the formation of RA from \xce\xb2c in RAW264.7 macrophages. Furthermore, 9-cis-\xce\xb2c, as well as all-trans-\xce\xb2c, significantly increased cholesterol efflux to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) by 50% in RAW264.7 macrophages. Likewise, food fortification with 9-cis-\xce\xb2c augmented cholesterol efflux from macrophages ex vivo. 9-cis-\xce\xb2c increased both the mRNA and protein levels of ABCA1 and apolipoprotein E (APOE) and the mRNA level of ABCG1. Our study shows, for the first time, that 9-cis-\xce\xb2c from the diet accumulates in peritoneal macrophages and increases cholesterol efflux to HDL. These effects might be ascribed to transcriptional induction of ABCA1, ABCG1, and APOE. These results highlight the beneficial effect of \xce\xb2c in inhibition of atherosclerosis by improving cholesterol efflux from macrophages. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Five strains algae (Golenkinia sp. SDEC-16, Chlorella vulgaris, Selenastrum capricornutum, Scenedesmus SDEC-8 and Scenedesmus SDEC-13) were screened as an effective way to promote recover electricity from MFC for kitchen waste anaerobically digested effluent (KWADE) treatment. The highest OCV, power density, biomass concentration and total lipid content were obtained with Golenkinia sp. SDEC-16 as the co-inoculum, which were 170mV, 6255mWm(-3), 325mgL(-1) and 38%, respectively. Characteristics of the organics in KWADE were analyzed, and the result showed that the hydrophilic and acidic fractions were more readily degraded, compared to the neutral fractions during the operation. Maximum COD and TN removal efficiency were 43.59% and 37.39% when inoculated with Golenkinia sp. SDEC-16, which were roughly 3.22 and 3.04 times higher than that of S. capricornutum. This study demonstrated that Golenkinia sp. SDEC-16 was a promising species for bioelectricity generation, lipid production and KWADE treatment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Fatty acid methyl ester analysis (FAME) by gas chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry (GC-MS) is a widely used technique in biodiesel/bioproduct (e.g. poly-unsaturated fatty acids, PUFA) research but typically does not allow distinguishing between bound and free fatty acids. To understand and optimize biosynthetic pathways, however, the origin of the fatty acid is an important information. Furthermore the annotation of PUFAs is compromised in classical GC-EI-MS because the precursor molecular ion is missing. In the present protocol an alkaline methyl esterification step with TMS derivatization enabling the simultaneous analysis of bound and free fatty acids but also further lipids such as sterols in one GC-MS chromatogram is combined. This protocol is applied to different lipid extracts from single cell algae to higher plants: Chlorella vulgaris, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Coffea arabica, Pisum sativum and Cuscuta japonica. Further, field ionization (GC-FI-MS) is introduced for a better annotation of fatty acids and exact determination of the number of double bonds in PUFAs. The proposed workflow provides a convenient strategy to analyze algae and other plant crop systems with respect to their capacity for third generation biodiesel and high-quality bioproducts for nutrition such as PUFAs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Micromonas is a unicellular motile alga within the Prasinophyceae, a green algal group that is related to land plants. This picoeukaryote (<2 \xce\xbcm diameter) is widespread in the marine environment but is not well understood at the cellular level. Here, we examine shifts in mRNA and protein expression over the course of the day-night cycle using triplicated mid-exponential, nutrient replete cultures of Micromonas pusilla CCMP1545. Samples were collected at key transition points during the diel cycle for evaluation using high-throughput LC-MS proteomics. In conjunction, matched mRNA samples from the same time points were sequenced using pair-ended directional Illumina RNA-Seq to investigate the dynamics and relationship between the mRNA and protein expression programs of M. pusilla. Similar to a prior study of the marine cyanobacterium Prochlorococcus, we found significant divergence in the mRNA and proteomics expression dynamics in response to the light:dark cycle. Additionally, expressional responses of genes and the proteins they encoded could also be variable within the same metabolic pathway, such as we observed in the oxygenic photosynthesis pathway. A regression framework was used to predict protein levels from both mRNA expression and gene-specific sequence-based features. Several features in the genome sequence were found to influence protein abundance including codon usage as well as 3' UTR length and structure. Collectively, our studies provide insights into the regulation of the proteome over a diel cycle as well as the relationships between transcriptional and translational programs in the widespread marine green alga Micromonas. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Shifts in biodiversity and ecological processes in stream ecosystems in response to rapid climate change will depend on how numerically and functionally dominant aquatic insect species respond to changes in stream temperature and hydrology. Across 253 minimally perturbed streams in eight ecoregions in the western USA, we modeled the distribution of 88 individual insect taxa in relation to existing combinations of maximum summer temperature, mean annual streamflow, and their interaction. We used a heat map approach along with downscaled general circulation model (GCM) projections of warming and streamflow change to estimate site-specific extirpation likelihood for each taxon, allowing estimation of whole-community change in streams across these ecoregions. Conservative climate change projections indicate a 30-40% loss of taxa in warmer, drier ecoregions and 10-20% loss in cooler, wetter ecoregions where taxa are relatively buffered from projected warming and hydrologic change. Differential vulnerability of taxa with key functional foraging roles in processing basal resources suggests that climate change has the potential to modify stream trophic structure and function (e.g., alter rates of detrital decomposition and algal consumption), particularly in warmer and drier ecoregions. We show that streamflow change is equally as important as warming in projected risk to stream community composition and that the relative threat posed by these two fundamental drivers varies across ecoregions according to projected gradients of temperature and hydrologic change. Results also suggest that direct human modification of streams through actions such as water abstraction is likely to further exacerbate loss of taxa and ecosystem alteration, especially in drying climates. Management actions to mitigate climate change impacts on stream ecosystems or to proactively adapt to them will require regional calibration, due to geographic variation in insect sensitivity and in exposure to projected thermal warming and hydrologic change. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Four types of reactivity indices were employed to construct quantitative structure-activity relationships for the assessment of toxicity of organic chemical mixtures. Results of analysis indicated that the maximum positive charge of the hydrogen atom and the inverse of the apolar surface area are the most important descriptors for the toxicity of mixture of benzene and its derivatives to Vibrio fischeri. The toxicity of mixture of aromatic compounds to green alga Scenedesmus obliquus is mainly affected by the electron flow and electrostatic interactions. The electron-acceptance chemical potential and the maximum positive charge of the hydrogen atom are found to be the most important descriptors for the joint toxicity of aromatic compounds. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Emerging contaminants including pharmaceuticals are a class of compounds that are causing great concern due to several environmental problems. Conventional water and wastewater treatments do not achieve high removal efficiencies for many of these drugs. Therefore, the present work investigated the removal of ibuprofen (IBP) by heterogeneous photocatalysis using TiO2 irradiated with artificial UV light or solar radiation. The treated solutions were tested against Daphnia similis and Raphidocelis subcapitata, which are species commonly used as bioindicators of environmental conditions. The results indicated that IBP removal reached 92\xc2\xa0% after 1\xc2\xa0h of treatment using artificial UV and 1000\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1) of TiO2, which was the optimum catalyst concentration in the range studied (20-1000\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)). TOC removal reached up to 78\xc2\xa0% after 60\xc2\xa0min of treatment using TiO2/artificial UV. Ecotoxicological bioassays indicated that the treated solutions had acute effects, with 30\xc2\xa0% immobilization of D. similis and 40\xc2\xa0% growth inhibition of R. subcapitata. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Modern microbialites are often used as analogs of Precambrian stromatolites; therefore, studying the metabolic interplay within their associated microbial communities can help formulating hypotheses on their formation and long-term preservation within the fossil record. We performed a comparative metagenomic analysis of microbialite samples collected at two sites and along a depth gradient in Lake Alchichica (Mexico). The community structure inferred from single-copy gene family identification and long-contig (>10 kb) assignation, consistently with previous rRNA gene surveys, showed a wide prokaryotic diversity dominated by Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, Cyanobacteria, and Bacteroidetes, while eukaryotes were largely dominated by green algae or diatoms. Functional analyses based on RefSeq, COG and SEED assignations revealed the importance of housekeeping functions, with an overrepresentation of genes involved in carbohydrate metabolism, as compared with other metabolic capacities. The search for genes diagnostic of specific metabolic functions revealed the important involvement of Alphaproteobacteria in anoxygenic photosynthesis and sulfide oxidation, and Cyanobacteria in oxygenic photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation. Surprisingly, sulfate reduction appeared negligible. Comparative analyses suggested functional similarities among various microbial mat and microbialite metagenomes as compared with soil or oceans, but showed differences in microbial processes among microbialite types linked to local environmental conditions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Ostreobium is an endolithic algal genus thought to be an early-diverging lineage of the Bryopsidales (Ulvophyceae, Chlorophyta). Ostreobium can live in low-light conditions on calcium carbonate substrata in tropical conditions. It is best known as a symbiont of corals, where it lives deep within the animal skeleton and exchanges nitrogen and carbon, as well as providing nutrients and photoassimilates. In contrast to the relatively well-studied role of the photosynthetic zooxanthellae symbionts in coral (Symbiodinium), Ostreobium phylogeny, diversity and distribution are all poorly understood. Here, we describe the phylogenetic position and diversity of Ostreobium based on plastid 16S ribosomal DNA (rDNA), 18S rDNA and rbcL genes from a nuclear genome survey and complete plastid genome, and determined its environmental diversity and distribution by screening the publicly available environmental data for those genes. The results shed light on the phylogeny and the ecology of the 'other' coral symbiont. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Worldwide threats of fuel shortages in the near future and climate change because of greenhouse gas emissions are posing severe challenges and therefore it is vital to search for sustainable ways of preventing the consequences. The dual use of microalgae for phycoremediation and biomass production for sustainable biofuel production is a viable choice. Phycoremediation of As(III) and As(V) ions using microalgae was investigated in a two-staged batch reactor. Accumulation and toxicity of inorganic arsenic forms (As(III) and As(V)) to green microalgae Botryococcus braunii depend on environmental factors. Dissolved oxygen and pH cycles did not significantly differ due to the absence or presence of arsenic (either As(III) or As(V)) ions in the culture. Monod model was utilized for representing the growth kinetics of microalgae in pure media containing various concentrations of nitrate ions. Maximum specific growth rate and saturation constant were found to be 0.14788\xc2\xa0d-1and 0.00105\xc2\xa0g/L, respectively. With the increase in concentration of phosphate in growth medium, the growth of microalgae increased. Media with NaCl (1.0\xc2\xa0g/L) and NaHCO3(1\xc2\xa0g/L) resulted in higher maximum biomass concentration. Effect of coexisting ions on phycoremediation of As(III) and As(V) ions using microalgae was studied. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The use of microalgae for biomethane production has been considerably increasing during the recent years. In this study, four dominant species belonging to the genera Scenedesmus, Chlorella, Dunaliella and Nostoc were selected. The influence of different genera with several morphological, structural and physicochemical characteristics on methane production was assessed in biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests. The ultimate methane yield values were 332 \xc2\xb1 24, 211 \xc2\xb1 2, 63 \xc2\xb1 17 and 28 \xc2\xb1 10\xc2\xa0mL CH4/g VSadded for Scenedesmus obliquus, Chlorella sorokiniana, Dunaliella salina and Nostoc sp., respectively. The highest methane production was achieved by microalga species that had no complex cell wall or wall basically composed by proteins and simple sugars such as in S. obliquus, whereas lower methane yields were found for D. salina and Nostoc sp., due to the salinity effects and cell wall composition in terms of complex polysaccharide and glycolipid layers, respectively. Kinetic constant values obtained in the BMP tests ranged between 1.00 \xc2\xb1 0.08 and 0.097 \xc2\xb1 0.005\xc2\xa0days(-1) for D. salina and S. obliquus, respectively. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: For thousands of years, Tunisian geothermal water has been used in bathing. Indeed, thermal baths "Hammam" were recommended in the treatment of different type of illnesses as, for instance, for relaxing joints and soothing. The ability of microalgae to sustain at the high temperature makes them potential producers of high value thermostable bio-products. This study aimed to explore the therapeutic potential of the aqueous extracellular polysaccharides (AEPS) of the Tunisian thermophilic microalgae Graesiella sp. and to evaluate its physico-chemical characteristics.METHODS: Different parameters were used to characterize the AEPS. The dry weight, volatile dry weight, elemental analysis, monosaccharide composition and IR-spectroscopy analysis. Carbohydrate, uronic acid, ester sulfate and protein concentrations were also determined using colorimetric assay. AEPS was analyzed for its antioxidant propriety by means of total antioxidant capacity, DPPH radicals scavenging assay, ferrous chelating ability and hydroxyl and superoxide radical scavenging activity. The antiproliferative activity of AEPS was evaluated for HepG2 and Caco-2 cells using the MTT assay.RESULTS: The Graesiella sp. AEPS is found to be a hetero-sulfated-anionic polysaccharides that contain carbohydrate (52\xc2\xa0%), uronic acids (23\xc2\xa0%), ester sulfate (11\xc2\xa0%) and protein (12\xc2\xa0%). The carbohydrate fraction was formed by eight neutral sugars glucose, galactose, mannose, fucose, rhamnose, xylose, arabinose and ribose. The FT-IR revealed the presence of carboxyl, hydroxyl, amine and sulfate groups. AEPS showed high activity as reducing agent, high ferrous chelating capacity and caused a significant decrease in a concentration-dependent manner of hydroxyl radical. A moderate DPPH scavenging activity and a poor superoxide radical scavenging ability were also observed. AEPS treatment (from 0.01 to 2.5\xc2\xa0mg/ml) caused also a clear decrease of cell viabilities in a dose-dependent manner. The IC50 values obtained in HepG2 and Caco-2 cells were 1.06\xc2\xa0mg/ml and 0.3\xc2\xa0mg/ml respectively.CONCLUSIONS: This study evidenced that the Graesiella sp. AEPS exhibits antioxidant and antiproliferative activities. The biological activities of this extract depend on its fine structural features. Further work will identify and purify the active polysaccharides to enhance our understanding of their complete structure and relationships with its function. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the Hydra vulgaris group, only 2 of the 25 strains in the collection of the National Institute of Genetics in Japan currently show endosymbiosis with green algae. However, whether the other non-symbiotic strains also have the potential to harbor algae remains unknown. The endosymbiotic potential of non-symbiotic strains that can harbor algae may have been acquired before or during divergence of the strains. With the aim of understanding the evolutionary process of endosymbiosis in the H. vulgaris group, we examined the endosymbiotic potential of non-symbiotic strains of the H. vulgaris group by artificially introducing endosymbiotic algae. We found that 12 of the 23 non-symbiotic strains were able to harbor the algae until reaching the grand-offspring through the asexual reproduction by budding. Moreover, a phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial genome sequences showed that all the strains with endosymbiotic potential grouped into a single cluster (cluster \xce\xb3). This cluster contained two strains (J7 and J10) that currently harbor algae; however, these strains were not the closest relatives. These results suggest that evolution of endosymbiosis occurred in two steps; first, endosymbiotic potential was gained once in the ancestor of the cluster \xce\xb3 lineage; second, strains J7 and J10 obtained algae independently after the divergence of the strains. By demonstrating the evolution of the endosymbiotic potential in non-symbiotic H. vulgaris group strains, we have clearly distinguished two evolutionary steps. The step-by-step evolutionary process provides significant insight into the evolution of endosymbiosis in cnidarians. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Strain selection is one of the primary hurdles facing cost-effective microalgal biodiesel production. Indeed, the strain used affects both upstream and downstream biodiesel production processes. This study presents a screening procedure that considers the most significant criteria in microalgal biodiesel production including TAG production and wet extraction and recovery of TAGs. Fourteen freshwater and seawater strains were investigated. Large variation was observed between the strains in all the screening criteria. The overall screening procedure ultimately led to the identification of Parachlorella kessleri UTEX2229 and Nannochloropsis gaditana CCMP527 as the best freshwater and seawater strains, respectively. They featured the largest areal TAG productivity equal to 2.7\xc3\x9710(-3) and 2.3\xc3\x9710(-3)kgm(-2)d(-1), respectively. These two strains also displayed encouraging cell fragility in a high pressure bead milling process with 69% and 98% cell disruption at 1750bar making them remarkable strains for TAG extraction in wet environment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Vitrification offers a cost-effective solution for the preservation and management of genetic resources with, low-cost international movement of selected genetic materials and for long-term maintenance of stable stocks of a wide variety of microorganisms. However, its success is limited by the wide range of algal species. Here, we report a simple open encapsulation-vitrification protocol of cryopreservation. Results showed that \xe2\x88\xbc58% and \xe2\x88\xbc27% of Oocystis sp. survived vitrification-warming after the open and closed system of vitrification respectively when compared to non-cryopreserved controls. The improved success in an open system of vitrification was also observed in Anabaena sp. Furthermore, with the addition of 2-mercaptoethanol or glutathione the post-warming viability of vitrified algae in both open and closed system of vitrification was significantly improved (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). The present case study aimed to develop a vitrification-based cryopreservation protocol and confirms an improvement in survival percentage over conventional encapsulation-vitrification method. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"The balanced-diet hypothesis states that a diverse prey community is beneficial to consumers due to resource complementarity among the prey species. Nonselective consumer species cannot differentiate between prey items and are therefore not able to actively regulate their diet intake. We thus wanted to test whether the balanced-diet hypothesis is applicable to nonselective consumers. We conducted a laboratory experiment in which a nonselective model grazer, the freshwater gastropod Lymnaea stagnalis, was fed benthic green algae as single species or as a multi-species mixture and quantified the snails' somatic growth rates and shell lengths over a seven-week period. Gastropods fed the mixed diet were found to exhibit a higher somatic growth rate than the average of the snails fed single prey species. However, growth on the multi-species mixture did not exceed the growth rate obtained on the best single prey species. Similar results were obtained regarding the animals' shell height increase over time. The mixed diet did not provide the highest growth rate, which confirms our hypothesis. We thus suggest that the balanced-diet hypothesis is less relevant for non-selective generalist consumers, which needs to be considered in estimates of secondary production. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Acute toxic effects of potassium bromate, sodium bromate and potassium bromide on luminescent bacteria, water flea, green alga and zebrafish were studied using standard toxic testing methods. The results showed that the pollutants had no effect on the luminous intensity of luminescent bacteria. The 96 h EC5. of potassium bromate on Scenedesmus obliquus was 738.18 mg x L(-1), 48 h EC50 on Daphnia magna and Moina was 154.01 mg x L(-1) was 161.80 mg x L(-1), while 48 h LC50 was 198 52 mg x L(-1), 175.68 mg x L(-1), and 96 h LC50 on zebrafish was 931.4 mg x L(-1). The 96 h EC50 of sodium bromate on Scenedesmus obliquus was 540.26 mg x L(-1), 48 h EC50 Daphnia magna and Moina was 127.90 mg x L(-1), 111.07 mg x L(-1), while 48 h LC50 was 161.80 mg x L(-1), 123.47 mg x L(-1), and 96 h LC50 on zebrafish was 1065.6 mg x L(-1). But the effects of potassium bromide on the above several kinds of aquatic organisms were far smaller than those of potassium bromate and sodium bromate. The toxic effects on test organisms were due to the impacts of bromate after the comparison of different pollutants, and the effects were more obvious with the increase of exposure time. The order of sensitivity to the toxic effects of bromate was Daphnia magna, Moina>Scenedesmus obliquus>zebrafish>Chlorella vulgaris, luminescent bacteria. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'An effective transformation protocol for Dunaliella, a \xce\xb2-carotene producer, was developed using the synergistic mechanism of D-glucose and Acetosyringone on three different Agrobacterium strains (EHA105, GV3101 and LBA4404). In the present study, we investigated the pre-induction of Agrobacterium strains harboring pMDC45 binary vector in TAP media at varying concentrations of D-glucose (5 mM, 10 mM, and 15mM) and 100 \xce\xbcM of Acetosyringone for co-cultivation. Induction of Agrobacterium strains with 10 mM D-glucose and 100 \xce\xbcM Acetosyringone showed higher rates of efficiency compared to other treatments. The presence of GFP and HPT transgenes as a measure of transformation efficiency from the transgenic lines were determined using fluorescent microscopy, PCR, and southern blot analyzes. Highest transformation rate was obtained with the Agrobacterium strain LBA4404 (181 \xc2\xb1 3.78 cfu per 106 cells) followed by GV3101 (128 \xc2\xb1 5.29 cfu per 106 cells) and EHA105 (61 \xc2\xb1 5.03 cfu per 106 cells). However, the Agrobacterium strain GV3101 exhibited more efficient single copy transgene (HPT) transfer into the genome of D. salina than LBA4404. Therefore, future studies dealing with genetic modifications in D. salina can utilize GV3101 as an optimal Agrobacterium strain for gene transfer. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A rapid and accurate determination method of lipids in microalgae plays a significant role in an efficient breeding process for high-lipid production of microalgae. Using low field nuclear magnetic resonance (LF-NMR), we developed a direct quantitative method for cellular lipids in Chlorella protothecoides cells. The LF-NMR signal had a linear relationship with the lipid content in the microalgae cells for both dry cell samples and algal broth samples (R2>0.99). These results indicated that we could use this method for accurate determination of microalgal lipids. Although LF-NMR is a rapid and easy lipid determination method in comparison to conventional methods, low efficiency would limit its application in high throughput screening. Therefore, we developed a novel combined high throughput screening method for high-lipid content mutants of C. protothecoides. Namely, we initially applied Nile red staining method for semi-quantification of lipid in the pre-screening process, and following with LF-NMR method for accurate lipid determination in re-screening process. Finally, we adopted this novel screening method in the breeding process of high-lipid content heterotrophic cells of C. protothecoides. From 3 098 mutated strains 108 high-lipid content strains were selected through pre-screening process, and then 9 mutants with high-lipid production were obtained in the re-screening process. In a consequence, with heterotrophical cultivation of 168 h, the lipid concentration could reach 5 g/L, and the highest lipid content exceeded 20% (W/W), which was almost two-fold to that of the wild strain. All these results demonstrated that the novel breeding process was reliable and feasible for improving the screening efficiency. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this work, the toxicity of lake sediments contaminated with DDT and its metabolites DDD and DDE (collectively, DDX) was evaluated with widely used toxicity tests (i.e., Vibrio fischeri, Daphnia magna, Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, and Lumbriculus variegatus) and with the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, a model organism that is also suitable for studying pollutant-induced alterations at the molecular and cellular levels. Although the DDX concentration in the sediments was high (732.5 ppb), the results suggested a minimal environmental risk; in fact, no evidence of harmful effects was found using the different bioassays or when we considered the results of more sensitive sublethal biomarkers in D. discoideum amoebae. In line with the biological results, the chemical data showed that the concentration of DDX in the pore water (in general a highly bioavailable phase) showed a minimal value (0.0071ppb). To confirm the importance of the bioavailability of the toxic chemicals in determining their biological effects and to investigate the mechanisms of DDX toxicity, we exposed D. discoideum amoebae to 732.5ppb DDX in water solution. DDX had no effect on cell viability; however, a strong reduction in amoebae replication rate was observed, which depended mainly on a reduction in endocytosis rate and on lysosomal and mitochondrial alterations. In the presence of a moderate and transient increase in reactive oxygen species, the glutathione level in DDX-exposed amoebae drastically decreased. These results highlight that studies of the bioavailability of pollutants in environmental matrices and their biological effects are essential for site-specific ecological risk assessment. Moreover, glutathione depletion in DDX-exposed organisms is a new finding that could open the possibility of developing new pesticide mixtures that are more effective against DDT-resistant malaria vectors. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The acute toxicity of herbicides to algae is commonly assessed under conditions (e.g., light intensity, water temperature, concentration of nutrients, pH) prescribed by standard test protocols. However, the observed toxicity may vary with changes in one or more of these parameters. This study examined variation in toxicity of the herbicide atrazine to a representative green algal species Raphidocelis subcapitata (formerly Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata) with changes in light intensity, water temperature, concentrations of nutrients or combinations of these three parameters. Conditions were chosen that could be representative of the intensive corn growing Midwestern region of the United States of America where atrazine is used extensively. Varying light intensity (4-58\xc2\xb5mol/m(2)s) resulted in no observable trend in 96-h EC50 values for growth rate. EC50 values for PSII yield generally increased with decreasing light intensity but not significantly in all cases. The 96-h EC50 values for growth rate decreased with decreases in temperature (20-5\xc2\xb0C) from standard conditions (25\xc2\xb0C), but EC50 values for PSII yield at lower temperatures were not significantly different from standard conditions. Finally, there was no clear trend in 96-h EC50 values for both endpoints with increases in nitrogen (4.1-20mg/L) and phosphorus (0.24-1.2mg/L). The 96-h EC50 values for both endpoints under combinations of conditions mimicking aquatic systems in the Midwestern U.S. were not significantly different from EC50 values generated under standard test conditions. This combination of decreased light intensity and temperature and increased nutrients relative to standard conditions does not appear to significantly affect the observed toxicity of atrazine to R. subcapitata. For atrazine specifically, and for perhaps other herbicides, this means current laboratory protocols are useful for extrapolating to effects on algae under realistic environmental conditions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Classically, lichen phycobionts are described as poikilohydric organisms able to undergo desiccation due to the constitutive presence of molecular protection mechanisms. However, little is known about the induction of cellular responses in lichen phycobionts during drying. The analysis of the lipid composition of the desiccated lichen microalga Asterochloris erici revealed the unusual accumulation of highly polar lipids (oligogalactolipids and phosphatidylinositol), which prevents the fusion of membranes during stress, but also the active degradation of cone-shaped lipids (monogalactosyldiacylglycerol and phosphatidylethanolamine) to stabilize membranes in desiccated cells. The level of phosphatidic acid increased 7-fold during desiccation, implicating a possible role for phospholipase D (PLD) in the response to osmotic stress. Inhibition of PLD with 1-butanol markedly impaired the recovery of photosynthesis activity in A. erici upon desiccation and salt stress (2 M NaCl). These two hyperosmotic stresses caused the phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38-like mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and the dephosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). The incubation with 1-butanol reduced the phosphorylation of JNK-like proteins and increased the dephosphorylation of ERK-like proteins, which indicates an upstream control of MAPK cascades by PLD. The phosphoproteome showed that desiccation caused the phosphorylation of several proteins in A. erici, most of them involved in protein turnover. The results demonstrate that lichen phycobionts possess both constitutive and inducible protective mechanisms to acquire desiccation tolerance. Among others, these responses are controlled by the PLD pathway through the activation of MAPK cascades. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Sodium carbonate peroxyhydrate (SCP) is a granular algaecide containing H2O2 as an active ingredient to control growth of noxious algae. Measurements of sensitivities of target and non-target species to hydrogen peroxide are necessary for water resource managers to make informed decisions and minimize risks for non-target species when treating noxious algae. The objective of this study was to measure and compare responses among a target noxious alga (cyanobacterium Microcystis aeruginosa) and non-target organisms including a eukaryotic alga (chlorophyte Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata), microcrustacean (Ceriodaphnia dubia), benthic amphipod (Hyalella azteca), and fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas) to exposures of hydrogen peroxide as SCP. Hydrogen peroxide exposures were confirmed using the I3(-) method. SCP margins of safety for these organisms were compared with published toxicity data to provide context for other commonly used algaecides and herbicides (e.g. copper formulations, endothall, and diquat dibromide). Algal responses (cell density and chlorophyll a concentrations) and animal mortality were measured after 96h aqueous exposures to SCP in laboratory-formulated water to estimate EC50 and LC50 values, as well as potency slopes. Despite a shorter test duration, M. aeruginosa was more sensitive to hydrogen peroxide as SCP (96h EC50:0.9-1.0mgL(-)(1) H2O2) than the eukaryotic alga P. subcapitata (7-d EC50:5.2-9.2mgL(-1) H2O2), indicating potential for selective control of prokaryotic algae. For the three non-target animals evaluated, measured 96-h LC50 values ranged from 1.0 to 19.7mgL(-1) H2O2. C. dubia was the most sensitive species, and the least sensitive species was P. promelas, which is not likely to be affected by concentrations of hydrogen peroxide as SCP that would be used to control noxious algae (e.g. M. aeruginosa). Based on information from peer-reviewed literature, other algaecides could be similarly selective for cyanobacteria. Of the algaecides compared, SCP can selectively mitigate risks associated with noxious cyanobacterial growths (e.g. M. aeruginosa), with an enhanced margin of safety for non-target species (e.g. P. promelas). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Among many antioxidants that are used for the repairing of oxidative stress induced skin damages, we identified the enriched astaxanthin extract (EAE) from Haematococcus pluvialis as a viable ingredient. EAE was extracted from the red microalgae through supercritical fluid carbon dioxide extraction. To compare the effectiveness, EAE wastreated on human dermal fibroblasts with other components, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), and doxycycline. With sirius red staining and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), we found that PMA decreased the collagen concentration and production while overall the addition of doxycycline and EAE increased the collagen concentration in a trial experiments. EAE increased collagen contents through inhibited MMP1 and MMP3 mRNA expression and induced TIMP1, the antagonists of MMPs protein, gene expression. As for when tested for various proteins through western blotting, it was seen that the addition of EAE increased the expression of certain proteins that promote cell proliferation. Testing those previous solutions using growth factor assay, it was noticeable that EAE had a positive impact on cell proliferation and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) than doxycycline, indicating that it was a better alternative treatment for collagen production. To sum up, the data confirmed the possible applications as medical cosmetology agentsand food supplements. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The purpose of this study was to assess the ecotoxic potential of a new zero-valent iron nanomaterial produced for the elimination of chlorinated pollutants at contaminated sites. Abiotic dechlorination through the newly developed nanoscale zero-valent iron material and its effects on dechlorinating bacteria were investigated in anaerobic batch and column experiments. The aged, i.e. oxidized, iron material was characterization with dynamic light scattering, transmission electron microscopy and energy dispersive x-ray analysis, x-ray diffractometry and cell-free reactive oxygen measurements. Furthermore, it was evaluated in aerobic ecotoxicological test systems with algae, crustacean, and fish, and also applied in a mechanism specific test for mutagenicity. The anaerobic column experiments showed co-occurrence of abiotic and biological dechlorination of the common groundwater contaminant perchloroethene. No prolonged toxicity of the nanomaterial (measured for up to 300 days) towards the investigated dechlorinating microorganism was observed. The nanomaterial has a flake like appearance and an inhomogeneous size distribution. The toxicity to crustacean and fish was calculated and the obtained EC50 values were 163\xc2\xa0mg/L and 458\xc2\xa0mg/L, respectively. The nanomaterial showed no mutagenicity. It physically interacted with algae, which had implications for further testing and the evaluation of the results. Thus, the newly developed iron nanomaterial was slightly toxic in its reduced state but no prolonged toxicity was recorded. The aquatic tests revealed a low toxicity with EC50 values\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa5\xc2\xa0163\xc2\xa0mg/L. These concentrations are unlikely to be reached in the aquatic environment. Hence, this nanomaterial is probably of no environmental concern not prohibiting its application for groundwater remediation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Earlier studies show that the proliferation of phytoplankton viruses can be inhibited by depletion of soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP; orthophosphate). In natural marine waters, phytoplankton phosphorus (P) availability is, however, largely determined by the supply rate of SRP (e.g. through remineralization) and potentially by the source of P as well (i.e. the utilization of soluble non-reactive P; SNP). Here we show how a steady low supply of P (mimicking natural P recycling) to virally infected P-limited Micromonas pusilla stimulates virus proliferation. Independent of the degree of P limitation prior to infection (0.32 and 0.97\xce\xbcmax chemostat cultures), SRP supply resulted in 2-fold higher viral burst sizes (viruses lysed per host cell) as compared with no addition (P starvation). Delaying these spikes during the infection cycle showed that the added SRP was utilized for extra M. pusilla virus (MpV) production far into the lytic cycle (18 h post-infection). Moreover, P-limited M. pusilla utilized several SNP compounds with high efficiency and with the same extent of burst size stimulation as for SRP. Finally, addition of virus-free MpV lysate (representing a complex SNP mixture) to newly infected cells enhanced MpV production, implicating host-associated alkaline phosphatase activity, and highlighting its important role in oligotrophic environments. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'River macrophytes are widely used in freshwater ecosystem assessment because of their sensitivity to anthropogenic pressures, even if there are only a few studies that investigated how macrophytes respond to water regime alterations. In this study, we analyzed the effects of dams on river macrophyte communities through a comparison between upstream and downstream sides from 18 dams located in Alps and Apennines. A co-inertia analysis and a Mantel test were applied to assess if the analysis of environmental parameters could be effective in predicting macrophyte community structure. We analyzed morphological and physicochemical inter-site differences and tested the influence of dams on various aspects of community structure (composition, richness, diversity, dominance, coverage) using multivariate randomized block permutation procedure. Plant similarity between sites was evaluated at the level of phylum, and indicator species analysis was performed to identify the taxa most sensitive or tolerant to water regulation. We found that the overall environmental setting overwhelms the dam impact and that the influence of hydrological alteration became apparent when comparing upstream and downstream assemblages at the same dam. In particular, we found that most of taxa had a higher affinity with the downstream side and that in general, stream regulation increases plant richness and coverage, but reduces community evenness. Analyses based on higher taxonomic groups (phyla) demonstrated that this community can be effectively used in bioassessment even at phylum level analysis. In particular, we found that bryophytes, strictly linked with changes in substrate stability, show particular sensitivity to water regulation in mountain streams. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This paper aims to acquire the experimental data on the eco-toxicological effects of agricultural pollutants on the aquatic plants and the data can support the assessment of toxicity on the phytoplankton. The pesticide of Chlorpyrifos used as a good model to investigate its eco-toxicological effect on the different microalgae in freshwater. In order to address the pollutants derived from forestry and agricultural applications, freshwater microalgae were considered as a good sample to investigate the impact of pesticides such as Chlorpyrifos on aquatic life species. Two microalgae of Chlorella pyrenoidosa and Merismopedia sp. were employed to evaluate toxicity of Chlorpyrifos in short time and long time by means of measuring the growth inhibition rate, the redox system and the content of chlorophyll a, respectively. In this study, the results showed that EC50 values ranging from 7.63 to 19.64mg/L, indicating the Chlorpyrifos had a relatively limited to the growth of algae during the period of the acute toxicity experiment. Moreover, when two kinds of algae were exposed to a medium level of Chlorpyrifos, SOD and CAT activities were importantly advanced. Therefore, the growth rate and SOD and CAT activities can be highly recommended for the eco-toxicological assessment. In addition, chlorophyll a also could be used as a targeted parameter for assessing the eco-toxicity of Chlorpyrifos on both Chlorella pyrenoidosa and Merismopedia sp. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this study chemical analyses and ecotoxicity tests were applied for the assessment of a heavily hydrocarbon-contaminated soil prior and after the application of a remediation procedure that consisted in the stimulation of soil autochthonous populations of hydrocarbon degraders in static-ventilated biopiles. Terrestrial bioassays were applied in mixtures of test soils and artificial control soil and studied the survival and reproduction of Eisenia fetida and the avoidance response of E. fetida and Folsomia candida. Effects on aquatic organisms were studied by means of acute tests with Vibrio fischeri, Raphidocelis subcapitata, and Daphnia magna performed on aqueous elutriates from test soils. The bioremediation procedure led to a significant reduction in the concentration of hydrocarbons (from 34264 to 3074\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0kg(-1), i.e., 91\xc2\xa0% decrease) and toxicity although bioassays were not able to report a percentage decrease of toxicity as high as the percentage reduction. Sublethal tests proved the most sensitive terrestrial bioassays and avoidance tests with earthworms and springtails showed potential as monitoring tools of hydrocarbon remediation due to their high sensitivity and short duration. The concentrations of hydrocarbons in water extracts from test soils were 130 and 100\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L(-1) before and after remediation, respectively. Similarly to terrestrial tests, most aquatic bioassays detected a significant reduction in toxicity, which was almost negligible at the end of the treatment. D. magna survival was the most affected by soil elutriates although toxicity to the crustacean was associated to the salinity of the samples rather than to the concentration of hydrocarbons. Ecotoxicity tests with aqueous soil elutriates proved less relevant in the assessment of hydrocarbon-contaminated soils due to the low hydrosolubility of hydrocarbons and the influence of the physicochemical parameters of the aquatic medium. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Over the last decade reports of animal poisoning following accidental consumption of neurotoxin-producing benthic cyanobacteria (mainly Phormidium spp.) have increased. There is a need for rapid and cost-effective tools to survey benthic cyanobacteria. In this study we assessed the performance of the BenthoTorch, a fluorometric probe that provides in situ estimations of cyanobacteria, diatoms and green algae biomass in biofilms. Biofilms (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0288) were analysed from two rivers in France and eight in New Zealand. Correlations between chlorophyll-a measured using the BenthoTorch and spectrophotometry were higher for thin (<2\xc2\xa0mm) compared to thick (>2\xc2\xa0mm) biofilms (r(2)\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.58 and 0.27 respectively; p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). When cyanobacteria represented less than 50% of the total biomass (based on biovolumes), microscopic and BenthoTorch compositional estimations were significantly correlated (r(2)\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.53, p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Conversely, there was no correlation when cyanobacteria exceeded 50% of the total biomass. Under this scenario diatoms were overestimated. Our results suggest that the observed biases occur because the BenthoTorch only measures the upper biofilm layer and it underestimates the biomass of phycoerythrin-containing cyanobacteria. To improve the performance of this sensor and render it a useful tool for a rapid evaluation of benthic cyanobacterial biomass in rivers, we propose that: (i) the algorithms based on the LEDs responses currently available on this tool need revision, (ii) new excitation wavelengths should be included that allow the fingerprints of phycoerythrin-containing cyanobacteria to be discriminated, and (iii) a sensor that penetrates the biofilms is needed to obtain more accurate estimates of cyanobacterial biomass. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In view of the potential use of pyrolysis-based technologies, it is crucial to understand the environmental hazards of pyrolysis-derived products, in particular bio-oils. Here, three bio-oils were produced from fast pyrolysis of pine wood and intermediate pyrolysis of corn stalk and poultry litter. They were fully characterized by chemical analysis and tested for their biodegradability and their ecotoxicity on the crustacean Daphnia magna and the green alga Raphidocelis subcapitata. These tests were chosen as required by the European REACH regulation. These three bio-oils were biodegradable, with 40-60% of biodegradation after 28 days, and had EC50 values above 100mgL(-1) for the crustacean and above 10mgL(-1) for the alga, showing low toxicity to the aquatic life. The toxic unit approach was applied to verify whether the observed toxicity could be predicted from the data available for the substances detected in the bio-oils. The predicted values largely underestimated the experimental values. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Comprehensive studies of the biodiversity of the microbial epilithic community on monuments may provide critical insights for clarifying factors involved in the colonization processes. We carried out a high-throughput investigation of the communities colonizing the medieval church of San Leonardo di Siponto (Italy) by Illumina-based deep sequencing. The metagenomic analysis of sequences revealed the presence of Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. Bacteria were Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Cyanobacteria, Chloroflexi, Firmicutes and Candidatus Saccharibacteria. The predominant phylum was Actinobacteria, with the orders Actynomycetales and Rubrobacteriales, represented by the genera Pseudokineococcus, Sporichthya, Blastococcus, Arthrobacter, Geodermatophilus, Friedmanniella, Modestobacter, and Rubrobacter, respectively. Cyanobacteria sequences showing strong similarity with an uncultured bacterium sequence were identified. The presence of the green algae Oocystaceae and Trebuxiaceae was revealed. The microbial diversity was explored at qualitative and quantitative levels, evaluating the richness (the number of operational taxonomic units (OTUs)) and the abundance of reads associated with each OTU. The rarefaction curves approached saturation, suggesting that the majority of OTUs were recovered. The results highlighted a structured community, showing low diversity, made up of extremophile organisms adapted to desiccation and UV radiation. Notably, the microbiome appeared to be composed not only of microorganisms possibly involved in biodeterioration but also of carbonatogenic bacteria, such as those belonging to the genus Arthrobacter, which could be useful in bioconservation. Our investigation demonstrated that molecular tools, and in particular the easy-to-run next-generation sequencing, are powerful to perform a microbiological diagnosis in order to plan restoration and protection strategies. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Chlorella and Stichococcus are morphologically simple airborne microalgae, omnipresent in terrestrial and aquatic habitats. The minute cell size and resistance against environmental stress facilitate their long-distance dispersal. However, the actual distribution of Chlorella- and Stichococcus-like species has so far been inferred only from ambiguous morphology-based evidence. Here we contribute a phylogenetic analysis of an expanded SSU and ITS2 rDNA sequence dataset representing Chlorella- and Stichococcus-like species from terrestrial habitats of polar, temperate and tropical regions. We aim to uncover biogeographical patterns at low taxonomic levels. We found that psychrotolerant strains of Chlorella and Stichococcus are closely related with strains originating from the temperate zone. Species closely related to Chlorella vulgaris and Muriella terrestris, and recovered from extreme terrestrial environments of polar regions and hot deserts, are particularly widespread. Stichococcus strains from the temperate zone, with their closest relatives in the tropics, differ from strains with the closest relatives being from the polar regions. Our data suggest that terrestrial Chlorella and Stichococcus might be capable of intercontinental dispersal; however, their actual distributions exhibit biogeographical patterns. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'SEM, EDS, TEM, FTIR and UV-vis analysis were used to investigate the biosorption, bioaccumulation and bioreduction of silver by the freshwater green alga Parachlorella kessleri. The dead algal biomass showed high potential for silver removal; 75% of silver was removed within 2min. Surface sorption was the main mechanism; bioreduction contributed to the biosorption only to a small extent. In the presence of living P. kessleri cells a 68% decrease of silver concentration was observed within 24h, but subsequently the majority of silver was released back into the solution within the next 14days. According to UV-vis spectrometry, silver nanoparticles were formed in that time. The nanoparticles produced by the alga exhibited a lower toxicity against algal cells than silver ions at the same silver concentrations. The study demonstrated that living algal cells used a combination of two main mechanisms (sorption and reduction) for silver detoxification in their environment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Within EU FP7 project NANOVALID, the (eco)toxicity of 7 well-characterized engineered nanomaterials (NMs) was evaluated by 15 bioassays in 4 laboratories. The highest tested nominal concentration of NMs was 100\xe2\x80\x89mg/l. The panel of the bioassays yielded the following toxicity order: Ag\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89ZnO\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89CuO\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89TiO2\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89MWCNTs\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89SiO2\xe2\x80\x89>\xe2\x80\x89Au. Ag, ZnO and CuO proved very toxic in the majority of assays, assumingly due to dissolution. The latter was supported by the parallel analysis of the toxicity of respective soluble metal salts. The most sensitive tests/species were Daphnia magna (towards Ag NMs, 24-h EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.003\xe2\x80\x89mg Ag/l), algae Raphidocelis subcapitata (ZnO and CuO, 72-h EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14\xe2\x80\x89mg Zn/l and 0.7\xe2\x80\x89mg Cu/l, respectively) and murine fibroblasts BALB/3T3 (CuO, 48-h EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.7\xe2\x80\x89mg Cu/l). MWCNTs showed toxicity only towards rat alveolar macrophages (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8915.3\xe2\x80\x89mg/l) assumingly due to high aspect ratio and TiO2 towards R. subcapitata (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x896.8\xe2\x80\x89mg Ti/l) due to agglomeration of TiO2 and entrapment of algal cells. Finally, we constructed a decision tree to select the bioassays for hazard ranking of NMs. For NM testing, we recommend a multitrophic suite of 4 in vitro (eco)toxicity assays: 48-h D. magna immobilization (OECD202), 72-h R. subcapitata growth inhibition (OECD201), 30-min Vibrio fischeri bioluminescence inhibition (ISO2010) and 48-h murine fibroblast BALB/3T3 neutral red uptake in vitro (OECD129) representing crustaceans, algae, bacteria and mammalian cells, respectively. Notably, our results showed that these assays, standardized for toxicity evaluation of "regular" chemicals, proved efficient also for shortlisting of hazardous NMs. Additional assays are recommended for immunotoxicity evaluation of high aspect ratio NMs (such as MWCNTs). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In order to increase biomass yield and reduce culture cost of Haematococcus pluvialis with flue gas from coal-fired power plants, a screened mutant by nuclear irradiation was gradually domesticated with 15% CO2 to promote biomass dry weight and astaxanthin yield. The biomass yield of mutant after 10 generations of 15% CO2 domestication increased to 1.3 times as that with air. With the optimization of nitrogen and phosphorus concentration, the biomass dry weight was further increased by 62%. The astaxanthin yield induced with 15% CO2 and high light of 135\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol\xc2\xa0photons\xc2\xa0m(-2)\xc2\xa0s(-1) increased to 87.4mg/L, which was 6 times higher than that induced with high light in air. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We found that microalgae exposed to a mixture of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) did not show growth inhibition. Thus, we assumed that they could metabolize these compounds. In this study, the dihydrodiol-type PAH metabolites of benzo(a)pyrene (BaP), benzo(a)anthracene (BaA), benzo(b)fluoranthene (BbF) and benzo(k)fluoranthene (BkF) produced by the freshwater microalgae Selenastrum capricornutum were monitored and quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection (HPLC-FD) techniques. Exposure bioassays with S.\xc2\xa0capricornutum were performed using a 266\xc2\xa0ng\xc2\xa0mL(-1) mixture of PAHs at different exposure times (0.75, 1, 3, 8, 16, 24 and 48\xc2\xa0h) under controlled temperature (25\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C); the dihydrodiol metabolites formed in the liquid medium and the biomass were quantified. Metabolite identities were confirmed using HPLC-mass spectrometry; most of the metabolites formed were derived from BaA degradation. At 48\xc2\xa0h after exposure 5,6-dBaA and 8,9-dBaA/10,11-dBaA were present in the liquid medium at 20% and 67% of the initial mass of BaA, respectively. Three metabolites of BaP were monitored in the liquid medium and biomass and, at 24\xc2\xa0h, 4,5-dBaP accounted for 19%; , 7,8-dBaP, 5%; and 9,10-dBaP, 5% relative to the initial BaP mass. Microalgae exposed to BbF showed the presence of 1,2-dBbF and 9,10-dBbF (at 0.3% and 0.1% of the initial BbF mass, respectively) and those exposed to BkF produced 8,9-dBkF (6.5% of the initial BkF mass) in the liquid medium. Seven unknown compounds were formed after exposure; two compounds were identified as the metabolites of BaA and BaP. The results could facilitate the elucidation of the controversial biodegradation mechanism in microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Most previous studies on Haematococcus pluvialis have been focused on growth and astaxanthin accumulation. However, the relationships between photorespiration and astaxanthin accumulation have not been clarified. The purpose of this study was to examine the role of photorespiration during the process of astaxanthin accumulation in H.\xc2\xa0pluvialis. During astaxanthin accumulation, the astaxanthin content was reduced significantly when photorespiration was inhibited by its specific inhibitor, carboxymethoxylamine. The inhibition of photorespiration did not change the dry weight, chlorophyll content and OJIP transients during the incubation; however, the inhibition of photorespiration significantly decreased the photochemistry of photosystem II and total photosynthetic O2 evolution capacity. Moreover, the restriction in photorespiration was synchronized with a decrease of astaxanthin accumulation. These results suggest that the photorespiratory pathway in H.\xc2\xa0pluvialis can accelerate astaxanthin accumulation. We speculate that photorespiration can enhance astaxanthin accumulation in the following ways: (i) photorespiration directly affects the glycerate-3-phosphate (PGA) level, which is intrinsically related to the accumulation of astaxanthin in H.\xc2\xa0pluvialis; (ii) the photorespiratory pathway indirectly affects the PGA level by effecting the dark reactions of photosynthesis, which then results in the enhancement of astaxanthin accumulation in H.\xc2\xa0pluvialis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The valorization of Rhizoclonium sp. algae through pyrolysis for obtaining bio-oils is studied in this work. The reaction is carried out at 400\xc2\xb0C, at high contact time. The bio-oil has a practical yield of 35% and is rich in phytol. Besides, it is simpler than the corresponding to lignocellulosic biomass due to the absence of phenolic compounds. This property leads to a bio-oil relatively stable to storage. In addition, heterogeneous catalysts (Al-Fe/MCM-41, SBA-15 and Cu/SBA-15), in contact with algae during pyrolysis, are analyzed. The general trend is that the catalysts decrease the concentration of fatty alcohols and other high molecular weight products, since their mild acidity sites promote degradation reactions. Thus, the amount of light products increases upon the use of the catalysts. Particularly, acetol concentration in the bio-oils obtained from the catalytic pyrolysis with SBA-15 and Cu/SBA-15 is notably high. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this study, the effect of flue gas CO2 on growth, lipid production, and fatty acid composition of a green microalga Acutodesmus obliquus KGE 30 was investigated. The highest growth rate (0.46\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0L(-1) and \xce\xbcmax\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.09\xc2\xa0day(-1)), total inorganic carbon removal (95.9\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)), and lipid productivity (20.1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1) day L(-1)) was obtained at 14.1\xc2\xa0% CO2 after 4\xc2\xa0days of cultivation. In a semicontinuous batch reactor, the highest biomass production (1.19\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0L(-1)) was achieved after 12\xc2\xa0days with continuous injection of flue gas CO2. Compared with synthetic CO2, fatty acid methyl ester analysis showed that the amount of unsaturated fatty acid increased by 19.2\xc2\xa0% with 14.1\xc2\xa0% flue gas CO2. The application of flue gas CO2 improved biomass production and lipid productivity in A. obliquus. The current investigation demonstrated that the use of flue gas CO2 could reduce the cost of microalgae biomass production for better biofuel generation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Coelastrella sp. QY01, a microalgae species isolated from a local pond, was identified and used for the treatment of anaerobically and aerobically treated swine wastewater (AnATSW). Microalgal growth characteristics, nutrient removal and lipid accumulation of QY01 cultivated in the initial concentration of AnATSW ranged from 63 to 319mg NH3-N/L were examined. The specific growth rate of QY01 cultivated in cultures ranged from 0.269 to 0.325day(-1) with a biomass productivity from 42.77 to 57.46mgL(-1)day(-1). Removal rates for NH3-N, TP and inorganic carbon in AnATSW at the various nutrient concentrations ranged from 90% to 100%, from 90% to 100% and from 74% to 78%, respectively. The lipid content of QY01 ranged from 22.4% to 24.8%. The lipid productivity was positive correlation with the biomass productivity. 40% AnATSW was optimal for QY01 cultivation, in which nutrient removal and productivity of biomass and lipid were maximized. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"In this study, an alternative approach was proposed where excess seawater would be added only during inoculation (DD) rather than daily addition (FD). Growth and metabolite contents of Tetraselmis sp. weren't affected for daily increase of 2% NaCl salinity. Tetraselmis sp. was then cultured in DD and FD pond. In DD pond, initial culture depth was 23.5cm and its depth reduced as no water was added; for FD pond, everyday sterilized seawater was added to maintain 20cm depth. DD pond had higher biomass productivity compared to FD pond, until DD pond was deeper than FD pond; metabolite content and FAME profile of Tetraselmis sp. were also similar in both cultures. Therefore, considering the simplicity in operation, halo tolerant microalgae can be grown in DD pond method. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The Fishing House located on the grounds of the Marquis of Pombal Palace, Oeiras, Portugal, was built in the 18th century. During this epoch, Portuguese gardens, such as the one surrounding the Fishing House, were commonly ornamented with glazed wall tile claddings. Currently, some of these outdoor tile panels are covered with dark colored biofilms, contributing to undesirable aesthetic changes and eventually inducing chemical and physical damage to the tile surfaces. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that the investigated biofilms are mainly composed of green algae, cyanobacteria and dematiaceous fungi. With the aim of mitigating biodeterioration, four different biocides (TiO2nanoparticles, Biotin\xc2\xaeT, Preventol\xc2\xaeRI 80 and Albilex Biostat\xc2\xae) were applied in situ to the glazed wall tiles. Their efficacy was monitored by visual examination, epifluorescence microscopy and DNA-based analysis. Significant changes in the microbial community composition were observed 4 months after treatment with Preventol\xc2\xaeRI 80 and Biotin\xc2\xaeT. Although the original community was inactivated after these treatments, an early stage of re-colonization was detected 6 months after the biocide application. TiO2nanoparticles showed promising results due to their self-cleaning effect, causing the detachment of the biofilm from the tile surface, which remained clean 6 and even 24 months after biocide application. \xc2\xa9 2013 Society for Applied Microbiology and John Wiley&Sons Ltd. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The green microalga Dunaliella salina survives in a wide range of salinities via mechanisms involving glycerol synthesis and degradation and is exploited for large amounts of nutraceutical carotenoids produced under stressed conditions. In this study, D.\xc2\xa0salina CCAP 19/30 was cultured in varying photoperiods and light intensities to study the relationship of light with different growth measurement parameters, with cellular contents of glycerol, starch and carotenoids, and with photosynthesis and respiration. Results show CCAP 19/30 regulated cell volume when growing under light/dark cycles: cell volume increased in the light and decreased in the dark, and these changes corresponded to changes in cellular glycerol content. The decrease in cell volume in the dark was independent of cell division and biological clock and was regulated by the photoperiod of the light/dark cycle. When the light intensity was increased to above 1000\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol photons\xc2\xa0m(-2)\xc2\xa0s(-1), cells displayed evidence of photodamage. However, these cells also maintained the maximum level of photosynthesis efficiency and respiration possible, and the growth rate increased as light intensity increased. Significantly, the intracellular glycerol content also increased,>2-fold compared to the content in light intensity of 500\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcmol photons\xc2\xa0m(-2)\xc2\xa0s(-1), but there was no commensurate increase in the pool size of carotenoids. These data suggest that in CCAP 19/30 glycerol stabilized the photosynthetic apparatus for maximum performance in high light intensities, a role normally attributed to carotenoids. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The probabilistic ecological risk assessment using terrestrial toxicity data has been mainly based on microfauna or mesofauna. Soil algae, which are food source for microfauna and mesofauna, may be alternatively used for assessing soil toxicity. However, there are no internationally recommended guidelines for soil algal bioassays, and the collection of algae from the test soils has some limitations. In this study, we suggested the paper-disc method as an easy-to-use alternative. This method has been widely used for testing the antibacterial toxicity of various chemicals in agar media by measuring the diameter of the inhibition zone around the disc. We adapted the paper-disc method for screening the toxicity of copper (Cu) and nickel (Ni) to the soil alga Chlorococcum infusionum using various evaluation endpoints, such as growth zone, chlorophyll fluorescence, and photosynthetic activity. Chlorophyll fluorescence and photosynthetic activity decreased with the increasing concentrations of Cu(+2) or Ni(+2) contaminated soils. Algal growth zone was analyzed visually and showed similar results to those of chlorophyll fluorescence. The direct ethanol extraction method and indirect culture medium extraction method were similarly effective; however, the former was easier to perform, while the latter might facilitate the analysis of additional endpoints in future studies. Overall, the results suggested that the paper-disc method was not only a user-friendly assay for screening soil toxicity, but also effective due to its association with indirect soil quality indicators. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microwave-assisted hydrothermal extraction was applied for production of sulfated polysaccharides from Ulva spp. and Monostroma latissimum. The maximum ulvan yields attained 40.4\xc2\xb13.2% (Ulva meridionalis) and 36.5\xc2\xb13.1% (Ulva ohnoi) within 4min of come-up time and 10min of extraction time at 160\xc2\xb0C, respectively. The rhamnan sulfate yield from M. latissimum further attained 53.1\xc2\xb17.2% at 140\xc2\xb0C. The sulfated polysaccharides were easily recovered from the extract by simple ethanol precipitation. In addition, molecular weights and viscosity of the extracted polysaccharides could be controlled by varying the extraction temperature. Dielectric measurement revealed that ionic conduction was the important parameter that affect the microwave susceptibility of algae-water mixture. The sulfated polysaccharides extracts are expected as potential feedstock for medical and food applications. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'PREMISE OF THE STUDY: Discovery and morphological characterization of a novel epiphytic aquatic green alga increases our understanding of Chaetopeltidales, a poorly known order in Chlorophyceae. Chloroplast genomic data from this taxon reveals an unusual architecture previously unknown in green algae.METHODS: Using light and electron microscopy, we characterized the morphology and ultrastructure of a novel taxon of green algae. Bayesian phylogenetic analyses of nuclear and plastid genes were used to test the hypothesized membership of this taxon in order Chaetopeltidales. With next-generation sequence data, we assembled the plastid genome of this novel taxon and compared its gene content and architecture to that of related species to further investigate plastid genome traits.KEY RESULTS: The morphology and ultrastructure of this alga are consistent with placement in Chaetopeltidales (Chlorophyceae), but a distinct trait combination supports recognition of this alga as a new genus and species-Koshicola spirodelophila gen. et sp. nov. Its placement in the phylogeny as a descendant of a deep division in the Chaetopeltidales is supported by analysis of molecular data sets. The chloroplast genome is among the largest reported in green algae and the genes are distributed on three large (rather than a single) chromosome, in contrast to other studied green algae.CONCLUSIONS: The discovery of Koshicola spirodelophila gen. et sp. nov. highlights the importance of investigating even commonplace habitats to explore new microalgal diversity. This work expands our understanding of the morphological and chloroplast genomic features of green algae, and in particular those of the poorly studied Chaetopeltidales. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Codon adaptation is codon usage bias that results from selective pressure to increase the translation efficiency of a gene. Codon adaptation has been studied across a wide range of genomes and some early analyses of plastids have shown evidence for codon adaptation in a limited set of highly expressed plastid genes. Here we study codon usage bias across all fully sequenced plastid genomes which includes representatives of the Rhodophyta, Alveolata, Cryptophyta, Euglenozoa, Glaucocystophyceae, Rhizaria, Stramenopiles and numerous lineages within the Viridiplantae, including Chlorophyta and Embryophyta. We show evidence that codon adaptation occurs in all genomes except for two, Theileria parva and Heicosporidium sp., both of which have highly reduced gene contents and no photosynthesis genes. We also show evidence that selection for codon adaptation increases the representation of the same set of codons, which we refer to as the adaptive codons, across this wide range of taxa, which is probably due to common features descended from the initial endosymbiont. We use various measures to estimate the relative strength of selection in the different lineages and show that it appears to be fairly strong in certain Stramenopiles and Chlorophyta lineages but relatively weak in many members of the Rhodophyta, Euglenozoa and Embryophyta. Given these results we propose that codon adaptation in plastids is widespread and displays the same general features as adaptation in eubacterial genomes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microbial communities of natural subaerial biofilms developed on granitic historic buildings of a World Heritage Site (Santiago de Compostela, NW Spain) were characterized and cultured in liquid BG11 medium. Environmental barcoding through next-generation sequencing (Pacific Biosciences) revealed that the biofilms were mainly composed of species of Chlorophyta (green algae) and Ascomycota (fungi) commonly associated with rock substrata. Richness and diversity were higher for the fungal than for the algal assemblages and fungi showed higher heterogeneity among samples. Cultures derived from natural biofilms showed the establishment of stable microbial communities mainly composed of Chlorophyta and Cyanobacteria. Although most taxa found in these cultures were not common in the original biofilms, they are likely common pioneer colonizers of building stone surfaces, including granite. Stable phototrophic multi-species cultures of known microbial diversity were thus obtained and their reliability to emulate natural colonization on granite should be confirmed in further experiments. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Dissolved oxygen (DO) concentrations showed a striking pattern in a multi-year study of the River Enborne, a small river in SE England. In each of three years (2010-2012), maximum DO concentrations were attained in mid-April, preceded by a period of steadily increasing diurnal amplitudes, followed by a steady reduction in both amplitude and concentration. Flow events during the reduction period reduce DO to low concentrations until the following spring. Evidence is presented that this pattern is mainly due to benthic algal growth which is eventually suppressed by the growth of the riparian tree canopy. Nitrate and silicate concentrations are too high to inhibit the growth of either benthic algae or phytoplankton, but phosphate concentrations might have started to reduce growth if the tree canopy development had been delayed. This interpretation is supported by evidence from weekly flow cytometry measurements and analysis of the diurnal, seasonal and annual patterns of nutrient concentrations. As the tree canopy develops, the river switches from an autotrophic to a heterotrophic state. The results support the use of riparian shading to help control algal growth, and highlight the risks of reducing riparian shade. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Capsosiphon fulvescens is a filamentous green algae in the class Ulvophyceae. It has been consumed as food with unique flavor and soft texture to treat stomach disorders and hangovers, and its economic value justifies studying its nutritional and potential therapeutic effects. In contrast to these applications, only a few taxonomic studies have been conducted on C. fulvescens. In particular, classification and phylogenetic relationships of the C. fulvescens below the order level are controversial. To determine its phylogenetic position in the class, we used rbcL and 18S rDNA sequences as molecular markers to construct phylogenetic trees. The amplified rbcL and 18S rDNA sequences from 4 C. fulvescens isolates (Jindo, Jangheung, Wando, and Koheung, Korea) were used for phylogenetic analysis by employing three different phylogenetic methods: neighbor joining (NJ), maximum parsimony (MP), and maximum likelihood (ML). The rbcL phylogenetic tree showed that all taxa in the order Ulvales were clustered as a monophyletic group and resolved the phylogenetic position of C. fulvescens in the order Ulotrichales. The significance of our study is that the 18S rDNA phylogenetic tree shows the detailed taxonomic position of C. fulvescens. In our result, C. fulvescens is inferred as a member of Ulotrichaceae, along with Urospora and Acrosiphonia. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'AIMS: High rate algal ponds (HRAPs) have been suggested as replacements for waste stabilization ponds (WSPs) in Community Wastewater Management Systems (CWMS) used in rural South Australian (SA) towns. Treated effluent from CWMS is reused for irrigation. To manage the risk of human exposure to pathogens, the disinfection performance of HRAPs was validated using the common indicators Escherichia coli and F-RNA bacteriophage; aerobic spore-forming bacteria (ASFB) were used as indicators for protozoa.METHODS AND RESULTS: Using standard culture methods, the removal of the indicator organisms F-RNA bacteriophage, E.\xc2\xa0coli and ASFB by a HRAP at Kingston-on-Murray, SA, was measured. The mean log10 reduction values achieved for the F-RNA bacteriophage was 1\xc2\xb759\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00\xc2\xb782 log10\xc2\xa0PFU\xc2\xa0100\xc2\xa0ml(-1) and for E.\xc2\xa0coli it was 2\xc2\xb713\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00\xc2\xb755 log10 \xc2\xa0E.\xc2\xa0coli MPN\xc2\xa0100\xc2\xa0ml(-1) . ASFB numbers in the treated pond effluent often exceeded those of the influent.CONCLUSIONS: The results show that HRAPs are able to remove viral and bacterial indicators to levels acceptable for subsurface irrigation of nonfood crops. Additionally, it was concluded that alternate environmental sources and the potential for regrowth made ASFB unsuitable indicators for pathogenic protozoa in natural pond systems.SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: This study shows HRAPs would be suitable replacements for WSPs in CWMS schemes in regard to pathogen disinfection. Such demonstration of the treatment efficacy of HRAPs, together with their smaller land area requirements relative to WSPs, should facilitate their wider adoption in rural and remote communities. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Mosquitoes act as vectors of devastating pathogens and parasites, representing a key threat for millions of humans and animals worldwide. The control of mosquito-borne diseases is facing a number of crucial challenges, including the emergence of artemisinin and chloroquine resistance in Plasmodium parasites, as well as the presence of mosquito vectors resistant to synthetic and microbial pesticides. Therefore, eco-friendly tools are urgently required. Here, a synergic approach relying to nanotechnologies and biological control strategies is proposed. The marine environment is an outstanding reservoir of bioactive natural products, which have many applications against pests, parasites, and pathogens. We proposed a novel method of seaweed-mediated synthesis of silver nanoparticles (AgNP) using the spongeweed Codium tomentosum, acting as a reducing and capping agent. AgNP were characterized by UV-Vis spectroscopy, Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX), and X-ray diffraction (XRD). In mosquitocidal assays, the 50\xc2\xa0% lethal concentration (LC50) of C. tomentosum extract against Anopheles stephensi ranged from 255.1 (larva I) to 487.1\xc2\xa0ppm (pupa). LC50 of C. tomentosum-synthesized AgNP ranged from 18.1 (larva I) to 40.7\xc2\xa0ppm (pupa). In laboratory, the predation efficiency of Mesocyclops aspericornis copepods against A. stephensi larvae was 81, 65, 17, and 9\xc2\xa0% (I, II, III, and IV instar, respectively). In AgNP contaminated environment, predation was not affected; 83, 66, 19, and 11\xc2\xa0% (I, II, III, and IV). The anti-plasmodial activity of C. tomentosum extract and spongeweed-synthesized AgNP was evaluated against CQ-resistant (CQ-r) and CQ-sensitive (CQ-s) strains of Plasmodium falciparum. Fifty percent inhibitory concentration (IC50) of C. tomentosum were 51.34\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml (CQ-s) and 65.17\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml (CQ-r); C. tomentosum-synthesized AgNP achieved IC50 of 72.45\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml (CQ-s) and 76.08\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml (CQ-r). Furthermore, low doses of the AgNP inhibited the growth of Bacillus subtilis, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Salmonella typhi, using the agar disk diffusion and minimum inhibitory concentration protocol. Overall, C. tomentosum metabolites and spongeweed-synthesized AgNP may be potential candidates to develop novel and effective tools in the fight against Plasmodium parasites and their mosquito vectors. The employ of ultra-low doses of nanomosquitocides in synergy with cyclopoid crustaceans seems a promising green route for effective mosquito control programs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Streptophyte green algae, ancestors of Embryophytes, occur frequently in terrestrial habitats being exposed to high light intensities, water scarcity and potentially toxic metal cations under acidic conditions. The filamentous Zygogonium ericetorum synthesizes a purple vacuolar ferrous pigment, which is lost after aplanospore formation. However, it is unknown whether this cellular reorganization also removes excessive iron from the protoplast and how Z. ericetorum copes with high concentrations of aluminium. Here we show that aplanospore formation shifts iron into the extracellular space of the algal filament. Upon germination of aplanospores, aluminium is bound in the parental cell wall. Both processes reduce iron and aluminium in unpigmented filaments. Comparison of the photosynthetic oxygen production in response to light and temperature gradients in two different Z. ericetorum strains from an Austrian alpine and a Scottish highland habitat revealed lower values in the latter strain. In contrast, the Scottish strain showed a higher optimum quantum yield of PSII during desiccation stress followed by rehydration. Furthermore, pigmented filaments of both strains exhibited a higher light and temperature dependent oxygen production when compared to the unpigmented phenotype. Our results demonstrate a high metal tolerance of Z. ericetorum, which is crucial for surviving in acidic terrestrial habitats. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Paramecium bursaria (Ehrenberg 1831), a freshwater ciliate, typically harbors hundreds of green algal symbionts inside the cell. The aim of present study was the molecular identification of newly analyzed P. bursaria symbionts. The second aspect of the present survey was testing a hypothesis whether endosymbionts prefer the specified syngen of the host, and the specified geographical distribution. Ten strains of endosymbionts isolated from strains of P. bursaria originating from different geographical locations were studied. We analyzed for the first time, both the fragment of plastid genome containing 3'rpl36-5' infA genes and a fragment of a nuclear gene encoding large subunit ribosomal RNA (LSU rDNA). The analysis of the LSU rDNA sequences showed the existence of 3 haplotypes and the haplotype diversity of 0.733, and 8 haplotypes for the 3'rpl36-5' infA gene fragment and haplotype diversity of 0.956. The endosymbionts isolated from P. bursaria strains were identified as Chlorella vulgaris, Ch. variabilis and Micractinium conductrix. There was no correlation between the syngen of P. bursaria and the species of endosymbiont. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'We propose a three-step strategy that uses structural and physicochemical properties of chemicals to predict their 72 h algal growth inhibition toxicities against Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata. In Step 1, using a log D-based criterion and structural alerts, we produced an interspecies QSAR between algal and acute daphnid toxicities for initial screening of chemicals. In Step 2, we categorized chemicals according to the Verhaar scheme for aquatic toxicity, and we developed QSARs for toxicities of Class 1 (non-polar narcotic) and Class 2 (polar narcotic) chemicals by means of simple regression with a hydrophobicity descriptor and multiple regression with a hydrophobicity descriptor and a quantum chemical descriptor. Using the algal toxicities of the Class 1 chemicals, we proposed a baseline QSAR for calculating their excess toxicities. In Step 3, we used structural profiles to predict toxicity either quantitatively or qualitatively and to assign chemicals to the following categories: Pesticide, Reactive, Toxic, Toxic low and Uncategorized. Although this three-step strategy cannot be used to estimate the algal toxicities of all chemicals, it is useful for chemicals within its domain. The strategy is also applicable as a component of Integrated Approaches to Testing and Assessment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The surface waters of oligotrophic oceans have chronically low phosphate (Pi) concentrations, which renders dissolved organic phosphorus (DOP) an important nutrient source. In the subtropical North Atlantic, cyanobacteria are often numerically dominant, but picoeukaryotes can dominate autotrophic biomass and productivity making them important contributors to the ocean carbon cycle. Despite their importance, little is known regarding the metabolic response of picoeukaryotes to changes in phosphorus (P) source and availability. To understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate P utilization in oligotrophic environments, we evaluated transcriptomes of the picoeukaryote Micromonas pusilla grown under Pi-replete and -deficient conditions, with an additional investigation of growth on DOP in replete conditions. Genes that function in sulfolipid substitution and Pi uptake increased in expression with Pi-deficiency, suggesting cells were reallocating cellular P and increasing P acquisition capabilities. Pi-deficient M. pusilla cells also increased alkaline phosphatase activity and reduced their cellular P content. Cells grown with DOP were able to maintain relatively high growth rates, however the transcriptomic response was more similar to the Pi-deficient response than that seen in cells grown under Pi-replete conditions. The results demonstrate that not all P sources are the same for growth; while M. pusilla, a model picoeukaryote, may grow well on DOP, the metabolic demand is greater than growth on Pi. These findings provide insight into the cellular strategies which may be used to support growth in a stratified future ocean predicted to favor picoeukaryotes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Head space solid-phase microextraction-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry has been applied to analyze the volatile components of six marine microalgae (Thalassiosira weissflogii, Nitzschia closterium, Chaetoceros calcitrans, Platymonas helgolandica, Nannochloropsis spp. and Dicrateria inornata) from Bacillariophyta, Chlorophyta and Chrysophyta, respectively, in different growth phases.RESULTS: All volatile compounds were identified by database searching in the NIST08 Mass Spectral Library and analyzed by principal component analysis with SIMCA-P software (Umetrics, Umea, Sweden). The results clearly revealed that the volatile components of the six microalgae were significantly different in the exponential, stationary and declining phases. Aldehydes, alkanes, some esters and dimethyl sulfide significantly changed in different growth phases.CONCLUSION: This is the first report on the comprehensive characteristics of volatile components in different microalgae and in different growth phases. The results may provide reference data for studies on the flavor of cultivated aquatic organism, odor formation in nature water, choice of feeding period and microalgae species selection for the artificial rearing of marine organisms. \xc2\xa9 2016 Society of Chemical Industry. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study aimed to evaluate nutrients concentration and spatial-temporal changes in phytoplankton biovolume during an experimental fish culture in net cages in a lateral arm of Salto Caxias reservoir, Brazil. Two sampling stations were placed in the affected lateral arm and other two in a cageless lateral arm. Neither abiotic variables nor phytoplankton biovolume presented significant differences between the treatments. Only temporal changes were confirmed by the analysis performed. Both lateral arms were classified as oligotrophic, reflecting low influence of the net cages. Phytoplankton growth seems to be limited by nitrogen. Biovolume values were, in general, low and five major functional groups were recognized (E, F, G, K and P). In summer higher biovolume values were observed and representatives of Chlorophyceae and Cyanobacteria belonging to the functional groups F and K, respectively, were the most important. In winter phytoplankton was mainly composed by Bacillariophyceae taxa from P group. G group was also restricted to winter and E group occurred in winter and summer. The variations recorded in phytoplankton structure appear to have been mainly influenced by seasonal changes in temperature, precipitation and nutrients availability. The effects of net cages on the abiotic variables and phytoplankton biovolume appear to have been small, probably due to the small number of net cages employed and the system dilution capacity. However, a permanent monitoring of phytoplankton is recommended, since this environment has a carrying capacity, from which the trophic state may increase. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cadmium-based quantum dots (QDs) are increasingly applied in existent and emerging technologies, especially in biological applications due to their exceptional photophysical and functionalization properties. However, they are very toxic compounds due to the high reactive and toxic cadmium core. The present study aimed to determine the toxicity of three different QDs (CdS 380, CdS 480 and CdSeS/ZnS) before and after the exposure of suspensions to sunlight, in order to assess the effect of environmentally relevant irradiation levels in their toxicity, which will act after their release to the environment. Therefore, a battery of ecotoxicological tests was performed with organisms that cover different functional and trophic levels, such as Vibrio fischeri, Raphidocelis subcapitata, Chlorella vulgaris and Daphnia magna. The results showed that core-shell type QDs showed lower toxic effects to V. fischeri in comparison to core type QDs before sunlight exposure. However, after sunlight exposure, there was a decrease of CdS 380 and CdS 480 QD toxicity to bacterium. Also, after sunlight exposure, an effective decrease of CdSeS/ZnS and CdS 480 toxicity for D. magna and R. subcapitata, and an evident increase in CdS 380 QD toxicity, at least for D. magna, were observed. The results of this study suggest that sunlight exposure has an effect in the aggregation and precipitation reactions of larger QDs, causing the degradation of functional groups and formation of larger bulks which may be less prone to photo-oxidation due to their diminished surface area. The same aggregation behaviour after sunlight exposure was observed for bare QDs. These results further emphasize that the shell of QDs seems to make them less harmful to aquatic biota, both under standard environmental conditions and after the exposure to a relevant abiotic factor like sunlight. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Water pollution permit systems are challenging to design and implement. Operational systems that has maintained functionality remains few and far between, particularly in developing countries. We present current progress towards developing such a system for nutrient enrichment based water pollution, mainly from commercial agriculture. We applied a production function approach to first estimate the monetary value of the impact of the pollution, which is then used as reference point for establishing a reserve price for pollution permits. The subsequent market making process is explained according to five steps including permit design, terms, conditions and transactional protocol, the monitoring system, piloting and implementation. The monetary value of the impact of pollution was estimated at R1887 per hectare per year, which not only provide a "management budget" for filamentous green algae mitigation strategies in the study area, but also enabled the calculation of a reserve price for filamentous green algae pollution permits, which was estimated between R2.25 and R111 per gram filamentous algae and R8.99 per gram at the preferred state. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Marine fungi represent an important but still largely unexplored source of novel and potentially bioactive secondary metabolites. The antimicrobial activity of nine sterile mycelia isolated from the green alga Flabellia petiolata collected from the Mediterranean Sea was tested on four antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains using extracellular and intracellular extracts obtained from each fungal strain. The isolated fungi were identified at the molecular level and assigned to one of the Dothideomycetes, Sordariomycetes or Eurotiomycetes classes. Following assessment of inhibition of bacterial growth (IC50), all crude extracts were subjected to preliminary (1)H NMR and TLC analysis. According to preliminary pharmacologic and spectroscopic/chromatographic results, extracts of fungal strains MUT 4865, classified as Beauveria bassiana, and MUT 4861, classified as Microascacea sp.2, were selected for LC-HRMS analysis. Chemical profiling of antibacterial extracts from MUT 4861 and MUT 4865 by LC HRMS allowed identification of the main components of the crude extracts. Several sphingosine bases were identified, including a compound previously unreported from natural sources, which gave a rationale to the broad spectrum of antibacterial activity exhibited. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The chemical composition of three edible seaweeds (Codium capitatum, Hypnea spicifera and Sargassum elegans) and two inedible seaweeds (Halimeda cuneata and Spyridia hypnoides) from the Indian Ocean along the KwaZulu-Natal East Coast, South Africa were investigated as a function of seasonal variation. The proximate compositions of the edible seaweeds were determined. In edible seaweeds, the moisture level ranged from 85.4 to 89.5%, protein from 6.1 to 11.8%, lipids from 7.5 to 13.1% and carbohydrates from 37.8 to 71.9%. Elemental concentrations in the five studied seaweeds varied significantly with season (P<0.05) with mean elemental concentrations (in \xc2\xb5g g(-1), dry weight) being: Ca (29 260), Mg (6 279), Fe (1 086), Cu (145.9), Mn (48.32), As (24.29), Zn (15.65), Ni (9.83), Cr (5.78), Pb (4.84), Co (0.87) and Se (0.86). The concentrations of As were particularly high in S. elegans, ranging from 94.70 \xc2\xb1 6.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5g g(-1) in winter to 65.10 \xc2\xb1 2.3\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5g g(-1) in summer. Hierarchical cluster analysis showed similar distribution of elements in edible seaweeds which was dissimilar to that in inedible seaweeds. This study suggests that edible macro alga, C. capitatum and H. spicifera, could be potential sources of most essential nutrients and may contribute positively to the diet without posing the risk of adverse health effects due to low concentrations of toxic elements. However, due to high levels of As in S. elegans, its consumption should be moderated to reduce dietary exposure to this toxic element. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Because of the large number of possible aromatic hydrocarbon structures, predictive toxicity models are needed to support substance hazard and risk assessments. Calibration and evaluation of such models requires toxicity data with well-defined exposures. The present study has applied a passive dosing method to generate reliable chronic effects data for 8 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) on the green algae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and the crustacean Ceriodaphnia dubia. The observed toxicity of these substances on algal growth rate and neonate production were then compared with available literature toxicity data for these species, as well as target lipid model and chemical activity-based model predictions. The use of passive dosing provided well-controlled exposures that yielded more consistent data sets than attained by past literature studies. Results from the present study, which were designed to exclude the complicating influence of ultraviolet light, were found to be well described by both target lipid model and chemical activity effect models. The present study also found that the lack of chronic effects for high molecular weight PAHs was consistent with the limited chemical activity that could be achieved for these compounds in the aqueous test media. Findings from this analysis highlight that variability in past literature toxicity data for PAHs may be complicated by both poorly controlled exposures and photochemical processes that can modulate both exposure and toxicity. Environ Toxicol Chem 2016;35:2948-2957. \xc2\xa9 2016 SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Polyhydroxybutyrate (PHB) is completely biodegradable which is metabolised by microorganisms in the soil as their sole food source in few years. The level of PHB up to 10.6% of algal dry weight is of great potential of the eco-friendly nature. Botryococcus braunii is mainly used for the production of biodiesel and is also capable of producing biopolymer polyhydroxy butyrate (PHB). In this study, Botryococcus braunii is used which generally produce PHB to around 20% of the dry weight. Three different microalgae were isolated from the fresh water of Kolavoi lake of Tamil Nadu. They were identified by their morphological features under the light microscope. The primary screening of PHB intracellular granules was made by using Nile red dye under a fluorescent microscope. Among them, Botryococcus braunii showed high accumulation of PHB granules. For authentic confirmation, the chloroform extracted PHB was analysed by FTIR, XRD and DSC-TGA analyses to characterize PHB with commercial biodegradable thermoplastic. This is the first report in B. braunii for its PHB production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Thermal acid hydrolysis is often used to deal with lignocellulosic biomasses, but 5-hydroxy-methylfurfural (5-HMF) formed during hydrolysis deeply influences downstream fermentation. 2,5-Furan-dicarboxylic acid (FDCA), which is in the list of future important biomass platform molecules can be obtained using 5-HMF biotransformation. Based on the connection between 5-HMF removal in acid hydrolysate and FDCA production, the optimum thermal acid hydrolysis condition for macroalgae Chaetomorpha linum was established. Potential microbes capable of transforming 5-HMF into FDCA were isolated and characterized under various parameters and inoculated into algal hydrolysate to perform 5-HMF biotransformation. The optimum hydrolysis condition was to apply 0.5M HCl to treat 3% algal biomass under 121\xc2\xb0C for 15min. Isolated Burkholderia cepacia H-2 could transform 2000mg/L 5-HMF at the initial pH of 7 at 28\xc2\xb0C and 1276mg/L FDCA was received. Strain B. cepacia H-2 was suitable for treating the algal hydrolysate without dilution, receiving 989.5mg/L FDCA. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The effects of trophic modes, carbon sources, and salinity on the growth and lipid accumulation of a marine oilgae Desmodesmus sp. WC08 in different trophic cultures were assayed by single factor experiment based on the blue-green algae medium (BG-11). The results implied that biomass and lipid accumulation culture process were optimized depending on the tophic modes, sorts, and concentration of carbon sources and salinity in the cultivation. There was no significant difference in growth or lipid accumulation with Na2CO3amendment or NaHCO3amendment. However, Na2CO3amendment did enhance the biomass and lipid accumulation to some extent. The highest Desmodesmus sp. WC08 biomass and lipid accumulation was achieved in the growth medium with photoautotrophic cultivation, 0.08\xc2\xa0g L-1Na2CO3amendment and 15\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0L-1sea salt, respectively. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Low iron bioavailability is a common feature of ocean surface water and therefore micro-algae developed original strategies to optimize iron uptake and metabolism. The marine picoeukaryotic green alga Ostreococcus tauri is a very good model for studying physiological and genetic aspects of the adaptation of the green algal lineage to the marine environment: it has a very compact genome, is easy to culture in laboratory conditions, and can be genetically manipulated by efficient homologous recombination. In this study, we aimed at characterizing the mechanisms of iron assimilation in O. tauri by combining genetics and physiological tools. Specifically, we wanted to identify and functionally characterize groups of genes displaying tightly orchestrated temporal expression patterns following the exposure of cells to iron deprivation and day/night cycles, and to highlight unique features of iron metabolism in O. tauri, as compared to the freshwater model alga Chalamydomonas reinhardtii.RESULTS: We used RNA sequencing to investigated the transcriptional responses to iron limitation in O. tauri and found that most of the genes involved in iron uptake and metabolism in O. tauri are regulated by day/night cycles, regardless of iron status. O. tauri lacks the classical components of a reductive iron uptake system, and has no obvious iron regulon. Iron uptake appears to be copper-independent, but is regulated by zinc. Conversely, iron deprivation resulted in the transcriptional activation of numerous genes encoding zinc-containing regulation factors. Iron uptake is likely mediated by a ZIP-family protein (Ot-Irt1) and by a new Fea1-related protein (Ot-Fea1) containing duplicated Fea1 domains. The adaptation of cells to iron limitation involved an iron-sparing response tightly coordinated with diurnal cycles to optimize cell functions and synchronize these functions with the day/night redistribution of iron orchestrated by ferritin, and a stress response based on the induction of thioredoxin-like proteins, of peroxiredoxin and of tesmin-like methallothionein rather than ascorbate. We briefly surveyed the metabolic remodeling resulting from iron deprivation.CONCLUSIONS: The mechanisms of iron uptake and utilization by O. tauri differ fundamentally from those described in C. reinhardtii. We propose this species as a new model for investigation of iron metabolism in marine microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Up-down chute and oscillating (UCO) baffles were used to generate vortex and oscillating flow field to improve growth rate of Haematococcus pluvialis in a raceway pond. Effects of gas flow rate, solution velocity, and solution depth on solution mass transfer coefficient and mixing time were evaluated using online pH and dissolved oxygen probes. Mass transfer coefficient increased by 1.3 times and mixing time decreased by 33% when UCO baffles were used in the H. pluvialis solution, resulting in an 18% increase in biomass yield with 2% CO2. The H. pluvialis biomass yield further increased to 1.5g/L, and astaxanthin composition accumulated to 29.7mg/L under relatively higher light intensity and salinity. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We previously screened the novel gene Ds-26-16 from a 4 M salt-stressed Dunaliella salina cDNA library and discovered that this gene conferred salt tolerance to broad-spectrum organisms, including E. coli (Escherichia coli), Haematococcus pluvialis and tobacco. To determine the mechanism of this gene conferring salt tolerance, we studied the proteome of E. coli overexpressing the full-length cDNA of Ds-26-16 using the iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification) approach. A total of 1,610 proteins were identified, which comprised 39.4% of the whole proteome. Of the 559 differential proteins, 259 were up-regulated and 300 were down-regulated. GO (gene ontology) and KEGG (Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes) enrichment analyses identified 202 major proteins, including those involved in amino acid and organic acid metabolism, energy metabolism, carbon metabolism, ROS (reactive oxygen species) scavenging, membrane proteins and ABC (ATP binding cassette) transporters, and peptidoglycan synthesis, as well as 5 up-regulated transcription factors. Our iTRAQ data suggest that Ds-26-16 up-regulates the transcription factors in E. coli to enhance salt resistance through osmotic balance, energy metabolism, and oxidative stress protection. Changes in the proteome were also observed in E. coli overexpressing the ORF (open reading frame) of Ds-26-16. Furthermore, pH, nitric oxide and glycerol content analyses indicated that Ds-26-16 overexpression increases nitric oxide content but has no effect on glycerol content, thus confirming that enhanced nitric oxide synthesis via lower intercellular pH was one of the mechanisms by which Ds-26-16 confers salt tolerance to E. coli. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cell disruption by bead milling of Neochloris oleoabundans grown under nitrogen repleted (NR) and nitrogen depleted (ND) conditions was evaluated based on the release of biochemicals and biomass to the supernatant. Additionally, energy consumption for cell disruption was calculated per kg of released component. Bead milling of NR cells resulted on average in 34% (w/w) release of biochemicals into the supernatant, with a similar composition as the untreated microalgal biomass. With ND cells, the release was higher and more selective, i.e. 57%, 59%, 68% and 56% (w/w) of respectively biomass, proteins, carbohydrates and lipids whereof 92%, 57% and 46% (w/w) respectively of phospho-, glyco- and neutral lipids. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'When exposed to stress such as high seawater temperature, corals and other cnidarians can bleach due to loss of symbiotic algae from the host tissue and/or loss of pigments from the algae. Although the environmental conditions that trigger bleaching are reasonably well known, its cellular and molecular mechanisms are not well understood. Previous studies have reported the occurrence of at least four different cellular mechanisms for the loss of symbiotic algae from the host tissue: in situ degradation of algae, exocytic release of algae from the host, detachment of host cells containing algae, and death of host cells containing algae. The relative contributions of these several mechanisms to bleaching remain unclear, and it is also not known whether these relative contributions change in animals subjected to different types and/or durations of stresses. In this study, we used a clonal population of the small sea anemone Aiptasia, exposed individuals to various precisely controlled stress conditions, and quantitatively assessed the several possible bleaching mechanisms in parallel. Under all stress conditions tested, except for acute cold shock at 4\xc2\xb0C, expulsion of intact algae from the host cells appeared to be by far the predominant mechanism of bleaching. During acute cold shock, in situ degradation of algae and host-cell detachment also became quantitatively significant, and the algae released under these conditions appeared to be severely damaged. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Genetic studies are important to understand the complex biological system of various organisms. Some eukaryotic green organisms have tough cell wall which precludes the efficient extraction of the genetic materials. Here, we developed the method for simple and rapid isolation of high quality DNA from a green alga Tetraspora sp. CU2551. The cell homogenization procedures were combined with physical force plus heat treatment to disrupt the cell envelope of Tetraspora sp. CU2551. Without protease treatment, vortexing with glass bead for 30-105\xc2\xa0s at 70\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C led to the isolation of a high purity DNA which was suitable for downstream process. The improved method was successfully developed and could be applied for the rapid isolation of DNA from other unicellular and filamentous green microalgal strains. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Lanthanides (La, Gd, Nd, Ce) accumulated in the green alga Desmodesmus quadricauda but their intracellular localizations were distinctly different: lanthanum and gadolinium were localized in cytoplasm, while neodymium and cerium were in the chloroplast. The effect of lanthanum and neodymium, as representatives of these two groups, on growth, chlorophyll content and photosynthetic rate at different light intensities was studied. At the lowest light intensity used (50\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5mol photons m-2\xc2\xa0s-1), in the presence of lanthanides (Nd), growth was enhanced by as much as 36\xc2\xa0% over lanthanide free control, and the photosynthetic rate increased by up to 300\xc2\xa0%. At high light intensities (238, 460, and 750\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5mol photons m-2s-1), photosynthetic rate increased markedly, but there was no significant difference between rates in the presence or absence of lanthanides. However, growth, measured as a percentage of dry weight, if compared with lanthanide free control, increased at all light intensities (31, 39, and 20\xc2\xa0%, respectively). The total amount of chlorophyll after lanthanide treatment increased by up to 21\xc2\xa0% relative to the control culture, mainly due to an increase in the level of chlorophyll b. Addition of lanthanides caused a change in the chlorophyll a/b ratio from 4.583 in control cultivation, to 1.05. Possible mechanisms of lanthanide-induced photosynthetic change, alterations in photosynthetic structures, and increases in growth are discussed and compared with findings in higher plants. The hypothesis that the lanthanide effect could be due to formation of lanthanide-pheophytins was not confirmed as lanthanide pheophytins were not found in D. quadricauda. Furthermore, we have shown that the preferential incorporation of heavy isotopes of magnesium, namely25Mg and26Mg, into chlorophyll during photosynthesis that occurred in controls was diminished in the presence of lanthanides. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The transition to multicellularity has occurred numerous times in all domains of life, yet its initial steps are poorly understood. The volvocine green algae are a tractable system for understanding the genetic basis of multicellularity including the initial formation of cooperative cell groups. Here we report the genome sequence of the undifferentiated colonial alga, Gonium pectorale, where group formation evolved by co-option of the retinoblastoma cell cycle regulatory pathway. Significantly, expression of the Gonium retinoblastoma cell cycle regulator in unicellular Chlamydomonas causes it to become colonial. The presence of these changes in undifferentiated Gonium indicates extensive group-level adaptation during the initial step in the evolution of multicellularity. These results emphasize an early and formative step in the evolution of multicellularity, the evolution of cell cycle regulation, one that may shed light on the evolutionary history of other multicellular innovations and evolutionary transitions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Biomass and lutein productivities of two thermotolerant microalgae were assessed in tropical outdoor conditions in all four seasons. Generally, addition of bicarbonate at 0.2g/L every two days or 2% CO2 did not enhance the productivities compared to the controls, and the productivities in the spring were higher than in the fall. Durations of effective irradiance positively correlated to the productivity of Coelastrella sp. F50 well, but not for Desmodesmus sp. F2. The ineffective light intensity was below 5000 lux (about 106\xce\xbcmol/m(2)s). The productivities produced in the 17cm diameter bottles were 1.5- to 1.9-fold higher than that in the 27cm ones. Lutein content, about 0.5% in biomass on average, did not change significantly grown in different carbon sources or seasons. The annual productivities of the microalgal biomass and lutein in one hectare were estimated to be 33tons and 180kg, respectively, using the non-optimized photobioreactor cultivation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The allelopathic potential of nine green seaweed species was examined based on germination and seedling growth of lettuce (Lactuca sativa L.). Out of nine methanol extracts, Capsosiphon fulvescens and Monostroma nitidum extracts completely inhibited germination of L. sativa at 4 mg/filter paper after 24 hr of treatment. Water extracts of these seaweeds generally showed low anti-germination activities than methanol extracts. Of the nine water extracts, Enteromorpha linza extract completely inhibited L. sativa germination at 16 mg/filter paper after 24 hrs. To identify the primary active compounds, C. fulvescens. powder was successively fractionated according to polarity, and the main active agents against L. sativa were determined to be lipids (0.0% germination at 0.5 mg of lipids/paper disc). According to these results, extracts of C. fulvescens can be used to develop natural herbicidal agents and manage terrestrial weeds. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Many microorganisms in Antarctica survive in the cold environment there by producing ice-binding proteins (IBPs) to control the growth of ice around them. An IBP from the Antarctic freshwater microalga, Chloromonas sp., was identified and characterized. The length of the Chloromonas sp. IBP (ChloroIBP) gene was 3.2 kb with 12 exons, and the molecular weight of the protein deduced from the ChloroIBP cDNA was 34.0 kDa. Expression of the ChloroIBP gene was up- and down-regulated by freezing and warming conditions, respectively. Western blot analysis revealed that native ChloroIBP was secreted into the culture medium. This protein has fifteen cysteines and is extensively disulfide bonded as shown by in-gel mobility shifts between oxidizing and reducing conditions. The open-reading frame of ChloroIBP was cloned and over-expressed in Escherichia coli to investigate the IBP's biochemical characteristics. Recombinant ChloroIBP produced as a fusion protein with thioredoxin was purified by affinity chromatography and formed single ice crystals of a dendritic shape with a thermal hysteresis activity of 0.4\xc2\xb10.02\xc2\xb0C at a concentration of 5 mg/ml. In silico structural modeling indicated that the three-dimensional structure of ChloroIBP was that of a right-handed \xce\xb2-helix. Site-directed mutagenesis of ChloroIBP showed that a conserved region of six parallel T-X-T motifs on the \xce\xb2-2 face was the ice-binding region, as predicted from the model. In addition to disulfide bonding, hydrophobic interactions between inward-pointing residues on the \xce\xb2-1 and \xce\xb2-2 faces, in the region of ice-binding motifs, were crucial to maintaining the structural conformation of ice-binding site and the ice-binding activity of ChloroIBP. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Nitric oxide (NO) functions as a signaling molecule in many biological processes in species belonging to all kingdoms of life. In animal cells, NO is synthesized primarily by NO synthase (NOS), an enzyme that catalyze the NADPH-dependent oxidation of L-arginine to NO and L-citrulline. Three NOS isoforms have been identified, the constitutive neuronal NOS (nNOS) and endothelial NOS (eNOS) and one inducible (iNOS). Plant NO synthesis is complex and is a matter of ongoing investigation and debate. Despite evidence of an Arg-dependent pathway for NO synthesis in plants, no plant NOS homologs to animal forms have been identified to date. In plants, there is also evidence for a nitrate-dependent mechanism of NO synthesis, catalyzed by cytosolic nitrate reductase. The existence of a NOS enzyme in the plant kingdom, from the tiny single-celled green alga Ostreococcus tauri was reported in 2010. O. tauri shares a common ancestor with higher plants and is considered to be part of an early diverging class within the green plant lineage.In this chapter we describe detailed protocols to study the expression and characterization of the enzymatic activity of NOS from O. tauri. The most used methods for the characterization of a canonical NOS are the analysis of spectral properties of the oxyferrous complex in the heme domain, the oxyhemoglobin (oxyHb) and citrulline assays and the NADPH oxidation for in vitro analysis of its activity or the use of fluorescent probes and Griess assay for in vivo NO determination. We further discuss the advantages and drawbacks of each method. Finally, we remark factors associated to the measurement of NOS activity in photosynthetic organisms that can generate misunderstandings in the interpretation of results. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The red pigment caulerpin, a secondary metabolite from the marine invasive green algae Caulerpa cylindracea can be accumulated and transferred along the trophic chain, with detrimental consequences on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning. Despite increasing research efforts to understand how caulerpin modifies fish physiology, little is known on the effects of algal metabolites on mammalian cells. Here we report for the first time the mitochondrial targeting activity of both caulerpin, and its closely related derivative caulerpinic acid, by using as experimental model rat liver mitochondria, a system in which bioenergetics mechanisms are not altered. Mitochondrial function was tested by polarographic and spectrophotometric methods. Both compounds were found to selectively inhibit respiratory complex II activity, while complexes I, III, and IV remained functional. These results led us to hypothesize that both algal metabolites could be used as antitumor agents in cell lines with defects in mitochondrial complex I. Ovarian cancer cisplatin-resistant cells are a good example of cell lines with a defective complex I function on which these molecules seem to have a toxic effect on proliferation. This provided novel insight toward the potential use of metabolites from invasive Caulerpa species for the treatment of human ovarian carcinoma cisplatin-resistant cells. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Recent studies show the feasibility of photodynamic inactivation of green algae as a vital step towards an effective photodynamic suppression of biofilms by using functionalized surfaces. The investigation of the intrinsic mechanisms of photodynamic inactivation in green algae represents the next step in order to determine optimization parameters. The observation of singlet oxygen luminescence kinetics proved to be a very effective approach towards understanding mechanisms on a cellular level. In this study, the first two-dimensional measurement of singlet oxygen kinetics in phototrophic microorganisms on surfaces during photodynamic inactivation is presented. We established a system of reproducible algae samples on surfaces, incubated with two different cationic, antimicrobial potent photosensitizers. Fluorescence microscopy images indicate that one photosensitizer localizes inside the green algae while the other accumulates along the outer algae cell wall. A newly developed setup allows for the measurement of singlet oxygen luminescence on the green algae sample surfaces over several days. The kinetics of the singlet oxygen luminescence of both photosensitizers show different developments and a distinct change over time, corresponding with the differences in their localization as well as their photosensitization potential. While the complexity of the signal reveals a challenge for the future, this study incontrovertibly marks a crucial, inevitable step in the investigation of photodynamic inactivation of biofilms: it shows the feasibility of using the singlet oxygen luminescence kinetics to investigate photodynamic effects on surfaces and thus opens a field for numerous investigations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Circadian clocks are fundamental to the biology of most eukaryotes, coordinating behaviour and physiology to resonate with the environmental cycle of day and night through complex networks of clock-controlled genes. A fundamental knowledge gap exists, however, between circadian gene expression cycles and the biochemical mechanisms that ultimately facilitate circadian regulation of cell biology. Here we report circadian rhythms in the intracellular concentration of magnesium ions, [Mg(2+)]i, which act as a cell-autonomous timekeeping component to determine key clock properties both in a human cell line and in a unicellular alga that diverged from each other more than 1 billion years ago. Given the essential role of Mg(2+) as a cofactor for ATP, a functional consequence of [Mg(2+)]i oscillations is dynamic regulation of cellular energy expenditure over the daily cycle. Mechanistically, we find that these rhythms provide bilateral feedback linking rhythmic metabolism to clock-controlled gene expression. The global regulation of nucleotide triphosphate turnover by intracellular Mg(2+) availability has potential to impact upon many of the cell's more than 600 MgATP-dependent enzymes and every cellular system where MgNTP hydrolysis becomes rate limiting. Indeed, we find that circadian control of translation by mTOR is regulated through [Mg(2+)]i oscillations. It will now be important to identify which additional biological processes are subject to this form of regulation in tissues of multicellular organisms such as plants and humans, in the context of health and disease. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Microalgae has recalcitrant cell walls that may limit digestibility and, therefore, reduce bioenergy production. In light of the fact that cellulose can increase the cell wall recalcitrance of the Haematococcus pluvialis species of microalgae, the objective of this research was to examine how bioaugmentation with the Clostridium thermocellum at various inoculum ratios represents a viable method by which the CH4 production of microalgae can be enhanced. The results of the investigation revealed that bioaugmentation with C. thermocellum increased the degradation of H. pluvialis biomass and resulted in a 18-38\xc2\xa0% increase in methane production as a result of increased cell disruption. In addition, the use of Illumina Miseq sequencing highlighted that the bacterial and archaeal diversity and quantities in the genus were enhanced as a result of the addition of C. thermocellum and this, in itself, improved the efficiency of the biodegradation. Bioaugmentation with C. thermocellum (%15) was also determined to represent the most energy-efficiency method of producing methane. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A Gram-stain-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming, rod-shaped bacterium, designated strain GYP-24T, was isolated from the culture broth of a marine microalga, Picochlorum sp. 122. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain GYP-24T forms a robust cluster with H.wangdoniaseohaensis KCTC 32177T (95.8\xe2\x80\x89% sequence similarity) in the family Flavobacteriaceae. Growth of strain GYP-24T was observed at 15, 22, 28, 30, 33 and 37\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C (optimal 30-33\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C), pH 6.0-10.0 (optimal pH 7.0-8.0) and in the presence of 0.5-4\xe2\x80\x89% (w/v) NaCl (optimal 2-3\xe2\x80\x89%). The only menaquinone of strain GYP-24T was MK-6, and the G+C content of the genomic DNA was 36.9 mol%. The major fatty acid profile comprised iso-C17\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890 3-OH, summed feature 3 (C16\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x891\xe2\x80\x89\xcf\x897c/\xcf\x896c), iso-C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x891 G and iso-C15\xe2\x80\x89:\xe2\x80\x890. The major polar lipids of strain GYP-24T were phosphatidylethanolamine, one unidentified phospholipid, three unidentified aminolipids and three unidentified lipids. Comprehensive analyses based on polyphasic characterization of GYP-24T indicated that it represents a novel species of a new genus, for which the name Gelatiniphilus marinus gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is GYP-24T (=KCTC 42903T=MCCC 1K01730T). An emended description of the genus Hwangdonia is also given. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A two-step strategy comprising heterotrophic cultivation and photo-chemical modulator induction was developed to enhance biomass and lipid accumulation in the oleaginous Monoraphidium sp. QLY-1, which was isolated from Qilu Lake in Yunnan Plateau. The algae were first cultivated heterotrophically to achieve high biomass concentration (5.54gL(-1)) with a lipid content of 22.47%. The cultivated algae were diluted, transferred to light environment, and treated with different chemical elicitors. Results showed that the lipid content increased to 36.68% after 3-day of photoinduction. The lipid content was further enhanced by 1.21, 1.32, and 1.29 folds in algal cells treated with nitrogen deficiency, 20gL(-1) NaCl, and 5mM glycine betaine, respectively. The maximum lipid content (48.54%) and lipid productivity (121.27mgL(-1)d(-1)) were obtained in treatments with 20gL(-1) NaCl and 5mM GB, respectively. This study proposes a strategy to efficiently produce lipids by using microalgae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Photosynthetic organisms have various pigments enabling them to adapt to various light environments. Green plants are divided into two groups: streptophytes and chlorophytes. Streptophytes include some freshwater green algae and land plants, while chlorophytes comprise the other freshwater green algae and seawater green algae. The environmental conditions driving the divergence of green plants into these two groups and the changes in photosynthetic properties accompanying their evolution remain unknown. Here, we separated the core antennae of PSI and the peripheral antennae [light-harvesting complexes (LHCs)] in green plants by green-native gel electrophoresis and determined their pigment compositions. Freshwater green algae and land plants have high Chl a/b ratios, with most Chl b existing in LHCs. In contrast, seawater green algae have low Chl a/b ratios. In addition, Chl b exists not only in LHCs but also in PSI core antennae in these organisms, a situation beneficial for survival in deep seawater, where blue-green light is the dominant light source. Finally, low-energy Chl (red Chl) of PSI was detected in freshwater green algae and land plants, but not in seawater green algae. We thus conclude that the different level of Chl b accumulation in core antennae and differences in PSI red Chl between freshwater and seawater green algae are evolutionary adaptations of these algae to their habitats, especially to high- or low-light environments. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A split-column photobioreactor (SC-PBR), consisting of two bubble columns with different sizes, was developed to enhance the photon utilization efficiency in an astaxanthin production process from Haematococcus lacustris. Among the two columns, only the smaller column of SC-PBR was illuminated. Astaxanthin productivities and photon efficiencies of the SC-PBRs were compared with a standard bubble-column PBR (BC-PBR). Astaxanthin productivity of SC-PBR was improved by 28%, and the photon utilization efficiencies were 28-366% higher than the original BC-PBR. The results clearly show that the effective light regime of SC-PBR could enhance the production of astaxanthin. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The green microalga Botryococcus braunii is considered a promising biofuel feedstock producer due to its prodigious accumulation of hydrocarbon oils that can be converted into fuels. B. braunii Race L produces the C40 tetraterpenoid hydrocarbon lycopadiene via an uncharacterized biosynthetic pathway. Structural similarities suggest this pathway follows a biosynthetic mechanism analogous to that of C30 squalene. Confirming this hypothesis, the current study identifies C20 geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) as a precursor for lycopaoctaene biosynthesis, the first committed intermediate in the production of lycopadiene. Two squalene synthase (SS)-like complementary DNAs are identified in race L with one encoding a true SS and the other encoding an enzyme with lycopaoctaene synthase (LOS) activity. Interestingly, LOS uses alternative C15 and C20 prenyl diphosphate substrates to produce combinatorial hybrid hydrocarbons, but almost exclusively uses GGPP in vivo. This discovery highlights how SS enzyme diversification results in the production of specialized tetraterpenoid oils in race L of B. braunii. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"On the basis of fundamental genetic transformation technologies, the goal of this study was to optimize Tetraselmis subcordiformis chloroplast transformation through the use of endogenous regulators. The genes rrn16S, rbcL, psbA, and psbC are commonly highly expressed in chloroplasts, and the regulators of these genes are often used in chloroplast transformation. For lack of a known chloroplast genome sequence, the genome-walking method was used here to obtain full sequences of T. subcordiformis endogenous regulators. The resulting regulators, including three promoters, two terminators, and a ribosome combination sequence, were inserted into the previously constructed plasmid pPSC-R, with the egfp gene included as a reporter gene, and five chloroplast expression vectors prepared. These vectors were successfully transformed into T. subcordiformis by particle bombardment and the efficiency of each vector tested by assessing EGFP fluorescence via microscopy. The results showed that these vectors exhibited higher efficiency than the former vector pPSC-G carrying exogenous regulators, and the vector pRFA with Prrn, psbA-5'RE, and TpsbA showed the highest efficiency. This research provides a set of effective endogenous regulators for T. subcordiformis and will facilitate future fundamental studies of this alga. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'A bacterial endosymbiont was unexpectedly found in the "axenic" culture strain of the streptophyte green alga Mesostigma viride (NIES-995). Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the symbiont belongs to the order Rickettsiales, specifically to the recently designated clade "Candidatus Megaira," which is closely related to the well-known Rickettsia clade. Rickettsiales bacteria of the "Ca. Megaira" clade are found in a taxonomically diverse array of eukaryotic hosts, including chlorophycean green algae, several ciliate species, and invertebrates such as Hydra. Transmission electron microscopy, fluorescence in\xc2\xa0situ hybridi-zation, and SYBR Green I staining experiments revealed that the endosymbiont of M.\xc2\xa0viride NIES-995 is rod shaped, typically occurs in clusters, and is surrounded by a halo-like structure, presumably formed by secretory substances from the bacterium. Two additional M.\xc2\xa0viride strains (NIES-296 and NIES-475), but not SAG50-1, were found to house the rickettsial endosymbiont. Analyses of strain NIES-995 transcriptome data indicated the presence of at least 91 transcriptionally active genes of symbiont origins. These include genes for surface proteins (e.g., rOmpB) that are known to play key roles in bacterial attachment onto host eukaryotes in related Rickettsia species. The assembled M.\xc2\xa0viride transcriptome includes transcripts that code for a suite of predicted algal-derived proteins, such as Ku70, WASH, SCAR, and CDC42, which may be important in the formation of the algal-rickettsial association. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The green microalga Apatococcus lobatus is widely distributed in terrestrial habitats throughout many climatic zones. It dominates green biofilms on natural and artificial substrata in temperate latitudes and is regarded as a key genus of obligate terrestrial consortia. Until now, its isolation, cultivation and application as a terrestrial model organism has been hampered by slow growth rates and low growth capacities. A mixotrophic culturing approach clearly enhanced the accumulation of biomass, thereby permitting the future application of A.\xc2\xa0lobatus in different types of bio-assays necessary for material and biofilm research. The ability of A.\xc2\xa0lobatus to grow mixotrophically is assumed as a competitive advantage in terrestrial habitats. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Crude oil and refined petroleum products contain many polycyclic and heterocyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, in particular, alkylated PAHs. Although alkylated PAHs are found in significantly higher quantities than their corresponding unsubstituted PAHs, the most studies on the physico-chemical properties and toxicities of these compounds have been conducted on unsubstituted PAHs. In this study, we measured crucial physico-chemical properties (i.e., water solubility, partition coefficients between polydimethylsiloxane and water (KPDMSw), and partition coefficient between liposomes and water (Klipw)) of selected alkylated PAHs, and evaluated their toxicity using the luminescence inhibition of Aliivibrio fischeri and growth inhibition of Raphidocelis subcapitata. In general, the logarithms of these properties for alkylated PAHs showed good linear correlations with log Kow, as did those for unsubstituted PAHs. Changes in molecular symmetry on the introduction of alkyl groups on aromatic ring structure significantly altered water solubility. The inhibition of bacterial luminescence and algal growth by alkylated PAHs can be explained well by the baseline toxicity hypothesis, and good linear relationships between log Kow or log Klipw and log (1/EC50) were found. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Harvesting of the micro alga Chlorococcum sp. R-AP13 through autoflocculation, chemical flocculants or by change in medium pH was evaluated. Surface charge of algal cells changed in response to the method used and affected flocculation efficiency. While aluminum sulfate and FeCl3 supported 87% and 92% efficiency, auto flocculation could recover 75% of biomass in 10min. Maximum efficiency (94%) was obtained with change in medium pH from 8.5 to 12.0 achieved through addition of 40mgl(-1) of NaOH. Since high concentrations of FeCl3 and AlSO4 were toxic to the cells, flocculation induced by pH change may be considered the most effective strategy. Residual medium after flocculation could be reused efficiently for algal cultivation, minimizing the demand for fresh water. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Eutrophication affects seagrasses negatively by increasing light attenuation through stimulation of biomass of fast-growing, bloom-forming algae and because high concentrations of ammonium in the water can be toxic to higher plants. We hypothesized nevertheless, that moderate amounts of nitrophilic macroalgae that coexists with seagrasses under eutrophic conditions, can alleviate the harmful effects of eutrophication on seagrasses by reducing ammonium concentrations in the seawater to non-toxic levels because such algae have a very large capacity to take up inorganic nutrients. We studied therefore how combinations of different ammonium concentrations (0, 25 and 50 \xce\xbcM) and different standing stocks of macroalgae (i.e. 0, 1 and 6 layers of Ulva sp.) affected survival, growth and net production of the seagrass Zostera noltei. In the absence of Ulva sp., increasing ammonium concentrations had a negative influence on the performance of Z. noltei. The presence of Ulva sp. without ammonium supply had a similar, but slightly smaller, negative effect on seagrass fitness due to light attenuation. When ammonium enrichment was combined with presence of Ulva sp., Ulva sp. ameliorated some of negative effects caused by high ammonium availability although Ulva sp. lowered the availability of light. Benthic microalgae, which increased in biomass during the experiment, seemed to play a similar role as Ulva sp.--they contributed to remove ammonium from the water, and thus, aided to keep the ammonium concentrations experienced by Z. noltei at relatively non-toxic levels. Our findings show that moderate amounts of drift macroalgae, eventually combined with increasing stocks of benthic microalgae, may aid seagrasses to alleviate toxic effects of ammonium under eutrophic conditions, which highlights the importance of high functional diversity for ecosystem resistance to anthropogenic disturbance. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Identifying factors that influence species interactions is central to research in symbiotic systems. While lichens represent iconic models of symbiosis and play important roles in understanding the biology of symbiotic interactions, patterns of interactions in lichen symbionts and mechanisms governing these relationships are not well characterized. This is due, in part to the fact that current taxonomic approaches for recognizing diversity in lichen symbionts commonly fail to accurately reflect actual species diversity. In this study, we employed DNA-based approaches to circumscribed candidate species-level lineages in rock-posy lichen symbionts (mycobiont=Rhizoplaca s. lat. species; photobiont=Trebouxia species). Our results revealed a high degree of cryptic diversity in both the myco- and photobionts in these lichens. Using the candidate species circumscribed here, we investigated the specificity of the symbionts toward their partners and inferred the relative importance of various factors influencing symbiont interactions. Distinct mycobiont species complexes, ecozones, and biomes are significantly correlated with the occurrence of photobiont OTUs, indicating that complex interactions among mycobiont lineages, ecogeography, and microhabitat determine interactions between photobionts and their mycobionts in lichen symbiosis. One-to-one specificity between mycobiont and photobiont species was not found, with the exception of R. maheui that associated with a single Trebouxia OTU that was not found with other Rhizoplaca s. lat. species. We estimated the most recent common ancestor of the core Rhizoplaca group at c. 62.5Ma, similar in age to the diverse parmelioid core group in the well-studied family Parmeliaceae. However, in contrast to Parmeliaceae, species in Rhizoplaca were found to associate with a narrow range of photobionts. Our study provides important perspectives into species diversity and interactions in iconic lichen symbiotic systems and establishes a valuable framework for continuing research into rock-posy lichens. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the last decade, field studies in the northern Arabian Sea showed a drastic shift from diatom-dominated phytoplankton blooms to thick and widespread blooms of the green dinoflagellate, Noctiluca scintillans. Unlike the exclusively heterotrophic red form, which occurs widely in tropical to temperate coastal waters, the green Noctiluca contains a large number of endosymbiotic algal cells that can perform photosynthesis. These symbiotic microalgae were first described under the genus Protoeuglena Subrahmanyan and further transferred to Pedinomonas as P. noctilucae Sweeney. In this study, we used the 18S rDNA, rbcL and chloroplast 16S rDNA as gene markers, in combination with the previously reported morphological features, to re-examine the phylogenetic position of this endosymbiotic algal species. Phylogenetic trees inferred from these genes consistently indicated that P. noctilucae is distantly related to the type species of Pedinomonas. The sequences formed a monophyletic clade sister to the clade of Marsupiomonas necessitating the placement of the algal symbionts as an independent genus within the family Marsupiomonadaceae. Based on the phylogenetic affiliation and ecological characteristics of this alga as well as the priority rule of nomenclature, we reinstate the genus Protoeuglena and reclassify the endosymbiont as Protoeuglena noctilucae. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Prasinophytes are widespread marine green algae that are related to plants. Cellular abundance of the prasinophyte Micromonas has reportedly increased in the Arctic due to climate-induced changes. Thus, studies of these unicellular eukaryotes are important for marine ecology and for understanding Viridiplantae evolution and diversification.RESULTS: We generated evidence-based Micromonas gene models using proteomics and RNA-Seq to improve prasinophyte genomic resources. First, sequences of four chromosomes in the 22 Mb Micromonas pusilla (CCMP1545) genome were finished. Comparison with the finished 21 Mb genome of Micromonas commoda (RCC299; named herein) shows they share \xe2\x89\xa48,141 of ~10,000 protein-encoding genes, depending on the analysis method. Unlike RCC299 and other sequenced eukaryotes, CCMP1545 has two abundant repetitive intron types and a high percent (26 %) GC splice donors. Micromonas has more genus-specific protein families (19 %) than other genome sequenced prasinophytes (11 %). Comparative analyses using predicted proteomes from other prasinophytes reveal proteins likely related to scale formation and ancestral photosynthesis. Our studies also indicate that peptidoglycan (PG) biosynthesis enzymes have been lost in multiple independent events in select prasinophytes and plants. However, CCMP1545, polar Micromonas CCMP2099 and prasinophytes from other classes retain the entire PG pathway, like moss and glaucophyte algae. Surprisingly, multiple vascular plants also have the PG pathway, except the Penicillin-Binding Protein, and share a unique bi-domain protein potentially associated with the pathway. Alongside Micromonas experiments using antibiotics that halt bacterial PG biosynthesis, the findings highlight unrecognized phylogenetic complexity in PG-pathway retention and implicate a role in chloroplast structure or division in several extant Viridiplantae lineages.CONCLUSIONS: Extensive differences in gene loss and architecture between related prasinophytes underscore their divergence. PG biosynthesis genes from the cyanobacterial endosymbiont that became the plastid, have been selectively retained in multiple plants and algae, implying a biological function. Our studies provide robust genomic resources for emerging model algae, advancing knowledge of marine phytoplankton and plant evolution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Coccomyxa is a genus of unicellular green algae of the class Trebouxiophyceae, well known for its cosmopolitan distribution and great ecological amplitude. The taxonomy of this genus has long been problematic, due to reliance on badly-defined and environmentally variable morphological characters. In this study, based on the discovery of a new species from an extreme habitat, we reassess species circumscription in Coccomyxa, a unicellular genus of the class Trebouxiophyceae, using a combination of ecological and DNA sequence data (analyzed with three different methods of algorithmic species delineation). Our results are compared with those of a recent integrative study of Darienko and colleagues that reassessed the taxonomy of Coccomyxa, recognizing 7 species in the genus. Expanding the dataset from 43 to 61 sequences (SSU + ITS rDNA) resulted in a different delimitation, supporting the recognition of a higher number of species (24 to 27 depending on the analysis used, with the 27-species scenario receiving the strongest support). Among these, C. melkonianii sp. nov. is described from material isolated from a river highly polluted by heavy metals (Rio Irvi, Sardinia, Italy). Analyses performed on ecological characters detected a significant phylogenetic signal in six different characters. We conclude that the 27-species scenario is presently the most realistic for Coccomyxa and we suggest that well-supported lineages distinguishable by ecological preferences should be recognized as different species in this genus. We also recommend that for microbial lineages in which the overall diversity is unknown and taxon sampling is sparse, as is often the case for green microalgae, the results of analyses for algorithmic DNA-based species delimitation should be interpreted with extreme caution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The microclimatic parameters (Ta, RH, E, and CO2) reflect the indoor quality of the environment. Their relationship, connected with the design of the building, can facilitate the growth of photo/heterotrophic organisms and therefore facilitate the increase of the relative CO2 production. Taking this into account, the impact of biological proliferation in a historical building is discussed for the Mithraeum of "Casa di Diana" in the archaeological site of Ostia Antica, which is subjected to guided tours. In this work, for the first time, we propose a study on biological monitoring to evaluate the contribution of bioactivity to air quality, with the objective to increase the comfort of visitors and to open the site for more than one day per week, suggesting possible tools providing a good compromise between building conservation and human comfort. In the sense, it has been possible to distinguish the contribution of the plants from the one deriving from humans: high values of carbon dioxide have been recorded during the night and its scarce removal during the day (air flow). The window present is not sufficient to eliminate the CO2, involving concentrations of CO2 relatively high in comparison to the proposed limits and guidelines defined by law. The obtained results strongly encouraged the elimination of flora in order to increase the comfort of visitors and to open the house for more than one day per week. Although, this process involves an important economic effort, the present study allows making an objective decision which has an important value in a cultural heritage management. Graphical Abstract CO2 contribute by bioactivity as damage to human health. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'AMP-forming acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACS) catalyzes the formation of acetyl-CoA. Here, a cDNA of ACS from Dunaliella tertiolecta (DtACS) was isolated using RACEs. The full-length DtACS cDNA (GenBank: KT692941) is 2,464 bp with a putative ORF of 2,184 bp, which encodes 727 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 79.72 kDa. DtACS has a close relationship with Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and Volvox carteri f. nagariensis. ACSs existing in Bacteria, Archaea and Eukaryota share ten conserved motifs (A1-A10) and three signature motifs (I-III) of the acyl-adenylate/thioester forming enzyme superfamily. DtACS was expressed in E. coli BL21 as Trx-His-tagged fusion protein (~100 kDa) and the enzymatic activity was detected. The recombinant DtACS was purified by HisTrap(TM) HP affinity chromatography to obtain a specific activity of 52.873 U/mg with a yield of 56.26%, which approached the specific activity of ACS isolated from other eukaryotes. Kinetic analysis indicated that the Km of DtACS was 3.59 mM for potassium acetate, and the purified DtACS exhibited a temperature optimum of 37\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C and a pH optimum of 8.0. In addition, the expression levels of DtACS were increased after nitrogen starvation cultivation, indicating that ACS activity may be related to the lipid accumulation under nitrogen deficient condition. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The halotolerant chlorophyte Dunaliella salina can accumulate up to 10% of its dry weight as \xce\xb2-carotene in chloroplasts when subjected to adverse conditions, including nutrient deprivation. However, the mechanisms of carotenoid biosynthesis are poorly understood. Here, the physiological and molecular responses to the deprivation of nitrogen (-N), sulfur (-S), phosphorus (-P) and different combinations of those nutrients (-N-P, -N-S, -P-S and -N-P-S) were compared to gain insights into the underlying regulatory mechanisms of carotenoid biosynthesis. The results showed that both the growth and photosynthetic rates of cells were decreased during nutrient deprivation, accompanied by lipid globule accumulation and reduced chlorophyll levels. The SOD and CAT activities of the cells were altered during nutrient deprivation, but their responses were different. The total carotenoid contents of cells subjected to multiple nutrient deprivation were higher than those of cells subjected to single nutrient deprivation and non-stressed cells. The \xce\xb2-carotene contents of cells subjected to -N-P, -N-S and -N-P-S were higher than those of cells subjected to single nutrient deprivation. Cells subjected to sulfur deprivation accumulated more lutein than cells subjected to nitrogen and phosphorous deprivation. In contrast, no cumulative effects of nutrient deprivation on the transcription of genes in the carotenogenic pathway were observed because MEP and carotenogenic pathway genes were up-regulated during single nutrient deprivation but were downregulated during multiple nutrient deprivation. Therefore, we proposed that the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway of D. salina is regulated at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels and that a complex crosstalk occurs at the physiological and molecular levels in response to the deprivation of different nutrients. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The DvCRP1 gene obtained from Dunaliella viridis is a cadmium-resistance gene that induces cadmium accumulation in microbial and plant cells. In the present study, Saccharomyces cerevisiae was used as a model system to investigate the effect of DvCRP1 on both cadmium detoxification and ethanol production. Inhibitory effects of cadmium (50-300\xe2\x80\x85\xc2\xb5mol/L) on growth (29-92%), glucose consumption (23-89%), and ethanol production (17-92%) were observed at 24\xe2\x80\x85h by S. cerevisiae. DvCRP1 alleviated the inhibitory effect of cadmium, with increase in the ethanol production. The established mathematical model showed that the initial inoculation concentration, cadmium concentration, and transformation of DvCRP1 were the most important factors for cell growth, glucose consumption, and ethanol production. Cadmium detoxification of yeast was also enhanced by increasing the initial concentration of yeast cells. Transforming with DvCRP1 further enhanced detoxification, especially at high cadmium concentrations. Transforming with DvCRP1 further enhanced detoxification, especially at high cadmium concentrations (200\xe2\x80\x85\xc2\xb5mol/L). The present results evidenced the potential of the insertion of the DvCRP1 gene into yeast for use in bio-refineries during fermentation of heavy metals-contaminated substrates. In addition, this is a promising method for phytoremediation of agricultural soils highly contaminated by heavy metals. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Many freshwater protists harbor unicellular green algae within their cells, but little is known of their degree of integration and specificity. Using algae-targeted PCR of whole ciliate cells collected at irregular intervals over 15 months from Lake Biwa, Japan, we explored the SSU-ITS rDNA of the endosymbiotic algae and its changes over time, obtaining sequences of algal rDNA fragments from four ciliate species. A high proportion of clonal algae was evident within the ciliate cells. The differences observed in those sequences from the SSU through to the ITS region were less than 1%. The name 'Chlorb' is proposed for these algae, with the implication that they represent a single 'species.' The sequences of the algal DNA fragments were identical for any given host species throughout the collection period, thus we conclude that these four ciliates stably retain their algae over long term. In contrast, algal DNA fragments obtained from Didinium sp. were variable within each sample, which indicates that this ciliate only temporarily holds its algal cells. The ITS1 sequences of Chlorb populations are close (at intraspecific level) to those of algae isolated from ciliates in Austria, which raises the possibility that Chlorb algae are universally shared as symbionts among various ciliates. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The knowledge on diet composition of the freshwater mussel Diplodon enno (Ortmann) would aid in its culture and propagation allowing, this way, the replacement of natural endangered populations in Brazil. Microalgae are the main food source for captive mussels and unionids have displayed an ability to sort algae based on the cellular characteristics prior to ingestion. The main objective of the present work is to analyze the phytoplankton composition of the water from and of the gastrointestinal contents of the mussel D. enno, as an initial step for development of a suitable rearing diet. Therefore, water samples and bivalve specimens were collected from S. Francisco River, city of Paulo Afonso, Bahia, Brazil. The microalgal composition found in water and stomach/gut content samples was very diverse being represented by the following divisions: Cyanophyta, Chlorophyta, Dinophyta and Heterokontophyta (Diatoms). Concerning the relative abundance of microalgae divisions, it is possible to state, for the water and gastrointestinal contents, that Cyanophyta represents 15% and 14%, Chlorophyta 54% in both, Heterokontophyta 31% and 27% and Dinophyta 0% and 5%, respectively. According to the Brazilian CETESB criteria for phytoplankton species classification, 50% of Cyanophyta and 15% of Chlorophyta species observed in the water samples were classified as "very frequent", as were 68% of Heterokontophyta and 33% of Chlorophyta species in the gut/stomach tract samples. Focusing at a species level, although in the water only Coelastrum sp. and Chroococcus sp. were observed in 100% and 75% of the samples, respectively, in the gastrointestinal tract the species Staurastrum sp., Aulacoseira sp., Scenedesmus sp. and Fragilaria crotonensis occurred in 80% to 100% of the samples. The present results showed that D. enno feeds not only on small chlorophytes microalgae, due to their convenient size that facilitates higher feeding rates, but also on large size diatoms, due to a possible nutritional advantage for the bivalves. Thus, a diet composed by large diatoms and small chlorophytes microalgae may be considered as the most reasonable for the maintenance of D. enno populations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Turf algae increasingly dominate benthic communities on coral reefs. Given their abundance and high dissolved organic carbon (DOC) release rates, turf algae are considered important contributors to the DOC pool on modern reefs. The release of photosynthetically fixed carbon as DOC generally, but not always, increases with increased light availability. Nutrient availability was proposed as an additional factor to explain these conflicting observations. To address this proposed but untested hypothesis, we documented the interactive contributions of light and nutrient availability on the release of DOC by turf algae. DOC release rates and oxygen production were quantified in incubation experiments at two light levels (full and reduced light) and two nutrient treatments (natural seawater and enriched seawater). In natural seawater, DOC release at full light was four times higher than at reduced light. When nutrients were added, DOC release rates at both light levels were similar to the natural seawater treatment at full light. Our results therefore show that low light in combination with low nutrient availability reduces the release of DOC by turf algae and that light and nutrient availability interactively determine DOC release rates by this important component of Caribbean reef communities. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Bioindustrial wastewaters, often characterised by high carbon and nitrogen contents, have shown promise as a valuable resource for the cultivation of beneficial microorganisms. The purpose of this study was to assess if Parachlorella kessleri could utilise brewery wastewater (Br WW) for growth and production of metabolites. P. kessleri was cultivated on different concentrations of Br WW over 14 days. Higher concentrations of Br WW led to an approximate two-fold increase in dry cell weight yielding a maximum of 12.3 g DCW/L. High glucose and nitrogen utilisation was associated with high algal biomass yields, with a 97% reduction in glucose achieved in 50% (v/v) Br WW cultures after 14 days. Assessing the benefits to P. kessleri, increases in oleic and \xce\xb1-linoleic acids were seen in 50 and 10% (v/v) Br WW cultures. Concentration of Br WW did not have an impact on the overall antioxidant activities of microalgal cultures, however, it did affect phenolic levels (2.4-fold increase) in 50% (v/v) Br WW cultures. This research demonstrated that P. kessleri did utilise the carbon and nitrogen content in the Br WW for growth and metabolite production, thereby reducing the nutrient load of the Br WW. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"The engagement of different photoprotective mechanisms in the cells of the carotenogenic astaxanthin-accumulating chlorophyte Haematococcus pluvialis (i) under favorable conditions, (ii) in the course of stress-induced haematocyst formation and (iii) during recovery from the stress was studied. To this end, we followed the changes in primary photochemistry, electron flow at the acceptor side of photosystem II, and non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) using PAM chlorophyll fluorimetry. A general trend recorded in the stressed cells undergoing transition to haematocysts (and reversed during recovery from the stress) was a gradual reduction of the photosynthetic apparatus accompanied by down-regulation of energy-dependent photoprotective mechanisms such as NPQ, along with the accumulation of astaxanthin. On this background, a transient up-regulation of the photosynthetic activity was detected at the intermediated stages (20-50\xc2\xa0h of the stress exposure) of haematocyst formation. This phenomenon was tentatively related with the peak of metabolic activity found earlier in the forming haematocysts. The role of secondary carotenogenesis coupled with a reversible transition from 'active' (energy-dependent) to 'passive' photoprotective mechanisms in the extremely high stress tolerance of carotenogenic phototrophs is discussed. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'A mechanistic study was performed to evaluate the effect of salinity on cationic polymeric flocculants, that are used for the harvesting of microalgae. The polyacrylamide Synthofloc 5080H and the polysaccharide Chitosan were employed for the flocculation of Neochloris oleoabundans. In seawater conditions, a maximum biomass recovery of 66% was obtained with a dosage of 90mg/L Chitosan. This recovery was approximately 25% lower compared to Synthofloc 5080H reaching recoveries greater than 90% with dosages of 30mg/L. Although different recoveries were obtained with both flocculants, the polymers exhibit a similar apparent polymer length, as was evaluated from viscosity measurements. While both flocculants exhibit similar polymer lengths in increasing salinity, the zeta potential differs. This indicates that polymeric charge dominates flocculation. With increased salinity, the effectivity of cationic polymeric flocculants decreases due to a reduction in cationic charge. This mechanism was confirmed through a SEM analysis and additional experiments using flocculants with various charge densities. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'AIMS: The present study was undertaken to investigate the protective effect of lipid extract of Dunaliella sp. (LE) rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), against oxidative stress induced by nickel in experimental rats.METHODS: Our investigation evaluated the antioxidant activity of LE using both DPPH and NBT assays. Twenty female albino Wistar rats, randomly allocated into four experimental groups, namely (C): control, (Nit): nickel-treated rats with 5\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg/d of NiCl2 during 30 days, (LEa): lipid extract-administered rats with 5 \xe2\x80\x89mg/kg BW/d during 30 days and (Nit\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89LEa): rats treated with Ni and LE-administered during 30 days.RESULTS: The in vitro antioxidant activity demonstrated that LE presents an important antioxidant potential. In vivo, the (Nit\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89LEa) cotreatment decreased the level of malondialdehyde and restored the antioxidant enzyme activities (superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione peroxidase) in livers and kidneys in comparison with those treated with Ni only. LE administration to rats treated with Ni also ameliorated biochemical and histological parameters as compared to only Ni-treated group. LE of Dunaliella sp., rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids showed a significant hepato- and reno-protective effect against metal-induced toxicity.CONCLUSION: LE of Dunaliella sp., rich in PUFA has been proven to be effective in protection against Ni-induced toxicity. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Trebouxia is the most common lichen-forming genus of aero-terrestrial green algae and all its species are desiccation tolerant (DT). The molecular bases of this remarkable adaptation are, however, still largely unknown. We applied a transcriptomic approach to a common member of the genus, T. gelatinosa, to investigate the alteration of gene expression occurring after dehydration and subsequent rehydration in comparison to cells kept constantly hydrated. We sequenced, de novo assembled and annotated the transcriptome of axenically cultured T. gelatinosa by using Illumina sequencing technology. We tracked the expression profiles of over 13,000 protein-coding transcripts. During the dehydration/rehydration cycle c. 92\xc2\xa0% of the total protein-coding transcripts displayed a stable expression, suggesting that the desiccation tolerance of T. gelatinosa mostly relies on constitutive mechanisms. Dehydration and rehydration affected mainly the gene expression for components of the photosynthetic apparatus, the ROS-scavenging system, Heat Shock Proteins, aquaporins, expansins, and desiccation related proteins (DRPs), which are highly diversified in T. gelatinosa, whereas Late Embryogenesis Abundant Proteins were not affected. Only some of these phenomena were previously observed in other DT green algae, bryophytes and resurrection plants, other traits being distinctive of T. gelatinosa, and perhaps related to its symbiotic lifestyle. Finally, the phylogenetic inference extended to DRPs of other chlorophytes, embryophytes and bacteria clearly pointed out that DRPs of chlorophytes are not orthologous to those of embryophytes: some of them were likely acquired through horizontal gene transfer from extremophile bacteria which live in symbiosis within the lichen thallus. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Extraction of compounds from microalgae requires cell disruption as a pretreatment to increase extraction yield. Botryococcus braunii is a microalga with a significant content of carotenoids and other antioxidant compounds, such as chlorophylls. Cell disruption of B. braunii using CO2 rapid depressurization was studied as a pretreatment for the extraction of carotenoid and chlorophyll pigments. We studied the effect of temperature (21-49\xc2\xb0C) and pressure (6-13MPa) during static compression on pigment recovery with supercritical CO2 at 40\xc2\xb0C, 30MPa and solvent flow of 4.7LNPT/min. Within the experimental region, the extraction yield of carotenoids and chlorophylls increased by 2.4- and 2.2-fold respectively. Static compression conditions of high pressure and low temperature increased the extraction of carotenoids and especially chlorophylls. We selected 21\xc2\xb0C and 13MPa as the cell disruption condition, which produced 1.91g/kg d.s. of carotenoids and 14.03mg/kg d.s. of chlorophylls. Pretreated microalga gave a 10-fold higher chlorophyll extraction yield compared to the untreated sample. While for carotenoids and tocopherols were 1.25 and 1.14-fold higher, respectively. Additionally, antioxidant activity of pretreated microalga (33.22mmol TE/kg oil) was significantly higher than the value for the untreated samples (29.11mmol TE/kg oil) (p\xe2\x89\xa40.05). Confocal microscopy images showed morphological differences between micro-colonies with and without disruption treatment, suggesting that partial cell disruption by rapid depressurization improved the extraction of microalga compounds. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The occurrence of antibiotic residues in the aquatic environment is an emerging concern. In contrast to daphnia and fish, algae are known to be particularly sensitive to antibiotic exposure. However, to date, a systematic evaluation of the sensitivity of different algal species to antibiotics has not been performed. The aim of the present study was therefore to explore the sensitivity of a battery of algal species toward antibiotic exposures. The present study investigated the growth inhibition effects of 3 major-use antibiotics, tylosin, lincomycin, and trimethoprim, on 7 algal species from the chlorophyte, cyanobacteria, and diatom groups. Based on median effective concentration (EC50) values, cyanobacteria (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.095-0.13\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L) were found to be the most sensitive group to lincomycin followed by chlorophytes (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x897.36-225.73\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L) and diatoms (EC50>225.73\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L). Cyanobacteria were also the most sensitive group to tylosin (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.09-0.092\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L), but, for this compound, diatoms (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.33-5.7\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L) were more sensitive than chlorophytes (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.14-81.2\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L). Diatoms were most sensitive to trimethoprim (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x897.36-74.61\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L), followed by cyanobacteria (EC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89315.78-344.45\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L), and chlorophytes (EC50>344.45\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol/L) for trimethoprim. Although these results partly support the current approach to regulatory environmental risk assessment (whereby cyanobacterial species are recommended for use with antibiotic compounds), they indicate that for some antibiotics this group might not be the most appropriate test organism. It is therefore suggested that environmental risk assessments consider data on 3 algal groups (chlorophytes, cyanobacteria, and diatoms) and use test species from these groups, which are consistently found to be the most sensitive (Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, Anabaena flos-aquae, and Navicula pelliculosa). Environ Toxicol Chem 2016;35:2587-2596. \xc2\xa9 2016 SETAC. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Ulvalean algae (Chlorophyta) are most commonly described from intertidal and shallow subtidal marine environments worldwide, but are less well known from mesophotic environments. Their morphological simplicity and phenotypic plasticity make accurate species determinations difficult, even at the generic level. Here, we describe the mesophotic Ulvales species composition from 13 locations across 2,300 km of the Hawaiian Archipelago. Twenty-eight representative Ulvales specimens from 64 to 125 m depths were collected using technical diving, submersibles, and remotely operated vehicles. Morphological and molecular characters suggest that mesophotic Ulvales in Hawaiian waters form unique communities comprising four species within the genera Ulva and Umbraulva, each with discrete geographic and/or depth-related distributional patterns. Three genetically distinct taxa are supported by both plastid (rbcL and tufA) and nuclear (ITS1) markers, and are presented here as new species: Umbraulva kaloakulau, Ulva ohiohilulu, and Ulva iliohaha. We also propose a new Umbraulva species (Umbraulva kuaweuweu), which is closely related to subtidal records from New Zealand and Australia, but not formally described. To our knowledge, these are the first marine species descriptions from Hawai'i resulting from the collaboration of traditional Hawaiian nomenclature specialists, cultural practitioners and scientists. The difficulty of finding reliable diagnostic morphological characters for these species reflects a common problem worldwide of achieving accurate identification of ulvalean taxa using solely morphological criteria. Mesophotic Ulvales appear to be distinct from shallow-water populations in Hawai'i, but their degree of similarity to mesophotic floras in other locations in the Pacific remains unknown. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The ecological importance and diversity of pico/nanoplanktonic algae remains poorly studied in marine waters, in part because many are tiny and without distinctive morphological features. Amongst green algae, Mamiellophyceae such as Micromonas or Bathycoccus are dominant in coastal waters while prasinophytes clade VII, yet not formerly described, appear to be major players in open oceanic waters. The pigment composition of 14 strains representative of different subclades of clade VII was analyzed using a method that improves the separation of loroxanthin and neoxanthin. All the prasinophytes clade VII analyzed here showed a pigment composition similar to that previously reported for RCC287 corresponding to pigment group prasino-2A. However, we detected in addition astaxanthin for which it is the first report in prasinophytes. Among the strains analyzed, the pigment signature is qualitatively similar within subclades A and B. By contrast, RCC3402 from subclade C (Picocystis) lacks loroxanthin, astaxanthin, and antheraxanthin but contains alloxanthin, diatoxanthin, and monadoxanthin that are usually found in diatoms or cryptophytes. For subclades A and B, loroxanthin was lowest at highest light irradiance suggesting a light-harvesting role of this pigment in clade VII as in Tetraselmis. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Glyphosate is a globally popular herbicide to kill weeds and its wide applications may lead to accumulation in coastal oceans as a source of phosphorus (P) nutrient or growth inhibitor of phytoplankton. We studied the physiological effects of glyphosate on fourteen species representing five major coastal phytoplankton phyla (haptophyta, bacillariophyta, dinoflagellata, raphidophyta, and chlorophyta). Based on growth responses to different concentrations of glyphosate under contrasting dissolved inorganic phosphorus (DIP) conditions, we found that phytoplankton species could be classified into five groups. Group I (Emiliania huxleyi, Skeletonema costatum, Phaeodactylum tricornutum) could utilize glyphosate as sole P-source to support growth in axenic culture, but in the presence of DIP, they were inhibited by both 36-\xce\xbcM and 360-\xce\xbcM glyphosate. Group II (Karenia mikimotoi, Prorocentrum minimum, Dunaliella tertiolecta, Symbiodinium sp., Heterosigma akashiwo and Alexandrium catenella) could not utilize glyphosate as sole P-source to support growth, and in the presence of DIP growth was not affected by 36-\xce\xbcM but inhibited by 360-\xce\xbcM glyphosate. Glyphosate consistently enhanced growth of Group III (Isochrysis galbana) and inhibited Group IV (Thalassiosira weissflogii, Thalassiosira pseudonana and Chattonella marina) regardless of DIP condition. Group V (Amphidinium carterae) exhibited no measurable response to glyphosate regardless of DIP condition. This grouping is not congruent with the phylogenetic relationships of the phytoplankton species suggesting functional differentiation driven by environmental pressure. We conclude that glyphosate could be used as P-source by some species while is toxic to some other species and yet has no effects on others. The observed differential effects suggest that the continued use of glyphosate and increasing concentration of this herbicide in the coastal waters will likely exert significant impact on coastal marine phytoplankton community structure. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"The consumption of polyamides produced from caprolactam is increasing continuously, and for that reason the danger of environmental contamination by this lactam is also rising. This study's aim was to evaluate the influence of caprolactam on the growth and oxygen production of the green alga Desmodesmus quadricauda and on caprolactam uptake by this alga. The presence of caprolactam in water was observed to cause the algae significantly to increase its oxygen production. Caprolactam concentration of 5,000\xc2\xa0mg/L stopped algae growth after 6 days and influenced coenobia structure (seen as disappearance of pyrenoids, deformation of cells) but did not decrease the number of cells in the coenobia. Caprolactam uptake is probably passive but relatively rapid. Maximum concentration in the algae was reached after 18-24\xc2\xa0h. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Chlorophyll fluorescence is an information-rich signal which provides an access to the management of light absorbed by PSII. A good example of this is the succession of fast fluorescence fluctuations during light-induced photosynthetic induction after dark-adaptation. During this period, the fluorescence trace exhibits several inflexion points: O-J-I-P-S-M-T. Whereas the OJIP part of this kinetics has been the subject of many studies, the processes that underly the PSMT transient are less understood. Here, we report an analysis of the PSMT phase in the green microalga Haematococcus pluvialis in terms of electron acceptors and light use by photochemistry, fluorescence and non-photochemical quenching (NPQ). We identify additional sub-phases between P and S delimited by an inflexion point, that we name Q, found in the second time scale. The P-Q phase expresses a transient photochemical quenching specifically due to alternative electron transport to oxygen. During the transition from Q to S, the NPQ increases and then relaxes during the S-M phase in about 1\xc2\xa0min. It is suggested that this transient NPQ observed during induction is a high energy state quenching (qE) dependent on the alternative electron transport to molecular oxygen. We further show that this NPQ is of the same nature than the NPQ, known as the low-wave phenomenon, which is transiently observed after a saturating light pulse given at steady-state. In both cases, the NPQ is oxygen-dependent. This NPQ is observed at external pH 6.0, but not at pH 7.5, which seems correlated with faster saturation of the PQ pool at pH 6.0. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A green microalga, Tetraselmis sp., was cultivated in the coastal seawater of Young-Heung Island using semi-permeable membrane photobioreactors (SPM-PBRs) in different seasons. The microalgae in the SPM-PBRs were able to grow on nutrients diffused into the PBRs from the surrounding seawater through SPMs. The biomass productivity varied depending on the ion permeabilities of the SPMs and environmental conditions, whereas the quality and quantity of fatty acids were constant. The temperature of seawater had a greater influence than solar radiation did on productivity of Tetraselmis sp. in SPM-PBRs. SPM-PBRs could provide technologies for concurrent algal biomass and fatty acids production, and eutrophication reduction in the ocean. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Phytoplankton species distribution and composition were determined by using microscopy and pigment ratios in the Kongsfjorden during early autumn 2012. Variation in sea surface temperature (SST) was minimal and matched well with satellite-derived SST. Nutrients were generally limited. Surface phytoplankton abundance ranged from 0.21\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910(3) to 10.28\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910(3) cells\xc2\xa0L(-1). Phytoplankton abundance decreased with depth and did not show any significant correlation with chlorophyll a (chl a). Column-integrated phytoplankton cell counts (PCC) ranged from 94.3\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910(6) cells\xc2\xa0m(-2) (Kf4) to 13.7\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910(6) cells\xc2\xa0m(-2) (Kf5), while chl a was lowest at inner part of the fjord (6.3\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0m(-2)) and highest towards the mouth (24.83\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0m(-2)). Biomass from prymnesiophytes and raphidophytes dominated at surface and 10\xc2\xa0m, respectively. The contribution of Bacillariophyceae to biomass was low. Generally, heterotrophic dinoflagellates were great in abundance (12.82\xc2\xa0%) and ubiquitous in nature and were major contributors to biomass. Various chl pigments (chl b, chl c, phaeopigments (phaeo)) were measured to obtain pigment/chl a ratios to ascertain phytoplankton composition. Phaeo were observed only in inner fjord. Chl b:a ratios and microscopic observations indicated dominance of Chlorophyceae at greater depths than surface. Furthermore, microscopic observations confirmed dominance of chl c containing algae throughout the fjord. The study indicates that pigment ratios can be used as a tool for preliminary identification of major phytoplankton groups. However, under the presence of a large number of heterotrophic dinoflagellates such as Gymnodinium sp. and Gyrodinium sp., pigment signatures need to be supplemented by microscopic observations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: High-density cultures require operating below the critical threshold of shear stress, in order to avoid reducing the specific growth rate of the cells. When determining this threshold, direct inspection of the cells in flow provides insight into the conditions of shearing.OBJECTIVE: Aim of this study was using a novel rheo-optical setup for the observation of cells in laminar shear flow and the determination of the critical shear stress required to damage them in their natural environment.METHODS: Dunaliella salina cells were sheared and observed in flow for shear stresses of up to 90\xc2\xa0Pa, at ambient temperature, without adding thickeners. The critical shear stress was determined by fitting a hydrodynamics-based criterion to the experimental data on the percentage of deformed cells after shearing.RESULTS: Single cells, clusters and strings of cells were visible in shear flow. The strings formed at maximum shear stresses of 10\xc2\xa0Pa or higher. Cells lost motility for maximum shear stresses higher than 15\xc2\xa0Pa, and more than 80% of the cells were deformed at maximum shear stresses higher than 60\xc2\xa0Pa. The estimated critical shear stress was 18\xc2\xa0Pa.CONCLUSIONS: Shear stresses higher than 18\xc2\xa0Pa should be avoided when cultivating D. salina. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In recent years measurable concentrations of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been shown in the aquatic environment as a result of increasing human consumption. Effects of five frequently used non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (diclofenac, diflunisal, ibuprofen, mefenamic acid and piroxicam in 0.1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0ml(-1) concentration) in batch cultures of cyanobacteria (Synechococcus elongatus, Microcystis aeruginosa, Cylindrospermopsis raciborskii), and eukaryotic algae (Desmodesmus communis, Haematococcus pluvialis, Cryptomonas ovata) were studied. Furthermore, the effects of the same concentrations of NSAIDs were investigated in natural algal assemblages in microcosms. According to the changes of chlorophyll-a content, unicellular cyanobacteria seemed to be more tolerant to NSAIDs than eukaryotic algae in laboratory experiments. Growth of eukaryotic algae was reduced by all drugs, the cryptomonad C.\xc2\xa0ovata was the most sensitive to NSAIDs, while the flagellated green alga H.\xc2\xa0pluvialis was more sensitive than the non-motile green alga D. communis. NSAID treatments had weaker impact in the natural assemblages dominated by cyanobacteria than in the ones dominated by eukaryotic algae, confirming the results of laboratory experiments. Diversity and number of functional groups did not change notably in cyanobacteria dominated assemblages, while they decreased significantly in eukaryotic algae dominated ones compared to controls. The results highlight that cyanobacteria (especially unicellular ones) are less sensitive to the studied, mostly hardly degradable NSAIDs, which suggest that their accumulation in water bodies may contribute to the expansion of cyanobacterial mass productions in appropriate environmental circumstances by pushing back eukaryotic algae. Thus, these contaminants require special attention during wastewater treatment and monitoring of surface waters. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"BACKGROUND: In spite of their ecological importance as primary producers and microbioeroders of marine calcium carbonate (CaCO3) substrata, endolithic phototrophs spanning both prokaryotic (the cyanobacteria) and eukaryotic algae lack established molecular resources for their facilitated survey with high throughput sequencing. Here, the development of a metabarcoding framework for the elongation factor EF-Ttu (tufA) was tested on four Illumina-sequenced marine CaCO3 microfloras for the characterization of their endolithic phototrophs, especially the abundant bioeroding Ostreobium spp. (Ulvophyceae). The framework consists of novel tufA degenerate primers and a comprehensive database enabling Operational Taxonomic Unit (OTU) identification at multiple taxonomic ranks with percent identity thresholds determined herein.RESULTS: The newly established tufA database comprises 4057 non-redundant sequences (from 1339 eukaryotic and prokaryotic phototrophs, and 2718 prokaryotic heterotrophs) including 27 classes in 10 phyla of phototrophic diversity summarized from data mining on GenBank(\xc2\xae), our barcoding of>150 clones produced from coral reef microfloras, and>300 eukaryotic phototrophs (>230 Ulvophyceae including>100 'Ostreobium' spp., and>70 Florideophyceae, Phaeophyceae and miscellaneous taxa). Illumina metabarcoding with the newly designed primers resulted in 802 robust OTUs including 618 phototrophs and 184 heterotrophs (77 and 23% of OTUs, respectively). Phototrophic OTUs belonged to 14 classes of phototrophs found in seven phyla, and represented ~98% of all reads. The phylogenetic profiles of coral reef microfloras showed few OTUs in large abundance (proportion of reads) for the Chlorophyta (Ulvophyceae, i.e. Ostreobium and Phaeophila), the Rhodophyta (Florideophyceae) and Haptophyta (Coccolithophyceae), and a large diversity (richness) of OTUs in lower abundance for the Cyanophyta (Cyanophyceae) and the Ochrophyta (the diatoms, 'Bacillariophyta'). The bioerosive 'Ostreobium' spp. represented four families in a large clade of subordinal divergence, i.e. the Ostreobidineae, and a fifth, phylogenetically remote family in the suborder Halimedineae (provisionally assigned as the 'Pseudostreobiaceae'). Together they harbor 85-95 delimited cryptic species of endolithic microsiphons.CONCLUSIONS: The novel degenerate primers allowed for amplification of endolithic phototrophs across a wide phylogenetic breadth as well as their recovery in very large proportions of reads (overall 98%) and diversity (overall 77% of OTUs). The established companion tufA database and determined identity thresholds allow for OTU identification at multiple taxonomic ranks to facilitate the monitoring of phototrophic assemblages via metabarcoding, especially endolithic communities rich in bioeroding Ulvophyceae, such as those harboring 'Ostreobium' spp., Phaeophila spp. and associated algal diversity. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The light absorption system in eukaryotic (micro)algae includes highly sensitive photoreceptors, which change their conformation in response to different light qualities on a subsecond time scale and induce physiological and behavioral responses. Some of the light sensitive modules are already in use to engineer and design photoswitchable tools for control of cellular and physiological activities in living organisms with various degrees of complexity. Thus, identification of new light sensitive modules will not only extend the source material for the generation of optogenetic tools but also foster the development of new light-based strategies in cell signaling research. Apart from searching for new proteins with suitable light-sensitive modules, smaller variants of existing light-sensitive modules would be helpful to simplify the construction of hybrid genes and facilitate the generation of mutated and chimerized modules. Advances in genome and transcriptome sequencing as well as functional analysis of photoreceptors and their interaction partners will help to discover new light sensitive modules. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Tetracycline antibiotics have been increasingly used in medical applications and have been found in wastewater treatment plants as a result of human and industrial activities. This study investigates the combined effects of tetracycline antibiotics on the performance of an algal photo-bioreactor operated under different antibiotic concentrations in the ranges of 0.25 to 30\xc2\xa0mg/L and considers the inhibition of algal growth, carbon and nutrient removal rates, and eukaryotic and cyanobacterial algal community changes. The results indicated that increases in the concentration of tetracycline mixtures have adverse effects on the algal community and the performance of a photo-bioreactor, and the eukaryotic algae species were more sensitive to tetracycline antibiotics than were the cyanobacterial species. Cultivation tests showed that approximately 94\xc2\xa0% growth inhibition of mixed algae occurred at 30\xc2\xa0mg/L. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The assessment of the quality of carwash effluents has received scant attention as a potential source of public and environmental health hazard in South Africa as demonstrated by the lack of literature in this subject. The physicochemical quality and potential ramifications of carwash effluents on receiving waterbodies were investigated in this study. Grab effluent samples were collected from six carwash outlets in Gauteng Province of South Africa and analysed for selected physicochemical qualities including biological oxygen demand (BOD), oil and grease, total petroleum hydrocarbons-gasoline range organics (TPH-GRO), pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), total solids (TS) and total dissolved solids (TDS), electrical conductivity (EC), nutrients (nitrates, nitrites and phosphates), anionic surfactants and heavy metals (zinc [Zn], copper [Cu], lead [Pb]and chromium [Cr]). Further, the toxicity potential of the effluent samples was assessed using organisms from four trophic levels ranging from Selenastrum capricornutum (primary producer), Daphnia magna (primary consumer), Poecilia reticulata (secondary-tertiary consumer) and Vibrio fischeri (decomposer). High pollutant levels were observed in all effluents with BOD ranging from 27\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.1 to 650\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x894.9\xc2\xa0mg/l, TDS from 362\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x898.5 to 686\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x898.5\xc2\xa0mg/l, GRO-TPH from 0.01\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.0 to 7.6\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.2\xc2\xa0mg/l, DO from 0.0 to 0.1\xc2\xa0mg/l, Zn from 0.79\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.08 to 20\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.12\xc2\xa0mg/l, Cu from 0.77\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.03 to 13\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.71\xc2\xa0mg/l and oil and grease from 12\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.8 to 43\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.1\xc2\xa0mg/l. Ammonium concentrations ranged from 0.4\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.1 to 75\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x896.4\xc2\xa0mg/l; turbidity from 109\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.7 to 4000\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8929.7\xc2\xa0mg/l, anionic surfactants from 1.4\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.1 to 5.8\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.3\xc2\xa0mg/l and TPH from<0.01 to 7.6\xc2\xa0mg/l. Toxicity assessment assays resulted in 100\xc2\xa0% mortality for fish and Daphnia after 96 and 24\xc2\xa0h, respectively, and significant bioluminescence and growth reduction in V. fischeri and algae after 15\xc2\xa0min and 72\xc2\xa0h, respectively. Most of the measured physicochemical parameters were in concentrations above the Environmental Management Agency (EPA) stipulated guidelines. Additionally, the effluents demonstrated acute toxicity against all four test species. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Zooplankton communities can be strongly affected by cyanobacterial blooms, especially species of genus Daphnia, which are key-species in lake ecosystems. Here, we explored the effect of microcystin/nonmicrocystin (MC/non-MC) producing cyanobacteria in the diet of experimental Daphnia galeata populations composed of eight genotypes. We used D. galeata clones hatched from ephippia 10 to 60 years old, which were first tested in monocultures, and then exposed for 10 weeks as mixed populations to three food treatments consisting of green algae combined with cyanobacteria able/unable of producing MC. We measured the expression of nine genes potentially involved in Daphnia acclimation to cyanobacteria: six protease genes, one ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme gene, and two rRNA genes, and then we tracked the dynamics of the genotypes in mixed populations. The expression pattern of one protease and the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme genes was positively correlated with the increased fitness of competing clones in the presence of cyanobacteria, suggesting physiological plasticity. The genotype dynamics in mixed populations was only partially related to the growth rates of clones in monocultures and varied strongly with the food. Our results revealed strong intraspecific differences in the tolerance of D. galeata clones to MC/non-MC-producing cyanobacteria in their diet, suggesting microevolutionary effects. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microbial mats are abundant in many alpine and polar aquatic ecosystems. With warmer temperatures, new hydrologic pathways are developing in these regions and increasing dissolved nutrient fluxes. In the McMurdo Dry Valleys, thermokarsting may release both nutrients and sediment, and has the potential to influence mats in glacial meltwater streams. To test the role of nutrient inputs on community structure, we created nutrient diffusing substrata (NDS) with agar enriched in N, P and N + P, with controls, and deployed them into two Dry Valley streams. We found N amendments (N and N + P) to have greater chlorophyll-a concentrations, total algal biovolume, more fine filamentous cyanobacteria and a higher proportion of live diatoms than other treatments. Furthermore, N treatments were substantially elevated in Bacteroidetes and the small diatom, Fistulifera pelliculosa. On the other hand, species richness was almost double in P and N + P treatments over others, and coccoid green algae and Proteobacteria were more abundant in both streams. Collectively, these data suggest that nutrients have the potential to stimulate growth and alter community structure in glacial meltwater stream microbial mats, and the recent erosion of permafrost and accelerated glacial melt will likely impact resident biota in polar lotic systems here and elsewhere. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The bacterial and microeukaryotic biodiversity were studied using pyrosequencing analysis on a 454 GS FLX+ platform of partial SSU rRNA genes in terrestrial and aquatic habitats of the S\xc3\xb8r Rondane Mountains, including soils, on mosses, endolithic communities, cryoconite holes and supraglacial and subglacial meltwater lenses. This inventory was complemented with Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis targeting Chlorophyta and Cyanobacteria. OTUs belonging to the Rotifera, Chlorophyta, Tardigrada, Ciliophora, Cercozoa, Fungi, Bryophyta, Bacillariophyta, Collembola and Nematoda were present with a relative abundance of at least 0.1% in the eukaryotic communities. Cyanobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Acidobacteria, FBP and Actinobacteria were the most abundant bacterial phyla. Multivariate analyses of the pyrosequencing data revealed a general lack of differentiation of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes according to habitat type. However, the bacterial community structure in the aquatic habitats was dominated by the filamentous cyanobacteria Leptolyngbya and appeared to be significantly different compared with those in dry soils, on mosses, and in endolithic habitats. A striking feature in all datasets was the detection of a relatively large amount of sequences new to science, which underscores the need for additional biodiversity assessments in Antarctic inland locations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The effects of algal inoculation on chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total nitrogen (TN) removal, and indigenous bacterial dynamics were investigated in municipal wastewater. Experiments were conducted with municipal wastewater inoculated with either Chlorella vulgaris AG10032, Selenastrum gracile UTEX 325, or Scenedesmus quadricauda AG 10308. C. vulgaris and S. gracile as fast growing algae in municipal wastewater, performed high COD and TN removal in contrast to Sc. quadricauda. The indigenous bacterial dynamics revealed by 16S rRNA gene amplification showed different bacterial shifts in response to different algal inoculations. The dominant bacterial genera of either algal case were characterized as heterotrophic nitrifying bacteria. Our results suggest that selection of indigenous bacteria that symbiotically interact with algal species is important for better performance of wastewater treatment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'High-throughput diversity amplicon sequencing of marine microbial samples has revealed that members of the Mamiellophyceae lineage are successful phytoplankton in many oceanic habitats. Indeed, these eukaryotic green algae can dominate the picoplanktonic biomass, however, given the broad expanses of the oceans, their geographical distributions and the phylogenetic diversity of some groups remain poorly characterized. As these algae play a foundational role in marine food webs, it is crucial to assess their global distribution in order to better predict potential changes in abundance and community structure. To this end, we analyzed the V9-18S small subunit rDNA sequences deposited from the Tara Oceans expedition to evaluate the diversity and biogeography of these phytoplankton. Our results show that the phylogenetic composition of Mamiellophyceae communities is in part determined by geographical provenance, and do not appear to be influenced - in the samples recovered - by water depth, at least at the resolution possible with the V9-18S. Phylogenetic classification of Mamiellophyceae sequences revealed that the Dolichomastigales order encompasses more sequence diversity than other orders in this lineage. These results indicate that a large fraction of the Mamiellophyceae diversity has been hitherto overlooked, likely because of a combination of size fraction, sequencing and geographical limitations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The Ca(2+)-binding protein centrin binds to a hydrophobic motif (W(1)xxL(4)xxxL(8)) included in the sequence of several cellular targets: XPC (xeroderma pigmentosum group C protein), Sfi1 (suppressor of fermentation-induced loss of stress resistance protein1), and Sac3 [the central component of the transcription and mRNA export (TREX-2) complex]. However, centrin binding occurs in a reversed orientation (L(8)xxxL(4)xxW(1)) for Sfi1 and Sac3 compared with XPC. Because D-peptides have been investigated for future therapeutic use, we analyzed their centrin-binding properties. Their affinity for centrin was measured using isothermal titration calorimetry. The chirality change in the target-derived peptides affected their ability to bind centrin in a specific manner depending on the sequence orientation of the centrin-binding motif. In contrast to L-XPC-P10, D-XPC-P10 bound C-HsCen1 in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner and to a lesser extent. D-XPC-P10 exhibited a reduced affinity for C-HsCen1 (Ka=0.064 \xc3\x97 10(6) M(-1)) by a factor of 2000 compared with L-XPC-P10 (Ka=132 \xc3\x97 10(6) M(-1)). D-peptides have a lower affinity than L-peptides for centrin, and the strength of this affinity depends on the sequence orientation of the target-derived peptides. The residual affinity observed for D-XPC suggests that the use of d-peptides represents a promising strategy for inhibiting centrin binding to its targets. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Contaminant effects on species are generally assessed with single-species bioassays. As a consequence, interactions between species that occur in ecosystems are not taken into account. To investigate the effects of contaminants on interacting species dynamics, our study describes the functioning of a 2-L laboratory microcosm with two species, the duckweed Lemna minor and the microalgae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, exposed to cadmium contamination. We modelled the dynamics of both species and their interactions using a mechanistic model based on coupled ordinary differential equations. The main processes occurring in this two-species microcosm were thus formalised, including growth and settling of algae, growth of duckweeds, interspecific competition between the two species and cadmium effects. We estimated model parameters by Bayesian inference, using simultaneously all the data issued from multiple laboratory experiments specifically conducted for this study. Cadmium concentrations ranged between 0 and 50 \xce\xbcg\xc2\xb7L(-1). For all parameters of our model, we obtained biologically realistic values and reasonable uncertainties. Only duckweed dynamics was affected by interspecific competition, while algal dynamics was not impaired. Growth rate of both species decreased with cadmium concentration, as well as competition intensity showing that the interspecific competition pressure on duckweed decreased with cadmium concentration. This innovative combination of mechanistic modelling and model-guided experiments was successful to understand the algae-duckweed microcosm functioning without and with contaminant. This approach appears promising to include interactions between species when studying contaminant effects on ecosystem functioning. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study investigated and compared reaction kinetics, product characterization, and toxicity variation of triclosan (TCS) removal mediated by soybean peroxidase (SBP), a recognized potential peroxidase for removing phenolic pollutants, and the commonly used horseradish peroxidase (HRP) with the goal of assessing the technical feasibility of SBP-catalyzed removal of TCS. Reaction conditions such as pH, H2O2 concentration and enzyme dosage were found to have a strong influence on the removal efficiency of TCS. SBP can retain its catalytic ability to remove TCS over broad ranges of pH and H2O2 concentration, while the optimal pH and H2O2 concentration were 7.0 and 8\xce\xbcM, respectively. 98% TCS was removed with only 0.1UmL(-1) SBP in 30min reaction time, while an HRP dose of 0.3UmL(-1) was required to achieve the similar conversion. The catalytic performance of SBP towards TCS was more efficient than that of HRP, which can be explained by catalytic rate constant (KCAT) and catalytic efficiency (KCAT/KM) for the two enzymes. MS analysis in combination with quantum chemistry computation showed that the polymerization products were generated via CC and CO coupling pathways. The polymers were proved to be nontoxic through growth inhibition of green alga (Scenedesmus obliquus). Taking into consideration of the enzymatic treatment cost, SBP may be a better alternative to HRP upon the removal and detoxification of TCS in water/wastewater treatment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Chlorarachniophyte algae have complex plastids acquired by the uptake of a green algal endosymbiont, and this event is called secondary endosymbiosis. Interestingly, the plastids possess a relict endosymbiont nucleus, referred to as the nucleomorph, in the intermembrane space, and the nucleomorphs contain an extremely reduced and compacted genome in comparison with green algal nuclear genomes. Therefore, chlorarachniophyte plastids consist of two endosymbiotically derived genomes, i.e., the plastid and nucleomorph genomes. To date, complete nucleomorph genomes have been sequenced in four different species, whereas plastid genomes have been reported in only two species in chlorarachniophytes. To gain further insight into the evolution of endosymbiotic genomes in chlorarachniophytes, we newly sequenced the plastid genomes of three species, Gymnochlora stellata, Lotharella vacuolata, and Partenskyella glossopodia. Our findings reveal that chlorarachniophyte plastid genomes are highly conserved in size, gene content, and gene order among species, but their nucleomorph genomes are divergent in such features. Accordingly, the current architecture of the plastid genomes of chlorarachniophytes evolved in a common ancestor, and changed very little during their subsequent diversification. Furthermore, our phylogenetic analyses using multiple plastid genes suggest that chlorarachniophyte plastids are derived from a green algal lineage that is closely related to Bryopsidales in the Ulvophyceae group. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"This study investigated the effects of gamma radiation (3-10 kGy) upon the inactivation of murine norovirus-1 (MNV-1), a human norovirus (NoV) surrogate. The edible green and brown algae, fulvescens (Capsosiphon fulvescens) and fusiforme (Hizikia fusiforme), respectively, were experimentally contaminated with 5-6 log10 plaque forming units (PFU)/ml MNV-1. The titer of MNV-1 significantly decreased (P<0.05) as the dose of gamma radiation increased. MNV-1 titer decreased to 1.16-2.46 log10 PFU/ml in fulvescens and 0.37-2.21 log10 PFU/ml in fusiforme following irradiation. However, all Hunters ('L', 'a' and 'b') and sensory qualities (appearance, color, flavor, texture and overall acceptability) were not significantly (P>0.05) different in both algae following gamma radiation. The Weibull model was used to generate non-linear survival curves and to calculate Gd values for 1, 2, and 3 log10 reductions of MNV-1 in fulvescens (R(2) = 0.992) and fusiforme (R(2) = 0.988). A Gd value of 1 (90% reduction) corresponded to 2.89 and 3.93 kGy in fulvescens and fusiforme, respectively. A Gd value of 2 (99% reduction) corresponded to 7.75 and 9.02 kGy in fulvescens and fusiforme, respectively, while a Gd value of 3 (99.9% reduction) in fulvescens and fusiforme corresponded with 13.83 and 14.93 kGy of gamma radiation, respectively. A combination of gamma radiation at medium doses and other treatments could be used to inactivate \xe2\x89\xa5 3 log10 PFU/ml NoV in seaweed. The inactivation kinetics due to gamma radiation against NoV in these algae might provide basic information for use in seaweed processing and distribution. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'A large proportion of mutants with altered pigment features have been obtained via exposure to heavy-ion beams, a technique that is efficient for trait improvement in the breeding of plants and algae. However, little is known about the underlying mechanisms by which the photosynthetic pigments are altered by heavy-ion irradiation. In our study, the photosynthetic characteristics of progenies from carbon-ion irradiated Selenastrum capricornutum were investigated. Five progenies deficient in chlorophyll a were isolated after carbon-ion exposure. Photosynthetic characteristics, photoprotection capacity and gene expression of the light-harvesting complex in these progenies were further characterized by the measurement of chlorophyll fluorescence parameters (Fv/Fm, \xd0\xa4PSII, NPQ, ETR), the de-epoxidation state of the xanthophyll cycle, the amount of lutein and quantitative real-time PCR. High maximum quantum yield of photosystem II at day 10 and high thermal dissipation ability were observed in progenies #23 and #37 under normal culture condition. Progenies #18, #19 and #20 showed stronger resistance against high levels of light steps than the control group (612-1077 \xce\xbcmol photons m -2 s -1, p<0.05). The progenies #20 and #23 exhibited strong photoprotection by thermal dissipation and quenching of 3Chl* after 24 h of high light treatment. The mRNA levels of Lhcb5, Lhcbm5 and Lhcbm1 of the light-harvesting complex revealed markedly differential expression in the five progenies irradiated by carbon-ion beams. This work indicates that photosynthetic efficiency, photoprotection ability and the expression of light-harvesting antennae in unicellular green algae can be markedly influenced by irradiation. To our knowledge, this is the first report on changes in the photosynthetic pigments of green algae after treatment with carbon-ion beams. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Risk assessment of exposure to radionuclides and radiation does not usually take into account the role of species interactions. We investigated how the transfer of carbon between a primary producer, Raphidocelis subcapitata, and a consumer, Daphnia magna, was affected by acute exposure to gamma radiation. In addition to unexposed controls, different treatments were used where: a) only D. magna (Z treatment); b) only R. subcapitata (P treatment) and c) both D. magna and R. subcapitata (ZP treatment) were exposed to one of three acute doses of gamma radiation (5, 50 and 100\xc2\xa0Gy). We then compared differences among treatments for three endpoints: incorporation of carbon by D. magna, D. magna growth and R. subcapitata densities. Carbon incorporation was affected by which combination of species was irradiated and by the radiation dose. Densities of R. subcapitata at the end of the experiment were also affected by which species had been exposed to radiation. Carbon incorporation by D. magna was significantly lower in the Z treatment, indicating reduced grazing, an effect stronger with higher radiation doses, possibly due to direct effects of gamma radiation. Top-down indirect effects of this reduced grazing were also seen as R. subcapitata densities increased in the Z treatment due to decreased herbivory. The opposite pattern was observed in the P treatment where only R. subcapitata was exposed to gamma radiation, while the ZP treatment showed intermediate results for both endpoints. In the P treatments, carbon incorporation by D. magna was significantly higher than in the other treatments, suggesting a higher grazing pressure. This, together with direct effects of gamma radiation on R. subcapitata, probably significantly decreased phytoplankton densities in the P treatment. Our results highlight the importance of taking into account the role of species interactions when assessing the effects of exposure to gamma radiation in aquatic ecosystems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Most lichens in general, and their phycobionts in particular, are desiccation tolerant, but their mechanisms of desiccation tolerance (DT) remain obscure. The physiological responses and cell wall features of two putatively contrasting lichen-forming microalgae, Trebouxia sp. TR9 (TR9), isolated from Ramalina farinacea (adapted to frequent desiccation-rehydration cycles), and Coccomyxa solorina-saccatae (Csol), obtained from Solorina saccata (growing in usually humid limestone crevices, subjected to seasonal dry periods) was characterized. Microalgal cultures were desiccated under 25%-30% RH and then rehydrated. Under these conditions, RWC and \xcf\x88w decreased faster and simultaneously during dehydration in Csol, whereas TR9 maintained its \xcf\x88w until 70% RWC. The metabolic profile indicated that polyols played a key role in DT of both microalgae. However, TR9 constitutively accumulated higher amounts of polyols, whereas Csol induced the polyol synthesis under desiccation-rehydration. Csol also accumulated ascorbic acid, while TR9 synthesized protective raffinose-family oligosaccharides (RFOs) and increased its content of phenolics. Additionally, TR9 exhibited thicker and qualitatively different cell wall and extracellular polymeric layer compared with Csol, indicating higher water retention capability. The findings were consistent with the notion that lichen microalgae would have evolved distinct strategies to cope with desiccation-rehydration stress in correspondence with the water regime of their respective habitats. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In northeastern Brazil, stabilization ponds are very suitable for wastewater treatment because of the relative great land availability and environmental conditions (e.g., high temperature) favorable for microorganism optimal development. However, blooms of potentially toxic cyanobacteria may affect the use of these treatment ponds due to resulting effluent poor quality. The objective of this study was to evaluate the dynamics of phytoplankton communities and the occurrence of cyanobacteria in a maturation pond located immediately after a series of two ponds. Temperature, dissolved oxygen, pH, BOD, N, and P were measured during a period of four months when samples were collected from the surface and the bottom of 7 sampling points distributed inside the pond. The phytoplankton of collected samples was also identified and classified using a conventional optical microscopy. Analysis of variance and Tukey test were used to evaluate the results. The three phytoplankton divisions found (Cyanophyta, Chlorophyta, and Euglenophyta) did not change considerably through surface and bottom. However, they changed greatly over the sampled months; great dominance of Cyanophyta was found at April and October, while Chlorophyta dominated the lagoon in September. Low superficial organic loads (between 78 and 109 kg BOD.ha-1.d-1) and N:P \xe2\x89\xa4 10 were the determinant factors that favored the predominance of Cyanophyta. The presence of two potentially toxic species of Cyanophyta, Oscillatoria sp. and Microcystis aeruginosa, indicates that caution is required when considering the final destination of treated effluent and suggests a need to assess the risks and benefits associated with the use of the treatment technology. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Chloroplast sequence data are widely used to infer phylogenies of plants and algae. With the increasing availability of complete chloroplast genome sequences, the opportunity arises to resolve ancient divergences that were heretofore problematic. On the flip side, properly analyzing large multi-gene data sets can be a major challenge, as these data may be riddled with systematic biases and conflicting signals. Our study contributes new data from nine complete and four fragmentary chloroplast genome sequences across the green algal order Sphaeropleales. Our phylogenetic analyses of a 56-gene data set show that analyzing these data on a nucleotide level yields a well-supported phylogeny - yet one that is quite different from a corresponding amino acid analysis. We offer some possible explanations for this conflict through a range of analyses of modified data sets. In addition, we characterize the newly sequenced genomes in terms of their structure and content, thereby further contributing to the knowledge of chloroplast genome evolution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"This study evaluated the feasibility of using the Ribulose Bisphosphate Carboxylase Large subunit gene (rbcL) and the Internal Transcribed Spacers 1 and 2 of the nuclear rDNA (nuITS1 and nuITS2) markers for identifying a very diverse, albeit poorly known group, of green microalgae from neotropical inland waters. Fifty-one freshwater green microalgae strains isolated from Brazil, the largest biodiversity reservoir in the neotropics, were submitted to DNA barcoding. Currently available universal primers for ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region amplification were sufficient to successfully amplify and sequence 47 (92%) of the samples. On the other hand, new sets of primers had to be designed for rbcL, which allowed 96% of the samples to be sequenced. Thirty-five percent of the strains could be unambiguously identified to the species level based either on nuITS1 or nuITS2 sequences' using barcode gap calculations. nuITS2 Compensatory Base Change (CBC) and ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 region phylogenetic analysis, together with morphological inspection, confirmed the identification accuracy. In contrast, only 6% of the strains could be assigned to the correct species based solely on rbcL sequences. In conclusion, the data presented here indicates that either nuITS1 or nuITS2 are useful markers for DNA barcoding of freshwater green microalgae, with advantage for nuITS2 due to the larger availability of analytical tools and reference barcodes deposited at databases for this marker. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Knowledge of the interaction between graphene-based materials and low-molecular-weight organic acids (LOAs) is essential to understand fate and effects of graphene-based materials in the aquatic environment, but this interaction remains poorly elucidated. In this study, the effects of LOAs on the physicochemical properties of graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) in an aqueous medium and on the GNP toxicity to algae were studied. The unicellular green alga Scenedesmus obliquus was exposed to GNP suspensions in the presence of benzoic acid or gallic acid at various concentrations. The GNPs had smaller hydrodynamic sizes and the GNP suspensions were more stable and had higher or lower surface zeta potentials in the presence of LOAs than when LOAs were not present. The toxic effects in S. obliquus cultures incubated with GNP suspensions containing LOAs were related to the LOA concentration, and the presence of LOAs caused three effects: stimulation, alleviation, and synergistic inhibition. The intensities of the effects mainly correlated with the LOA concentration, the extent of agglomeration, and particle-induced oxidative stress. The results indicate that the environmental fates and toxicities of GNPs are strongly affected by the binding of GNPs to LOAs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Secondary effluent from wastewater treatment plants is suitable media for cultivating microalgae as a renewable energy source, and hydraulic retention time (HRT) control in culture is important to conduct well-planned outdoor indigenous microalgae cultivation with secondary effluent. This study revealed cultivation characteristics under various HRT by continuous 6-month experiments. In addition, effects of HRT on cultivation were determined by a mathematical model that described indigenous microalgae growth. Cultivated biomass mainly consisted of Chlorophyceae and its detritus regardless of HRT, and 5.93-14.8g/m(2)/day of biomass yield was obtained. The cultivated biomass had a stable higher heating value of 16kJ/g. Sensitivity analysis of the model suggests that HRT control had great effects on biomass yield, and 2-3days of HRT were recommended to obtain maximum biomass yield under certain weather conditions (temperature: approximately 12-25\xc2\xb0C and solar radiation: approximately 8-19MJ/m(2)/day). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Successful algal cultivation for biofuel production is one path in the transition to a renewable energy economy. The green alga Scenedesmus dimorphus is a candidate for biofuel production, but is subject to parasitism and subsequent population crash when cultivated in open ponds. From an open pond cultivating S. dimorphus for biofuel production in New Mexico, USA, an amoeboid parasite was isolated, designated as isolate FD61, and its rDNA operon sequenced. A BLAST search for nuc 18S rDNA (18S) sequence similarity identified the parasite as Paraphysoderma sedebokerense (Blastocladiomycota). Here, we examine the ultrastructure of P. sedebokerense and compare it with that of a sister taxon, Physoderma maydis. The parasite has thin-walled vegetative sporangia and thick-walled resting sporangia. Our observations indicate that amoeboid swarmers are produced in the vegetative phase, while either amoeboid swarmers or zoospores are the product of meiosis in resting sporangia. Meiosis is confirmed by the presence of synaptonemal complexes in resting sporangia nuclei. Notably, P. sedebokerense has a Golgi apparatus with stacked cisternae, a feature reported for P. maydis, but which is absent in all other examined taxa in Blastocladiomycota. This report furthers our knowledge of the life cycle of P. sedebokerense. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'To improve the biomass yield and lipid productivity, two desert microalgae, Desmodesmus sp. S81 and G41 were induced mutagenesis by Ethylmethane sulfonate (EMS), and obtained two potential mutants, Desmodesmus sp. S5 and G3 from the mutagenic clones for their greatly promoted biomass and lipid production. The results showed that the biomass yield, lipid content and lipid productivity of the mutant strains S5 and G3 were 778.10mg\xc2\xb7L(-1), 48.41% and 19.83mg\xc2\xb7L(-1)\xc2\xb7d(-1), 739.52mg\xc2\xb7L(-1), 46.01%, and 17.92mg\xc2\xb7L(-1)\xc2\xb7d(-1), respectively, which presented the increment of 45.50%, 8.00% and 74.24%, 20.67%, 10.35% and 55.77% than those of S81 and G41. Comparing with the wild strains, the mutants showed reduced PUFAs and glycol lipids, elevated MUFAs and neutral lipids contents, which were appropriate for biodiesel production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Recently pharmaceuticals have become significant environmental pollutants in aquatic ecosystems, that could affect primary producers such as microalgae. Here we analyzed the effect of pharmaceuticals on the photosynthesis of microalgae commonly found in freshwater-two species of Chlorophyceae and a member of the Eustigmatophyceae, via PAM fluorometry. As pharmaceuticals, three medicines often consumed in households were chosen: (i) fluoxetine, an antidepressant, (ii) propranolol, a \xce\xb2-blocker and (iii) ibuprofen, an anti-inflammatory and analgesic medicine. The EC50 for the quantum yield of photosystem II in phytoplankton acclimated to inorganic phosphorus (Pi)-replete and Pi-limited conditions was estimated. Acute toxicity experiments over a 5\xc2\xa0h exposure revealed that Nannochloropsis limnetica was the least sensitive to pharmaceuticals in its photosynthetic yield out of all species tested. Although the estimation of sub-lethal effects can be vital in contrast to that of LC50s, the EC50 values in all species and for all medicines were orders of magnitude higher than concentrations found in polluted surface water. Chlamydomonas reinhardtii was the most sensitive to fluoxetine (EC50 of 1.6\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)), and propranolol (EC50 of 3\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)). Acutodesmus obliquus was most sensitive to ibuprofen (EC50 of 288\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)). Additionally, the sensitivity to the pharmaceuticals changed under a Pi-limitation; the green algae became less sensitive to fluoxetine and propranolol. In contrast, Pi-limited algal species were more sensitive to ibuprofen. Our results suggest that the sensitivity of algae to pharmaceuticals is (i) highly compound- and species-specific and (ii) dependent on the cellular P status. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A hydrolysis acidification (HA)-anoxic-oxic (A/O) process was adopted to treat a petrochemical wastewater. The operation optimization was carried out firstly by a bench scale experimental reactor. Then a full scale petrochemical wastewater treatment plant (PCWWTP, 6500 m(3) h(-1)) was operated with the same parameters. The results showed that the BOD5/COD of the wastewater increased from 0.30 to 0.43 by HA. The effluent COD was 54.4 mg L(-1) for bench scale reactor and 60.9 mg L(-1) for PCWWTP when the influent COD was about 480 mg L(-1) on optimized conditions. The organics measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) reduced obviously and the total concentration of the 5 organics (1,3-dioxolane, 2-pentanone, ethylbenzene, 2-chloromethyl-1,3-dioxolane and indene) detected in the effluent was only 0.24 mg L(-1). There was no obvious toxicity of the effluent. However, low acute toxicity of the effluent could be detected by the luminescent bacteria assay, indicating the advanced treatment is needed. The clone library profiling analysis showed that the dominant bacteria in the system were Acidobacteria, Proteobacteria and Bacteriodetes. HA-A/O process is suitable for the petrochemical wastewater treatment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Mildew resistanceLocusO(MLO) proteins are polytopic integral membrane proteins that have long been considered as plant-specific and being primarily involved in plant-powdery mildew interactions. However, research in the past decade has revealed that MLO proteins diverged into a family with several clades whose members are associated with different physiological processes. We provide a largely increased dataset of MLO amino acid sequences, comprising nearly all major land plant lineages. Based on this comprehensive dataset, we defined seven phylogenetic clades and reconstructed the likely evolution of the MLO family in embryophytes. We further identified several MLO peptide motifs that are either conserved in all MLO proteins or confined to one or several clades, supporting the notion that clade-specific diversification of MLO functions is associated with particular sequence motifs. In baker's yeast, some of these motifs are functionally linked to transmembrane (TM) transport of organic molecules and ions. In addition, we attempted to define the evolutionary origin of the MLO family and found that MLO-like proteins with highly diverse membrane topologies are present in green algae, but also in the distinctly related red algae (Rhodophyta), Amoebozoa, and Chromalveolata. Finally, we discovered several instances of putative fusion events between MLO proteins and different kinds of proteins. Such Rosetta stone-type hybrid proteins might be instructive for future analysis of potential MLO functions. Our findings suggest that MLO is an ancient protein that possibly evolved in unicellular photosynthetic eukaryotes, and consolidated in land plants with a conserved topology, comprising seven TM domains and an intrinsically unstructured C-terminus. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'In both eukaryotes and prokaryotes, fatty acid synthases are responsible for the biosynthesis of fatty acids in an iterative process, extending the fatty acid by two carbon units every cycle. Thus, odd numbered fatty acids are rarely found in nature. We tested whether representatives of diverse microbial phyla have the ability to incorporate odd-chain fatty acids as substrates for their fatty acid synthases and their downstream enzymes. We fed various odd and short chain fatty acids to the bacterium Escherichia coli, cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, green microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii and diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana. Major differences were observed, specifically in the ability among species to incorporate and elongate short chain fatty acids. We demonstrate that E. coli, C. reinhardtii, and T. pseudonana can produce longer fatty acid products from short chain precursors (C3 and C5), while Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803 lacks this ability. However, Synechocystis can incorporate and elongate longer chain fatty acids due to acyl-acyl carrier protein synthetase (AasS) activity, and knockout of this protein eliminates the ability to incorporate these fatty acids. In addition, expression of a characterized AasS from Vibrio harveyii confers a similar capability to E. coli. The ability to desaturate exogenously added fatty acids was only observed in Synechocystis and C. reinhardtii. We further probed fatty acid metabolism of these organisms by feeding desaturase inhibitors to test the specificity of long-chain fatty acid desaturases. In particular, supplementation with thia fatty acids can alter fatty acid profiles based on the location of the sulfur in the chain. We show that coupling sensitive gas chromatography mass spectrometry to supplementation of unnatural fatty acids can reveal major differences between fatty acid metabolism in various organisms. Often unnatural fatty acids have antibacterial or even therapeutic properties. Feeding of short precursors now gives us easy access to these extended molecules. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Microalgae-based water treatment technologies have been used in recent years to treat different water effluents, but their effectiveness for removing pesticides from agricultural run-off has not yet been addressed. This paper assesses the effect of microalgae in pesticide removal, as well as the influence of different operation strategies (continuous vs batch feeding). The following pesticides were studied: mecoprop, atrazine, simazine, diazinone, alachlor, chlorfenvinphos, lindane, malathion, pentachlorobenzene, chlorpyrifos, endosulfan and clofibric acid (tracer). 2L batch reactors and 5L continuous reactors were spiked to 10 \xce\xbcg L(-1) of each pesticide. Additionally, three different hydraulic retention times (HRTs) were assessed (2, 4 and 8 days) in the continuous feeding reactors. The batch-feeding experiments demonstrated that the presence of microalgae increased the efficiency of lindane, alachlor and chlorpyrifos by 50%. The continuous feeding reactors had higher removal efficiencies than the batch reactors for pentachlorobenzene, chlorpyrifos and lindane. Whilst longer HRTs increased the technology's effectiveness, a low HRT of 2 days was capable of removing malathion, pentachlorobenzene, chlorpyrifos, and endosulfan by up to 70%. This study suggests that microalgae-based treatment technologies can be an effective alternative for removing pesticides from agricultural run-off. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b"We report on common and strain-specific responses to nitrogen (N) starvation recorded in four closely related symbiotic Desmodesmus strains from taxonomically very distant animals (hydroids, a sponge and a polychaete) dwelling in the White Sea. A number of common for the studied strains and free-living microalgae as well as some specific patterns of acclimation to the N starvation were documented. The common responses included a slowdown of cell division, a reduction of photosynthetic apparatus and a vast expansion of storage subcompartments of the cell. Although these responses were qualitatively similar to those known in free-living chlorophytes, in the studied strains they occurred in a strain-specific manner. The specific N-starvation responses comprised formation of chloroplast envelope membrane twirls, thinning of the appressed thylakoid membranes and a loss of the luminal depositions and channeling of the fixed carbon to cell wall polysaccharide layer. Desmodesmus sp. from a hydroid featured a unique, among the studied strains, capability of 'emergency' degradation of Rubisco, apparently to salvage the N contained in this protein. The obtained results are discussed in view of the remarkable physiological plasticity of the symbiotic Desmodesmus spp. and their survival under the harsh conditions of the subarctic sea habitat. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Microalgae need a variety of nutrients for optimal growth and health. However, this rarely occurs in nature, and if nutrient proportions vary, biochemical changes can occur in phytoplankton community. This may result in modifications of zooplankton food quality, affecting aquatic food chains. Our aim was to investigate the toxicity of copper (Cu) to Selenastrum gracile, a common freshwater Chlorophyceae, at different physiological status induced by varying phosphorus (P) concentration in culture medium. Phosphorus was investigated at 2.3\xc3\x9710(-4), 1.1\xc3\x9710(-4), 2.3\xc3\x9710(-5), 4.6\xc3\x9710(-6) and 2.3\xc3\x9710(-6) mol L(-1) and Cu at six concentrations, ranging from 6.9\xc3\x9710(-9) mol L(-1) to 1.0\xc3\x9710(-7) mol L(-1) free Cu(2+) ions. To guarantee the cells would be in a physiological status that reflected the external P concentration, they were previously acclimated up to constant growth rate at each P concentration. Phosphorus acclimated cells were then exposed to Cu and toxicity was evaluated through population density, growth rates and chlorophyll a content. Free Cu(2+) ions concentrations were calculated through the chemical equilibrium model MINEQL(+). The results showed that higher Cu toxicity was obtained in P-limited than in P-replete cells, and that chlorophyll a/cell was higher in P-limited cells and excess Cu than in P-replete cells. This confirms the importance of microalgae nutritional status to withstand the negative effects of the trace metal. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Reducing membrane fouling caused by seawater algal bloom is a challenge for regions of the world where most of their freshwater is produced by seawater desalination. This study aims to compare ultrafiltration (UF) fouling potential of three ubiquitous marine algal species cultures (i.e., Skeletonema costatum-SKC, Tetraselmis sp.-TET, and Hymenomonas sp.-HYM) sampled at different phases of growth. Results showed that flux reduction and irreversible fouling were more severe during the decline phase as compared to the exponential phase, for all species. SKC and TET were responsible for substantial irreversible fouling but their impact was significantly lower than HYM. The development of a transparent gel layer surrounding the cell during the HYM growth and accumulating in water is certainly responsible for the more severe observed fouling. Chemical backwash with a standard chlorine solution did not recover any membrane permeability. For TET and HYM, the Hydraulically Irreversible Fouling Index (HIFI) was correlated to their biopolymer content but this correlation is specific for each species. Solution pre-filtration through a 1.2 \xce\xbcm membrane proved that cells and particulate algal organic matter (p-AOM) considerably contribute to fouling, especially for HYM for which the HIFI was reduced by a factor of 82.3. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The fluoropolymer manufacturing industry is moving to alternative polymerization processing aid technologies with more favorable toxicological and environmental profiles as part of a commitment to curtail the use of long-chain perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs). To facilitate the environmental product stewardship assessment and premanufacture notification (PMN) process for a candidate replacement chemical, we conducted acute and chronic aquatic toxicity tests to evaluate the toxicity of ammonium 2,3,3,3-tetrafluoro-2-(heptafluoropropoxy)-propanoate (C6HF11O3.H3N) or the acid form of the substance to the cladoceran, Daphnia magna, the green alga, Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata, and a number of freshwater fish species including the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, In addition, testing with the common carp, Cyprinus carpio, was conducted to determine the bioconcentration potential of the acid form of the compound. Based on the relevant criteria in current regulatory frameworks, the results of the aquatic toxicity and bioconcentration studies indicate the substance is of low concern for aquatic hazard and bioconcentration in aquatic organisms. Evaluation of environmental monitoring data in conjunction with the predicted no effect concentration (PNEC) based on the available data suggest low risk to aquatic organisms. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Lumostatic operation was applied for efficient astaxanthin production in autotrophic Haematococcus lacustris cultures using 0.4-L bubble column photobioreactors. The lumostatic operation in this study was performed with three different specific light uptake rates (q(e)) based on cell concentration, cell projection area, and fresh weight as one-, two- and three-dimensional characteristics values, respectively. The q(e) value from the cell concentration (q(e1D)) obtained was 13.5 \xc3\x97 10\xe2\x81\xbb\xe2\x81\xb8 \xce\xbcE cell\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9 s\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9, and the maximum astaxanthin concentration was increased to 150 % compared to that of a control with constant light intensity. The other optimum q e values by cell projection area (q(e2D)) and fresh weight (q( e3D)) were determined to be 195 \xce\xbcE m\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb2 s\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9 and 10.5 \xce\xbcE g\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9 s\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9 for astaxanthin production, respectively. The maximum astaxanthin production from the lumostatic cultures using the parameters controlled by cell projection area (2D) and fresh weight (3D) also increased by 36 and 22% over that of the controls, respectively. When comparing the optimal q e values among the three different types, the lumostatic cultures using q(e) based on fresh weight showed the highest astaxanthin productivity (22.8 mg L\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9 day\xe2\x81\xbb\xc2\xb9), which was a higher level than previously reported. The lumostatic operations reported here demonstrated that more efficient and effective astaxanthin production was obtained by H. lacustris than providing a constant light intensity, regardless of which parameter is used to calculate the specific light uptake rate. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The production cost of biodiesel from microalgae is still not competitive, compared with that of petroleum fuels. The genetic improvement of microalgal strains to increase triacylglycerol (TAG) accumulation is one way to reduce production costs. One of the most promising approaches is the isolation of starch-deficient mutants, which have been reported to successfully increase TAG yields. To date, such a stable mutant is not available in an oleaginous marine microalga, despite several advantages of using marine species for biodiesel production. Algae in the genus Dunaliella are known to tolerate high salt concentration and other environmental stresses. In addition, the cultivation processes for large-scale outdoor commercialization have been well established for this genus. In this study, Dunaliella tertiolecta was used to screen for starch-deficient mutants, using an iodine vapor-staining method. Four out of 20,016 UV-mutagenized strains showed a substantial reduction of starch content. A significantly higher TAG content, up to 3-fold of the wild-type level, was observed in three of the mutants upon induction by nitrogen depletion. The carotenoid production and growth characteristics of these mutants, under both normal and oxidative stress conditions, were not compromised, suggesting that these processes are not necessarily affected by starch deficiency. The results from this work open up new possibilities for exploring Dunaliella for biodiesel production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Commercial production of nanoparticles (NP) has created a need for research to support regulation of nanotechnology. In the current study, microbial biofilm communities were developed in rotating annular reactors during continuous exposure to 500\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L(-1) of each nanomaterial and subjected to multimetric analyses. Scanning transmission X-ray spectromicroscopy (STXM) was used to detect and estimate the presence of the carbon nanomaterials in the biofilm communities. Microscopy observations indicated that the communities were visibly different in appearance with changes in abundance of filamentous cyanobacteria in particular. Microscale analyses indicated that fullerene (C60) did not significantly (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) impact algal, cyanobacterial or bacterial biomass. In contrast, MWCNT exposure resulted in a significant decline in algal and bacteria biomass. Interestingly, the presence of SWCNT products increased algal biomass, significantly in the case of SWCNT-COOH (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) but had no significant impact on cyanobacterial or bacterial biomass. Thymidine incorporation indicated that bacterial production was significantly reduced (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) by all nanomaterials with the exception of fullerene. Biolog assessment of carbon utilization revealed few significant effects with the exception of the utilization of carboxylic acids. PCA and ANOSIM analyses of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) results indicated that the bacterial communities exposed to fullerene were not different from the control, the MWCNT and SWNT-OH differed from the control but not each other, whereas the SWCNT and SWCNT-COOH both differed from all other treatments and were significantly different from the control (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05). Fluorescent lectin binding analyses also indicated significant (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) changes in the nature and quantities of exopolymer consistent with changes in microbial community structure during exposure to all nanomaterials. Enumeration of protozoan grazers showed declines in communities exposed to fullerene or MWCNT but a trend for increases in all SWCNT exposures. Observations indicated that at 500\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg\xc2\xa0L(-1), carbon nanomaterials significantly alter aspects of microbial community structure and function supporting the need for further evaluation of their effects in aquatic habitats. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study evaluated long-term non-sterile cultivation of freshwater green alga Neochloris oleoabundans in a 15-liter bubble column photobioreactor (BCPBR) and the effects of a membrane-based localized oxygen remover (LOR) on deoxygenation, cell growth, and lipid production of N. oleoabundans. Batch and continuous cultivations were carried out under non-sterile conditions for 53 days with no detectable protozoa or other biological contaminants, indicating successful long-term contamination-free cultivation. The results show that the BCPBR equipped with LOR (BCPBR-LOR) has enhanced deoxygenation efficiency and were able to maintain dissolved oxygen at a level of around 120% air saturation, which was 32% lower than that of the conventional BCPBR, which had no LOR. While similar biomass concentration and productivity were obtained in both systems, significantly higher lipid cell content and lipid productivity of microalgae were obtained in the latter, which was attributed to the low dO2 in culture due to enhanced deoxygenation efficiency of BCPBR-LOR. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Thousands of mitochondrial genomes have been sequenced, but there are comparatively few available mitochondrial transcriptomes. This might soon be changing. High-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) techniques have made it fast and cheap to generate massive amounts of mitochondrial transcriptomic data. Here, we explore the utility of RNA-Seq for assembling mitochondrial genomes and studying their expression patterns. Specifically, we investigate the mitochondrial transcriptomes from Polytomella non-photosynthetic green algae, which have among the smallest, most reduced mitochondrial genomes from the Archaeplastida as well as fragmented rRNA-coding regions, palindromic genes, and linear chromosomes with telomeres. Isolation of whole genomic RNA from the four known Polytomella species followed by Illumina paired-end sequencing generated enough mitochondrial-derived reads to easily recover almost-entire mitochondrial genome sequences. Read-mapping and coverage statistics also gave insights into Polytomella mitochondrial transcriptional architecture, revealing polycistronic transcripts and the expression of telomeres and palindromic genes. Ultimately, RNA-Seq is a promising, cost-effective technique for studying mitochondrial genetics, but it does have drawbacks, which are discussed. One of its greatest potentials, as shown here, is that it can be used to generate near-complete mitochondrial genome sequences, which could be particularly useful in situations where there is a lack of available mtDNA data. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We attempted to enhance the growth and total lipid production of three microalgal species, Isochrysis galbana LB987, Nannochloropsis oculata CCAP849/1, and Dunaliella salina, which are capable of accumulating high content of lipid in cells. Low nitrogen concentration under photoautotrophic conditions stimulated total lipid production, but a decreasing total lipid content and an increasing biomass were observed with increasing nitrogen concentration. Among the different carbon sources tested for heterotrophic cultivation, glucose improved the growth of all three strains. The optimal glucose concentration for growth of I. galbana LB987 and N. oculata CCAP849/1 was 0.02\xc2\xa0M, and that of D. salina was 0.05\xc2\xa0M. Enhanced growth occurred when they were cultivated under heterotrophic or mixotrophic conditions compared with photoautotrophic conditions. Meanwhile, high total lipid accumulation in cells occurred when they were cultivated under photoautotrophic or mixotrophic conditions. During mixotrophic cultivation, biomass production was not affected significantly by light intensity; however, both chlorophyll concentration and total lipid content increased dramatically with increasing light intensity up to 150\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5mol/m(2)/s. The amount and composition ratio of saturated and unsaturated fatty acids in cells were different from each other depending on both species and light intensity. The highest accumulation of total fatty acid (C16-C18) among the three strains was found from cells of N. oculata CCAP849/1, which indicates that this species can be used as a source for production of biodiesel. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Previous studies have suggested that phosphorus (P) deficiency can increase the sensitivity of microalgae to toxic trace metals, potentially due to reduced metal detoxification at low cell P quota. The existing evidence is, however, inconsistent. This study was set up to determine the combined effects of zinc (Zn) and P supplies on Zn and P bioaccumulation and growth of the green microalgae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata. Zinc toxicity was investigated in (i) a 24h growth rate assay with cells varying in initial cell P quota (0.5-1.7% P on cell dry weight) with no supplemental P during Zn exposure (Expt. 1) and in (ii) a 48h growth assay initiated with cells at the end of a 14-days steady state culture at three P addition rates (RARs) between 0.8 and 1.6day(-1) (Expt.2). The solution Zn concentrations required to reduce final cell density by 10% relative to control (EbC10) were 5-fold (Expt.1) or 2-fold (Expt.2) lower at the highest P supply than at the lowest P supply, i.e. Zn was more toxic at higher P supply, in contrast with the suggestions from previous studies. Cell P quota increased with increasing Zn in the exposure solution (Expt.2), thereby partially overcoming P deficiency under moderate Zn toxicity compared to low Zn exposure. Similarly, cell Zn increased with increasing P supply, potentially induced by Zn-P complexation or precipitation inside the cell. A dynamic growth model accounting for effects of external Zn and internal P on the specific growth rate was calibrated to all data. This model shows that the effect of solution Zn on specific growth rate (ErC50) was statistically unaffected by cell P quota. In contrast, this model predicts that the EbC10 (i.e. EC10 based on cell numbers) varies with P supply because cell P depends on external P and Zn. Moreover, scenario analysis predicts even contrasting trends of the EbC10 with increasing P supply depending on the duration of the growth assay and the P supply scenario. Our data at two experimental scenarios and the prediction under various relevant scenarios suggest a weaker effect of secondary stress factor (Zn) when nutrient deficiency (first stress factor) is prevailing. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The increasing use of oxide nanoparticles (NPs) in commercial products has intensified the potential release into the aquatic environment where algae represent the basis of the trophic chain. NP effects upon algae population growth were indeed already reported in literature, but the concurrent effects at cellular and genomic levels are still largely unexplored. Our work investigates the genotoxic (by COMET assay) and cytotoxic effects (by qualitative ROS production and cell viability) of ZnO nanoparticles toward marine microalgae Dunaliella tertiolecta. A comparison at defined population growth inhibition levels (i.e. 50% Effect Concentration, EC50, and No Observed Effect Concentration, NOEC) with SiO2 and TiO2 genotoxic effects and previously investigated cytotoxic effects (Manzo et al., 2015) was performed in order to elucidate the possible diverse mechanisms leading to algae growth inhibition. After 72h exposure, ZnO particles act firstly at the level of cell division inhibition (EC50: 2mg Zn/L) while the genotoxic action is evident only starting from 5mg Zn/L. This outcome could be ascribable mainly to the release of toxic ions from the aggregate of ZnO particle in the proximity of cell membrane. In the main, at EC50 and NOEC values for ZnO NPs showed the lowest cytotoxic and genotoxic effect with respect to TiO2 and SiO2. Based on Mutagenic Index (MI) the rank of toxicity is actually: TiO2>SiO2>ZnO with TiO2 and SiO2 that showed similar MI values at both NOEC and EC50 concentrations. The results presented herein suggest that up to TiO2 NOEC (7.5mg/L), the algae DNA repair mechanism is efficient and the DNA damage does not result in an evident algae population growth inhibition. A similar trend for SiO2, although at lower effect level with respect to TiO2, is observable. The comparison among all the tested nanomaterial toxicity patterns highlighted that the algae population growth inhibition occurred through pathways specific for each NP also related to their different physicochemical behaviors in seawater. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The Chlorodendrophyceae is a small class of green algae belonging to the core Chlorophyta, an assemblage that also comprises the Pedinophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae, Ulvophyceae and Chlorophyceae. Here we describe for the first time the chloroplast genomes of chlorodendrophycean algae (Scherffelia dubia, 137,161 bp; Tetraselmis sp. CCMP 881, 100,264 bp). Characterized by a very small single-copy (SSC) region devoid of any gene and an unusually large inverted repeat (IR), the quadripartite structures of the Scherffelia and Tetraselmis genomes are unique among all core chlorophytes examined thus far. The lack of genes in the SSC region is offset by the rich and atypical gene complement of the IR, which includes genes from the SSC and large single-copy regions of prasinophyte and streptophyte chloroplast genomes having retained an ancestral quadripartite structure. Remarkably, seven of the atypical IR-encoded genes have also been observed in the IRs of pedinophycean and trebouxiophycean chloroplast genomes, suggesting that they were already present in the IR of the common ancestor of all core chlorophytes. Considering that the relationships among the main lineages of the core Chlorophyta are still unresolved, we evaluated the impact of including the Chlorodendrophyceae in chloroplast phylogenomic analyses. The trees we inferred using data sets of 79 and 108 genes from 71 chlorophytes indicate that the Chlorodendrophyceae is a deep-diverging lineage of the core Chlorophyta, although the placement of this class relative to the Pedinophyceae remains ambiguous. Interestingly, some of our phylogenomic trees together with our comparative analysis of gene order data support the monophyly of the Trebouxiophyceae, thus offering further evidence that the previously observed affiliation between the Chlorellales and Pedinophyceae is the result of systematic errors in phylogenetic reconstruction. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The green algal phylum Chlorophyta has six diverse classes, but the phylogenetic relationship of the classes within Chlorophyta remains uncertain. In order to better understand the ancient Chlorophyta evolution, we have applied a site pattern sorting method to study compositional heterogeneity and the model fit in the green algal chloroplast genomic data. We show that the fastest-evolving sites are significantly correlated with among-site compositional heterogeneity, and these sites have a much poorer fit to the evolutionary model. Our phylogenomic analyses suggest that the class Chlorophyceae is a monophyletic group, and the classes Ulvophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae and Prasinophyceae are non-monophyletic groups. Our proposed phylogenetic tree of Chlorophyta will offer new insights to investigate ancient green algae evolution, and our analytical framework will provide a useful approach for evaluating and mitigating the potential errors of phylogenomic inferences. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Wastewater tertiary treatment by advanced oxidation processes is thought to produce a treated effluent with lower toxicity than the initial influent. Here we performed tertiary treatment of a secondary effluent collected from a Waste Water Treatment Plant via homogeneous (solar/HSO5(-)/Fe(2+)) and heterogeneous (solar/TiO2) solar advanced oxidation aiming at the assessment of their effectiveness in terms of contaminants' and toxicity abatement in a plain solar reactor. A total of 53 organic contaminants were qualitatively identified by liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry after solid phase extraction. Solar advanced oxidation totally or partially removed the major part of contaminants detected within 4.5 h. Standard toxicity tests were performed using Vibrio fischeri, Daphnia magna, Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and Brachionus calyciflorus organisms to evaluate acute and chronic toxicity in the secondary or tertiary effluents, and the EC50% was calculated. Estrogenic and genotoxic tests were carried out in an attempt to obtain an even sharper evaluation of potential hazardous effects due to micropollutants or their degradation by-products in wastewater. Genotoxic effects were not detected in effluent before or after treatment. However, we observed relevant estrogenic activity due to the high sensitivity of the HELN ER\xce\xb1 cell line. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'The operation of cell disruption is indispensable but cost much in microalgae industry. To be simplified, two different reaction mechanisms await in the cell to respond to moderated or stressed environment. The physical and chemical changes of enzyme and turgor pressure of cell in this conversion play an important role in the enhancement of biomass and metabolites. Repeated turgor pressure (based on the structure and mechanics of cell wall) and converted enzyme system (based on photosynthesis) were used to loosen cell wall and then repeated cultivation of Haematococcus pluvialis for astaxanthin extraction was proposed. There was no significant difference of extraction yield between the broken cell (94.75\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x893.13%) and non-broken cell (92.32\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x893.24%) treated by the repeated cultivation. Meanwhile, fed-batch culture according to the relationship among pH and nutrient concentration was used to enhance the biomass of Haematococcus pluvialis with the dry cell weight of 1.63\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.07\xe2\x80\x89g/L. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Recently the potential environmental hazard of photovoltaic modules together with their management as waste has attracted the attention of scientists. Particular concern is aroused by the several metals contained in photovoltaic panels whose potential release in the environment were scarcely investigated. Here, for the first time, the potential environmental hazard of panels produced in the last 30 years was investigated through the assessment of up to 18 releasable metals. Besides, the corresponding ecotoxicological effects were also evaluated. Experimental data were compared with the current European and Italian law limits for drinking water, discharge on soil and landfill inert disposal in order to understand the actual pollution load. Results showed that less than 3% of the samples respected all law limits and around 21% was not ecotoxic. By considering the technological evolutions in manufacturing, we have shown that during the years crystalline silicon panels have lower tendency to release hazardous metals with respect to thin film panels. In addition, a prediction of the amounts of lead, chromium, cadmium and nickel releasable from next photovoltaic waste was performed. The prevision up to 2050 showed high amounts of lead (30t) and cadmium (2.9t) releasable from crystalline and thin film panels respectively. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The cell growth rate and cellular lipid content of microalgae are affected by the nitrogen levels during cultivation. The growth rate and lipid content of marine microalga Tetraselmis sp. was found to increase under nitrate replete conditions, but not under deplete conditions. Thus, in order to enhance the lipid productivity of Tetraselmis sp., a two-stage culture process utilizing nitrate replete condition was applied. When the cells were cultivated in F/2 medium for five days in the first stage, the obtained lipid content and productivity were 22.4% and 26.7mgL(-1)d(-1), respectively. After second stage of cultivation for a further 36h under nitrate replete conditions with 8.82mM NaNO3, increased biomass concentration of 1.32gL(-1) and lipid content of 30.5% were obtained, with an enhanced lipid productivity of 47.3mgL(-1)d(-1). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The bioavailability of organic contaminants adsorbed to carbon nanotubes (CNTs) remains unclear, especially in complex natural freshwaters containing natural organic matter (NOM). Here, we report on the adsorption capacity (Q(0)) of five CNTs exhibiting different physicochemical properties, including a single-walled CNT (SWCNTs), multiwalled CNTs (MWCNT-15 and MWCNT-30), and functionalized MWCNTs (hydroxyl, -OH, and carboxyl, -COOH), for the model polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon phenanthrene (3.1-800 \xce\xbcg/L). The influence of phenanthrene adsorption by the CNTs on bioavailability and toxicity was investigated using the freshwater algae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata. CNTs were dispersed in algal growth media containing NOM (DOC, 8.77 mg/L; dispersed concentrations: 0.5, 1.3, 1.3, 3.3, and 6.1 mg/L for SWCNT, MWCNT-15, MWCNT-30, MWCNT-OH, and MWCNT-COOH, respectively). Adsorption isotherms of phenanthrene to the dispersed CNTs were fitted with the Dubinin-Ashtakhov model. Q(0) differed among the CNTs, increasing with increasing surface area and decreasing with surface functionalization. SWCNT and MWCNT-COOH exhibited the highest and lowest log Q(0) (8.891 and 7.636 \xce\xbcg/kg, respectively). The presence of SWCNTs reduced phenanthrene toxicity to algae (EC50; 528.4) compared to phenanthrene-only (EC50; 438.3), and the presence of MWCNTs had no significant effect on phenanthrene toxicity. However, phenanthrene adsorbed to NOM-dispersed CNTs proved to be bioavailable and contribute to exert toxicity to P. subcapitata. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The flocculating ability was an important property to microalgal harvesting, especially in secondary effluent. In this study, the flocculating ability of two microalgae, Chlorococcum sp. GD and Parachlorella kessleri TY, was evaluated after 10d of cultivation in secondary effluent. After 180min of settling, the flocculating ability of Chlorococcum sp. GD and P. kessleri TY was 84.43% and 16.23%, respectively. It was suggested that Chlorococcum sp. GD was an excellent self-flocculating microalgae. The mechanism on self-flocculating of Chlorococcum sp. GD was probably related to hydrophobic extracellular polymeric substances (EPS). Besides, compared to P. kessleri TY, the nitrogen and phosphorus removal efficiency of Chlorococcum sp. GD was high, which was up to 66.51% and 74.19%, respectively. Chlorococcum sp. GD also had high lipid content and biomass concentration. Therefore, Chlorococcum sp. GD could be regarded as a promising candidate for microalgal cultivation and harvesting in secondary effluent. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Water-soluble sulfated heteropolysaccharides were extracted from Cladophora glomerata K\xc3\xbctzing and fractionated by ion-exchange chromatography, which yielded two subfractions, F1 and F2. The crude and fractionated polysaccharides (F1 and F2) mostly consisted of carbohydrates (62.8-74.5%) with various amounts of proteins (9.00-17.3%) and sulfates (16.5-23.5%), including different levels of arabinose (41.7-54.4%), galactose (13.5-39.0%), glucose (0.80-10.6%), xylose (6.84-13.4%), and rhamnose (0.20-2.83%). Based on the size exclusion chromatography (SEC) profiles, the crude and fractions mainly contained one peak with shoulders having molecular weight (Mw) ranges of 358-1,501\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa010(3). The F1 fraction stimulated RAW264.7 cells to produce considerable amounts of nitric oxide and cytokines compared to the crude and F2 fraction. The backbone of the most potent immunostimulating fraction (F1) was \xce\xb1-(1\xe2\x86\x924)-L-arabinopyranoside with galactose and xylose residues as branches at O-2 position, and sulfates mainly at O-2 position as well. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Essential elements (K, Ca, P, S, Cl, Mn, Fe, Cu, Zn, Ni, Br, and I) and nonessential or toxic elements (Al, Ti, Si, Rb, Sr, As, Cd, Sn, and Pb) were determined by energy-dispersive polarized x-ray fluorescence spectrometry in 14 seaweeds purchased in local specialty stores in Italy and consumed by humans. The differences in elements between the algae species reached up to 2-4 orders of magnitude. Lithothamnium calcareum showed the highest levels of Ca, Al, Si, Fe, and Ti. Palmaria palmata showed the highest concentrations of K, Rb, and Cl. The highest content of S was in Chondrus crispus. Laminaria digitata contained the highest concentrations of total As, Cd, Sn, Br, and I. The highest concentration of Zn was in Chlorella pyrenoidosa. Ulva lactuca displayed the highest levels of Cu, Ni, Mn, and Pb. Iodine levels ranged from 3.4 in Chlorella pyrenoidosa to 7316 mg/kg(dry) in Laminaria digitata. The nutrimental importance of essential elements was assessed using nutritional requirements. The results showed that the consumption of algae might serve as an important source of the essential elements. Health risk due to the toxic elements present in seaweed was estimated using risk estimators. Total As, Cd, and Pb concentrations ranged from<1 to 67.6, to 7.2 and to 6.7 mg/kg(dry) respectively; therefore, their contribution to total elemental intake does not appear to pose any threat to the consumers, but the concentrations of these elements should be controlled to protect the consumer against potential adverse health risks. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Aqueous Triton X-45 (TX-45; 20 mg/L; original total organic carbon (TOC) = 14 mg/L), a representative, commercially important alkylphenol polyethoxylate, was subjected to persulfate (PS) oxidation activated with zero-valent iron (ZVI) nanoparticles. After optimization of the ZVI/PS treatment combination (1 g/L ZVI; 2.5 mM PS at pH5) in terms of pH (3-9), ZVI (0.5-5 g/L) and PS (0.5-5.0 mM) concentrations, TX-45 could be efficiently (>90%) degraded within short treatment periods (<60 min) accompanied with significant (>40%) TOC removals. The degree of PS consumption and Fe release was also followed during the experiments and a positive correlation existed between enhanced TX-45 removals and ZVI-activated PS consumption rates accompanied with a parallel Fe release. Acute toxicity tests were conducted using two different bioassays to examine the toxicological safety of the ZVI/PS oxidation system. Acute toxicity profiles significantly decreased from an original value of 66% relative inhibition to 21% and from 16% relative inhibition to non-toxic values according to Vibrio fischeri and Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata bioassays, respectively. The photobacterium V. fischeri appeared to be more sensitive to TX-45 and its degradation products than the microalgae P. subcapitata. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Web-based Interspecies Correlation Estimation (ICE) is an application developed to predict the acute toxicity of a chemical from 1 species to another taxon. Web-ICE models use the acute toxicity value for a surrogate species to predict effect values for other species, thus potentially filling in data gaps for a variety of environmental assessment purposes. Web-ICE has historically been dominated by aquatic and terrestrial animal prediction models. Web-ICE models for algal species were essentially absent and are addressed in the present study. A compilation of public and private sector-held algal toxicity data were compiled and reviewed for quality based on relevant aspects of individual studies. Interspecies correlations were constructed from the most commonly tested algal genera for a broad spectrum of chemicals. The ICE regressions were developed based on acute 72-h and 96-h endpoint values involving 1647 unique studies on 476 unique chemicals encompassing 40 genera and 70 species of green, blue-green, and diatom algae. Acceptance criteria for algal ICE models were established prior to evaluation of individual models and included a minimum sample size of 3, a statistically significant regression slope, and a slope estimation parameter \xe2\x89\xa50.65. A total of 186 ICE models were possible at the genus level, with 21 meeting quality criteria; and 264 ICE models were developed at the species level, with 32 meeting quality criteria. Algal ICE models will have broad utility in screening environmental hazard assessments, data gap filling in certain regulatory scenarios, and as supplemental information to derive species sensitivity distributions. Environ Toxicol Chem 2016;35:2368-2378. Published 2016 Wiley Periodicals Inc. on behalf of SETAC. This article is a US government work and, as such, is in the public domain in the United States of America. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Fatty acids, which are essential cell membrane constituents and fuel storage molecules, are thought to share a common evolutionary origin with polyketide toxins in eukaryotes. While fatty acids are primary metabolic products, polyketide toxins are secondary metabolites that are involved in ecologically relevant processes, such as chemical defence, and produce the adverse effects of harmful algal blooms. Selection pressures on such compounds may be different, resulting in differing evolutionary histories. Surprisingly, some studies of dinoflagellates have suggested that the same enzymes may catalyse these processes. Here we show the presence and evolutionary distinctiveness of genes encoding six key enzymes essential for fatty acid production in 13 eukaryotic lineages for which no previous sequence data were available (alveolates: dinoflagellates, Vitrella, Chromera; stramenopiles: bolidophytes, chrysophytes, pelagophytes, raphidophytes, dictyochophytes, pinguiophytes, xanthophytes; Rhizaria: chlorarachniophytes, haplosporida; euglenids) and 8 other lineages (apicomplexans, bacillariophytes, synurophytes, cryptophytes, haptophytes, chlorophyceans, prasinophytes, trebouxiophytes). The phylogeny of fatty acid synthase genes reflects the evolutionary history of the organism, indicating selection to maintain conserved functionality. In contrast, polyketide synthase gene families are highly expanded in dinoflagellates and haptophytes, suggesting relaxed constraints in their evolutionary history, while completely absent from some protist lineages. This demonstrates a vast potential for the production of bioactive polyketide compounds in some lineages of microbial eukaryotes, indicating that the evolution of these compounds may have played an important role in their ecological success. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Anaerobic digestion (AD) of microalgal biomass is one of the most energy efficient technologies to convert microalgae to biofuels. In order to improve the biogas productivity, breaking up the tough and rigid cell wall of microalgae by pretreatment is necessary. In this work, Bacillus licheniformis, a facultative anaerobic bacterial with hydrolytic and acidogenic activities, was adopted to pretreat Chlorella sp. In the established pretreatment process, pure bacterial culture (0%, 1%, 2%, 4%, 8%, v/v) were used to pretreat Chlorella sp. under anaerobic condition at 37\xc2\xb0C for 60 h. The soluble chemical oxygen demands (SCOD) content was increased by 16.4-43.4%, while volatile fatty acids (VFAs) were improved by 17.3-44.2%. Furthermore, enhancement of methane production (9.2-22.7%) was also observed in subsequent AD. The results indicated that the more dosages of bacteria were used to pretreat the microalgal biomass in the range of 1-8%, the more methane was produced. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'As emerging organic contaminants (EOCs), the ubiquitous presence of preservative parabens in water causes a serious environmental concern. Hydroxyl radical ((\xe2\x80\xa2)OH) is a strong oxidant that can degrade EOCs through photochemistry in surface water environments as well as in advanced oxidation processes (AOPs). To better understand the degradation mechanisms, kinetics, and products toxicity of the preservative parabens in aquatic environments and AOPs, the (\xe2\x80\xa2)OH-initiated degradation reactions of the four parabens were investigated systematically using a computational approach. The four studied parabens with increase of alkyl-chain length were methylparaben (MPB), ethylparaben (EPB), propylparaben (PPB), and dibutylparaben (BPB). Results showed that the four parabens can be initially attacked by (\xe2\x80\xa2)OH through (\xe2\x80\xa2)OH-addition and H-abstraction routes. The (\xe2\x80\xa2)OH-addition route was more important for the degradation of shorter alkyl-chain parabens like MPB and EPB, while the H-abstraction route was predominant for the degradation of parabens with longer alkyl-chain for example PPB and BPB. In assessing the aquatic toxicity of parabens and their degradation products using the model calculations, the products of the (\xe2\x80\xa2)OH-addition route were found to be more toxic to green algae than original parabens. Although all degradation products were less toxic to daphnia and fish than corresponding parental parabens, they could be still harmful to these aquatic organisms. Furthermore, as alkyl-chain length increased, the ecotoxicity of parabens and their degradation products was found to be also increased. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Unicellular green microalgae Haematococcus pluvialis was mutated with (60)Co-\xce\xb3 irradiation to promote growth rate and increase astaxanthin yield under high concentration of CO2 stress. The average specific growth rate of H. pluvialis mutated with 4000 Gy \xce\xb3-ray irradiation was increased by 15% compared with the original strain with air aeration. The mutant grew best with 6% CO2 (the maximum specific growth rate was 0.60/d) when it was cultured with high concentrations of CO2 (2-10%). The peak biomass productivity (0.16 g/L/d) of the mutant cultured with 6% CO2 was 82% higher than that of the mutant with air. The astaxanthin yield and lipid content of the mutant induced with 6% CO2 and high light (108 \xce\xbcmol photons m(-2) s(-1)) increased to 46.0mg/L and 45.9%, which were 2.4 and 1.3 times higher than those of the wild-type strain, respectively. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Promoter of the light-inducible protein gene (LIP) of Dunaliella was recently isolated in our laboratory. The aim of this work is to find the light-inducible motif in the Dunaliella LIP promoter and verify its regulatory motif with a Gaussia luciferase reporter gene transformed in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. 400 bp upstream to the translational start site of the Dunaliella LIP gene was gradually truncated and analyzed for the luciferase expression. Furthermore, this promoter comprising duplicated or triplicated light-responsive motifs was tested for its augmentation of light response. Two putative light-responsive motifs, GT-1 binding motif and sequences over-represented in light-repressed promoters (SORLIP) located in the 200 bp LIP promoter fragment were analyzed for their light responsibility. It is turned out that SORLIP was responsible for the light-inducible activity. With the copy number of SORLIP up to three showed stronger high light response compared with the native LIP promoter fragment. Therefore, we found a light-responsive DNA motif operating in Chlamydomonas and confirm a synthetic promoter including this motif displayed light inducibility in heterologously transformed green algae for the first time. This light-inducible expression system will be applied to various area of algal research including algal biotechnology. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Arsenic is a toxic metalloid known to generate an important oxidative stress in cells. In the present study, we focused our attention on an alga related to the genus Coccomyxa, exhibiting an extraordinary capacity to resist high concentrations of arsenite and arsenate. The integrated analysis of high-throughput transcriptomic data and non-targeted metabolomic approaches highlighted multiple levels of protection against arsenite. Indeed, Coccomyxa sp. Carn induced a set of transporters potentially preventing the accumulation of this metalloid in the cells and presented a distinct arsenic metabolism in comparison to another species more sensitive to that compound, i.e. Euglena gracilis, especially in regard to arsenic methylation. Interestingly, Coccomyxa sp. Carn was characterized by a remarkable accumulation of the strong antioxidant glutathione (GSH). Such observation could explain the apparent low oxidative stress in the intracellular compartment, as suggested by the transcriptomic analysis. In particular, the high amount of GSH in the cell could play an important role for the tolerance to arsenate, as suggested by its partial oxidation into oxidized glutathione in presence of this metalloid. Our results therefore reveal that this alga has acquired multiple and original defence mechanisms allowing the colonization of extreme ecosystems such as acid mine drainages. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"The aims of this research were to evaluate the efficacy of copper oxychloride (CuCl2.3Cu(OH)2), copper hydroxide (Cu(OH)2) and diquat (1.1'-ethylene-2.2'-bipyridyldiylium dibromide), isolated and in association with 0.1% of both copper sources, in the control of the unicellular algae Ankistrodesmus gracilis and the filamentous algae Pithophora kewesis, and to determine the acute toxicity of the tested chemicals in Hyphressobrycon eques, Pomacea canaliculata, Lemna minor and Azolla caroliniana. The efficacy was estimated by the methods of chlorophyll a and pheophytin a readings, changed into growth inhibition percentage. Both algae were exposed to the following concentrations: 0.2; 0.4; 0.8; 1.2 mg L(-1) of diquat and its association with the copper sources; and 0.1; 0.3; 0.5; 0.7; 1.0 and 1.5 mg L(-1) in the isolated applications of copper hydroxide and copper oxychloride. An untreated control was kept. The acute toxicity was estimatedby 50% lethal concentration (LC50). The copper sources were effective for A. gracilis control, at rates as high as 0.1 mg L(-1) (>95% efficacy). Isolated diquat and its association with copper hydroxide were both effective at rates as high as 0.4 mg L(-1), with 95 and 88% control efficacy, respectively. The copper oxychloride was effective at 0.2 mg L(-1), with 93% efficacy. None of the tested chemicals and associations was effective on P. kewesis control. The most sensitive non target organism to the tested chemicals was L. minor; the less sensitive was H. eques. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b"The residues of antineoplastic drugs are considered as new and emerging pollutants in aquatic environments. Recent experiments showed relatively high toxicity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), imatinib mesylate (IM), etoposide (ET) and cisplatin (CP) that are currently among most widely used antineoplastic drugs, against phytoplankton species. In this study, we investigated the toxic potential of the mixture of 5-FU\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89IM\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89ET against green alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and cyanobacterium Synechococcus leopoliensis, and the stability and sorption of these drugs to algal cells. Toxic potential of the mixture was predicted by the concepts of 'concentration addition' and 'independent action' and compared to the experimentally determined toxicity. In both test species, the measured toxicity of the mixture was at effects concentrations EC10-EC50 higher than the predicted, whereas at higher effect concentration (EC90), it was lower. In general, P. subcapitata was more sensitive than S. leopoliensis. The stability studies of the tested drugs during the experiment showed that 5-FU, IM and CP are relatively stable, whereas in the cultures exposed to ET, two transformation products with the same mass as ET but different retention time were detected. The measurements of the cell-linked concentrations of the tested compounds after 72\xc2\xa0h exposure indicated that except for CP (1.9\xc2\xa0% of the initial concentration), these drugs are not adsorbed or absorbed by algal cells. The results of this study showed that in alga and cyanobacteria exposure to the mixture of 5-FU\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89ET\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89IM, in particular at low effect concentration range, caused additive or synergistic effect on growth inhibition, and they suggest that single compound toxicity data are not sufficient for the proper toxicity prediction for aquatic primary producers. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Marine microbial communities are genetically diverse but have robust synchronized daily transcriptional patterns at the genus level that are similar across a wide variety of oceanic regions. We developed a microarray-inspired gene-centric approach to resolve transcription of closely-related but distinct strains/ecotypes in high-throughput sequence data. Applying this approach to the existing metatranscriptomics datasets collected from two different oceanic regions, we found unique and variable patterns of transcription by individual taxa within the abundant picocyanobacteria Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus, the alpha Proteobacterium Pelagibacter and the eukaryotic picophytoplankton Ostreococcus. The results demonstrate that marine microbial taxa respond differentially to variability in space and time in the ocean. These intra-genus individual transcriptional patterns underlie whole microbial community responses, and the approach developed here facilitates deeper insights into microbial population dynamics. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The plastid organelle comprises a high proportion of nucleus-encoded proteins that were acquired from different prokaryotic donors via independent horizontal gene transfers following its primary endosymbiotic origin. What forces drove the targeting of these alien proteins to the plastid remains an unresolved evolutionary question. To better understand this process we screened for suitable candidate proteins to recapitulate their prokaryote-to-eukaryote transition. Here we identify the ancient horizontal transfer of a bacterial polyphenol oxidase (PPO) gene to the nuclear genome of an early land plant ancestor and infer the possible mechanism behind the plastidial localization of the encoded enzyme. Arabidopsis plants expressing PPO versions either lacking or harbouring a plastid-targeting signal allowed examining fitness consequences associated with its subcellular localization. Markedly, a deleterious effect on plant growth was highly correlated with PPO activity only when producing the non-targeted enzyme, suggesting that selection favoured the fixation of plastid-targeted protein versions. Our results reveal a possible evolutionary mechanism of how selection against heterologous genes encoding cytosolic proteins contributed in incrementing plastid proteome complexity from non-endosymbiotic gene sources, a process that may also impact mitochondrial evolution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Most studies on the behavior and toxicity of engineered nanoparticles (NPs) have been conducted in artificial water with well-controlled conditions, which are dramatically different from natural waters with complex compositions. To better understand the fate and toxicity of NPs in the natural water environment, physicochemical transformations of four NPs (TiO2, ZnO, Ag, and carbon nanotubes (CNTs)) and their toxicities towards a unicellular green alga (Chlorella pyrenoidosa) in four fresh water and one seawater sample were investigated. Results indicated that water chemistry had profound effects on aggregation, dissolution, and algal toxicity of the NPs. The strongest homoaggregation of the NPs was associated with the highest ionic strength, but no obvious correlation was observed between the homoaggregation of NPs and pH or dissolved organic matter content of the water samples. The greatest dissolution of ZnO NPs also occurred in seawater with the highest ionic strength, while the dissolution of Ag NPs varied differently from ZnO NPs. The released Zn(2+) and especially Ag(+) mainly accounted for the algal toxicity of ZnO and Ag NPs, respectively. The NP-cell heteroagglomeration occurred generally for CNTs and Ag NPs, which contributed to the observed nanotoxicity. However, there was no significant correlation between the observed nanotoxicity and the type of NP or the water chemistry. It was thus concluded that the physicochemical transformations and algal toxicities of NPs in the natural water samples were caused by the combined effects of complex water quality parameters rather than any single influencing factor alone. These results will increase our knowledge on the fate and effects of NPs in the aquatic environment. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Environmental problems including water and air pollution, over fertilization, insufficient wastewater treatment and even ecological disaster are receiving greater attention in the technical and scientific area. In this paper, a method for water quality monitoring using living green algae (Chlorella Kessleri) with the help of the intelligent mobile lab (IMOLA) is presented. This measurement used two IMOLA systems for measurement and reference simultaneously to verify changes due to pollution inside the measurement system. The IMOLA includes light emitting diodes to stimulate photosynthesis of the living algae immobilized on a biochip containing a dissolved oxygen microsensor. A fluid system is used to transport algae culture medium in a stop and go mode; 600s ON, 300s OFF, while the oxygen concentration of the water probe is measured. When the pump stops, the increase in dissolved oxygen concentration due to photosynthesis is detected. In case of a pollutant being transported toward the algae, this can be detected by monitoring the photosynthetic activity. Monitoring pollution is shown by adding emulsion of 0,5mL of Indonesian crude palm oil and 10mL algae medium to the water probe in the biosensor. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Biocrude was produced from Tetraselmis sp. - a marine alga and Arthrospira platensis - a fresh water alga using hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) process. Considering the constraints in cultivating algae for replacing 100% petrocrude, this study evaluated the option of blending and co-processing algal biocrude with petrocrude. Biocrudes obtained from algal strains cultivated in fresh water and sea water were blended with petrocrude at 10% concentration and the characteristics were studied using FT-IR and CNS SIMDIST. True Boiling Point (TBP) distillation was carried out to assess yields and properties of distillates of blended biocrudes. Biocrudes obtained from both algae were light crudes and the blended crudes recorded distillate yields of 76-77 wt%. The yield of light naphtha fraction of biocrude blends was 29-30%; whereas the yield of diesel fraction was about 18%. This study proposes blending and co-processing of algal biocrude with petrocrude to produce drop-in biofuels. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cyclophosphamide (CP) and ifosfamide (IF) are commonly used cytostatic drugs that repress cell division by interaction with DNA. The present study investigates the ecotoxicity and genotoxicity of CP, IF, their human metabolites/transformation products (TPs) carboxy-cyclophosphamide (CPCOOH), keto-cyclophosphamide (ketoCP) and N-dechloroethyl-cyclophosphamide (NdCP) as individual compounds and as mixture. The two parent compounds (CP and IF), at concentrations up to 320\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1), were non-toxic towards the alga Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and cyanobacterium Synecococcus leopoliensis. Further ecotoxicity studies of metabolites/TPs and a mixture of parent compounds and metabolites/TPs performed in cyanobacteria S.\xc2\xa0leopoliensis, showed that only CPCOOH (EC50\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa017.1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)) was toxic. The measured toxicity (EC50\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa011.5\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)) of the mixture was lower from the toxicity predicted by concentration addition model (EC50\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa021.1\xc2\xa0mg\xc2\xa0L(-1)) indicating potentiating effects of the CPCOOH toxicity. The SOS/umuC assay with Salmonella typhimurium revealed genotoxic activity of CP, CPCOOH and the mixture in the presence of S9 metabolic activation. Only CPCOOH was genotoxic also in the absence of metabolic activation indicating that this compound is a direct acting genotoxin. This finding is of particular importance as in the environment such compounds can directly affect DNA of non-target organisms and also explains toxicity of CPCOOH against cyanobacteria S.\xc2\xa0leopoliensis. The degradation study with UV irradiation of samples containing CP and IF showed efficient degradation of both compounds and remained non-toxic towards S.\xc2\xa0leopoliensis, suggesting that no stable TPs with adverse effects were formed. To our knowledge, this is the first study describing the ecotoxicity and genotoxicity of the commonly used cytostatics CP and IF, their known metabolites/TPs and their mixture. The results indicate the importance of toxicological evaluation and monitoring of drug metabolites as they may be for certain aquatic species more hazardous than parent compounds. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of this work was to evaluate the flocculation by the dinoflagellate Heterocapsa circularisquama as a means for harvesting three Chlorophyta species, Chlorella vulgaris, Nannochloropsis granulata, and Dunaliella salina. Relative fluorescence of D. salina culture significantly decreased along with 9.3-fold increased flocculation activity within 24 h when mixed with H. circularisquama. Lipid content of bioflocculated D. salina increased about 40%, while fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) profiles exhibited higher levels of C16:0, C18:0, and C18:1, compared to harvest by centrifugation, suggesting higher energy content. Furthermore, bioflocculated D. salina biomass had more suitable biodiesel properties relative to both EN14214 and ASTMD6751, with a cetane number of 49.0 and an iodine value of 95.9. These results suggest that H. circularisquama-induced bioflocculation is applicable for the sustainable and qualitative production of algal biodiesel. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Eukaryotic algae within the picoplankton size class (\xe2\x89\xa42 \xce\xbcm in diameter) are important marine primary producers, but their spatial and ecological distributions are not well characterized. Here, we studied three picoeukaryotic prasinophyte genera and their cyanobacterial counterparts, Prochlorococcus and Synechococcus, during two cruises along a North Pacific transect characterized by different ecological regimes. Picoeukaryotes and Synechococcus reached maximum abundances of 1.44 \xc3\x97 10(5) and 3.37 \xc3\x97 10(5) cells \xc2\xb7 ml(-1), respectively, in mesotrophic waters, while Prochlorococcus reached 1.95 \xc3\x97 10(5) cells \xc2\xb7 ml(-1) in the oligotrophic ocean. Of the picoeukaryotes, Bathycoccus was present at all stations in both cruises, reaching 21,368 \xc2\xb1 327 18S rRNA gene copies \xc2\xb7 ml(-1). Micromonas and Ostreococcus clade OI were detected only in mesotrophic and coastal waters and Ostreococcus clade OII only in the oligotrophic ocean. To resolve proposed Bathycoccus ecotypes, we established genetic distances for 1,104 marker genes using targeted metagenomes and the Bathycoccus prasinos genome. The analysis was anchored in comparative genome analysis of three Ostreococcus species for which physiological and environmental data are available to facilitate data interpretation. We established that two Bathycoccus ecotypes exist, named here BI (represented by coastal isolate Bathycoccus prasinos) and BII. These share 82% \xc2\xb1 6% nucleotide identity across homologs, while the Ostreococcus spp. share 75% \xc2\xb1 8%. We developed and applied an analysis of ecomarkers to metatranscriptomes sequenced here and published -omics data from the same region. The results indicated that the Bathycoccus ecotypes cooccur more often than Ostreococcus clades OI and OII do. Exploratory analyses of relative transcript abundances suggest that Bathycoccus NRT2.1 and AMT2.2 are high-affinity NO3 (-) and low-affinity NH4 (+) transporters, respectively, with close homologs in multiple picoprasinophytes. Additionally, in the open ocean, where dissolved iron concentrations were low (0.08 nM), there appeared to be a shift to the use of nickel superoxide dismutases (SODs) from Mn/Fe/Cu SODs closer inshore. Our study documents the distribution of picophytoplankton along a North Pacific ecological gradient and offers new concepts and techniques for investigating their biogeography. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microalgae have attracted wide attention as one of the most versatile renewable feedstocks for production of biofuel. To develop genetically engineered high lipid yielding algal strains, a thorough understanding of the lipid biosynthetic pathway and the underpinning enzymes is essential. In this work, we have systematically mined the genomes of fifteen diverse algal species belonging to Chlorophyta, Heterokontophyta, Rhodophyta, and Haptophyta, to identify and annotate the putative enzymes of lipid metabolic pathway. Consequently, we have also developed a database, dEMBF (Database of Enzymes of Microalgal Biofuel Feedstock), which catalogues the complete list of identified enzymes along with their computed annotation details including length, hydrophobicity, amino acid composition, subcellular location, gene ontology, KEGG pathway, orthologous group, Pfam domain, intron-exon organization, transmembrane topology, and secondary/tertiary structural data. Furthermore, to facilitate functional and evolutionary study of these enzymes, a collection of built-in applications for BLAST search, motif identification, sequence and phylogenetic analysis have been seamlessly integrated into the database. dEMBF is the first database that brings together all enzymes responsible for lipid synthesis from available algal genomes, and provides an integrative platform for enzyme inquiry and analysis. This database will be extremely useful for algal biofuel research. It can be accessed at http://bbprof.immt.res.in/embf. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study investigates different UV doses (mJ/cm(2)) and the effect of dark incubation on the survival of the algae Tetraselmis suecica, to simulate ballast water treatment and subsequent transport. Samples were UV irradiated and analyzed by flow cytometry and standard culturing methods. Doses of \xe2\x89\xa5400 mJ/cm(2) rendered inactivation after 1 day as measured by all analytical methods, and are recommended for ballast water treatment if immediate impairment is required. Irradiation with lower UV doses (100-200 mJ/cm(2)) gave considerable differences of inactivation between experiments and analytical methods. Nevertheless, inactivation increased with increasing doses and incubation time. We argue that UV doses \xe2\x89\xa5100 mJ/cm(2) and \xe2\x89\xa4200 mJ/cm(2) can be sufficient if the water is treated at intake and left in dark ballast tanks. The variable results demonstrate the challenge of giving unambiguous recommendations on duration of dark incubation needed for inactivation when algae are treated with low UV doses. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The identification of novel reagents that exert a biological ultraviolet (UV)-protective effect in skin cells represents an important strategy for preventing UV-induced skin aging. To this end, we investigated the potential protective effects of Ettlia sp. YC001 extracts against UV-induced cellular damage in normal human dermal fibroblasts (NHDFs). We generated four different extracts from Ettlia sp. YC001, and found that they exhibit low cytotoxicity in NHDFs. The ethyl acetate extract of Ettlia sp. YC001 markedly decreased UVB-induced cytotoxicity. Additionally, the ethyl acetate extract significantly inhibited the production of hydrogen peroxide-induced reactive oxygen species. Moreover, it inhibited UVB-induced thymine dimers, as confirmed by luciferase assay and thymine dimer dot-blot assay. Thus, the study findings suggest Ettlia sp. YC001 extract as a novel photoprotective reagent on UVB-induced cell dysfunctions in NHDFs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"A comprehensive analysis was conducted using a dataset obtained from October in 2013 to October in 2014 monitoring in 20 headwater streams of Jiulong River and four reservoirs, situated in such a coastal river-reservoir system in Southeast China suffering from intensive anthropogenic disturbance. In-situ monitoring, GIS and statistical analysis were coupled in this study to identify the spatiotemporal variations of nutrients&phytoplankton abundance and community structure, the differentiation of nitrogen&phosphorus limitation of phytoplankton growth, and the seasonal variations in nutrient limitation of phytoplankton growth. The results showed that there were obvious spatiotemporal variations in terms of nutrients&phytoplankton abundance and community structure in the 20 headwater streams and four reservoirs. The concentration of nitrogen was higher in winter and spring whereas lower in summer and autumn for both 20 headwater streams and four reservoirs. However, the concentration of phosphorus showed an opposite trend. The phytoplankton's abundance was the highest in summer for four reservoirs while it was higher in winter and spring, lower in summer and autumn in the 20 headwater streams. Meanwhile, the main trend in the succession of phytoplankton was from Bacillariophyta in autumn, winter and spring to Chlorophyta in summer in Tingxi reservoir, from Chlorophyta-Cryptophyta in winter and spring to Chlorophyta-Cyanophyta in summer and autumn in Jiangdong reservoir. No obvious trend exhibited in phytoplankton succession in Shidou-Bantou reservoir and 20 headwater streams. The Redundancy analysis (RDA) ordination plots well displayed the phytoplankton's community structure and its relationships with environmental factors. Besides, according to linear regression analysis there was a closer correlation between chlorophyll-a and nutrients in four reservoirs than in 20 headwater streams. In four reservoirs, N limitation was preliminarily observed in autumn whereas P limitation exhibited in winter. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'It has been reported in the literature that exposure of microalgae cells to audible sound could promote growth. This study examined the effect of sound waves with the frequency of 1100 Hz, 2200 Hz, and 3300 Hz to stimulate the biomass productivity of an Oklahoma native strain, Picochlorum oklahomensis (PO). The effect of the frequency of sound on biomass mass was measured. This study demonstrated that audible sound treatment of the algae cultures at 2200 Hz was the most effective in terms of biomass production and volumetric oil yield. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Different types of environmental stress may induce several physiological, biochemical and molecular responses in several crop plants. According to a patent study, several types of low antioxidant defense compounds and the activity of various antioxidant defense enzymes are induced in plants grown under various biotic and abiotic stress factors.METHODS: In this work, the responses of potatoes plant treated with algae extract to drought stress were examined by evaluating the crop yield of tuber, cellular biological compounds (total carbohydrates and proteins), mineral composition and enzyme and non-enzyme antioxidant systems and total oxidative compounds.RESULTS: The yield of tuber, concentration of low antioxidant defense compounds (glutathione, ascorbate, carotenoids, total phenol, flavonoids and tocopherols) and the activity of various antioxidant defense enzymes (catalase CAT; peroxidase POD; ascorbate peroxidase APX and superoxide dismutase SOD) in tuber of treated potato plants with algae extract were significantly increased compared with that in non-treated plants. In addition, essential elements: Fe, K, Ca, Mg and P were accumulated at high concentration in treated plant than that in untreated plants. The screening of antioxidant activity of the ethanolic extract of tubers potatoes treated with algae extracts using the di-(phenyl)-(2,4,6- trinitrophenyl) iminoazanium radical (DPPH) assay radical-scavenging showed an appreciable reduction of the stable radical DPPH with an IC50 of 75 \xc2\xb5g/ml.CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the algae foliar extracts application can improve non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidant defense systems in potatoes plant cultivated under drought stress conditions, and it may be recommended for application in arid and semiarid regions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Photosynthetic picoeukaryotes (PPEs) are major oceanic primary producers. However, the diversity of such communities remains poorly understood, especially in the northwestern (NW) Pacific. We investigated the abundance and diversity of PPEs, and recorded environmental variables, along a transect from the coast to the open Pacific Ocean. High-throughput tag sequencing (using the MiSeq system) revealed the diversity of plastid 16S rRNA genes. The dominant PPEs changed at the class level along the transect. Prymnesiophyceae were the only dominant PPEs in the warm pool of the NW Pacific, but Mamiellophyceae dominated in coastal waters of the East China Sea. Phylogenetically, most Prymnesiophyceae sequences could not be resolved at lower taxonomic levels because no close relatives have been cultured. Within the Mamiellophyceae, the genera Micromonas and Ostreococcus dominated in marginal coastal areas affected by open water, whereas Bathycoccus dominated in the lower euphotic depths of oligotrophic open waters. Cryptophyceae and Phaeocystis (of the Prymnesiophyceae) dominated in areas affected principally by coastal water. We also defined the biogeographical distributions of Chrysophyceae, prasinophytes, Bacillariophyceaea and Pelagophyceae. These distributions were influenced by temperature, salinity and chlorophyll a and nutrient concentrations. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Direct bioconversion of waste water algal biomass into ethanol using Clostridium phytofermentans DSM1183 was demonstrated in this study. Fermentation of 2% (w/v) autoclaved algal biomass produced ethanol concentration of 0.52 g L(-1) (solvent yield of 0.19 g/g) where as fermentation of acid pretreated algal biomass (2%, w/v) produced ethanol concentration of 4.6 g L(-1) in GS2 media (solvent yield of 0.26 g/g). The control experiment with 2% (w/v) glucose in GS2 media produced ethanol concentration of 2.8 g L(-1) (solvent yield of 0.25 g/g). The microalgal strains from waste water algal biomass were identified as Chlamydomonas dorsoventralis, Graesiella emersonii, Coelastrum proboscideum, Scenedesmus obliquus, Micractinium sp., Desmodesmus sp., and Chlorella sp., based on ITS-2 molecular marker. The presence of glucose, galactose, xylose and rhamnose were detected by high performance liquid chromatography in the algal biomass. Scanning Electron Microscopy observations of fermentation samples showed characteristic morphological changes in algal cells and bioaccessibility of C. phytofermentans. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the current global climate change scenario, stressors overlap in space and time, and knowledge on the effects of their interaction is highly needed to understand and predict the response and resilience of organisms. Corals, among many other benthic organisms, are affected by an increasing number of global change-related stressors including warming and invasive species. In this study, the cumulative effects between warming and invasive algae were experimentally assessed on the temperate reef-builder coral Cladocora caespitosa. We first investigated the potential local adaptation to thermal stress in two distant populations subjected to contrasting thermal and necrosis histories. No significant differences were found between populations. Colonies from both populations suffered no necrosis after long-term exposure to temperatures up to 29\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb0C. Second, we tested the effects of the interaction of both warming and the presence of invasive algae. The combined exposure triggered critical synergistic effects on photosynthetic efficiency and tissue necrosis. At the end of the experiment, over 90% of the colonies subjected to warming and invasive algae showed signs of necrosis. The results are of particular concern when considering the predicted increase of extreme climatic events and the spread of invasive species in the Mediterranean and other seas in the future. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The present study investigated copper, cadmium, lead and zinc accumulation in algal species Oedogonium, Cladophora, Oscillatoria and Spirogyra from freshwater habitats of Bhavnagar, India. Eight different locations were periodically sampled during August 2009 to March 2011. The general trend of heavy metal concentrations in all the algal species in present study (except at few stations), were found to be in the following order: Zn>Cu>Pb>Cd. Highest accumulation of Cu was recorded in Oedogonium, while Cladophora showed highest accumulation of Pb signifying a good bioaccumulator. Oscillatoria and Oedogonium were highest Zn accumulating algae which showed significant difference between the means at P<0.05. ANOVA was performed for comparing significance mean between the groups and within the group for heavy metals in water. The concentration of heavy metals in water was in the following order: Zn>Cu>Pb>Cd. The present study showed that Oedogonium, Cladophora, Oscillatoria and Spirogyra were excellent bioaccumulator and could be utilized as biomonitoring agents in water bodies receiving waste contaminated by metals. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Batch experiments were conducted to examine the efficacy of NaOH activated Codium tomentosum biomass on the sorption of hexavalent chromium. Several influencing parameters like pH, contact time, dosage and initial chromium(VI) concentration was experimented at 20\xc2\xb0C. The monolayer sorption capacity was found to be 5.504 \xc2\xb1 0.360 mg g(-1). Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm implied favorable condition of chromium(VI) biosorption, based on R2 values. Dubinin-Radushkevich isotherm showed the best fit linearity and infered that adsorption energy as 4.888 \xc2\xb1 0.129 kJ mol(-1). Pseudo-second order kinetics showed good compliance for the entire data and the rate constant (k2) was found to be 0.0398 \xc2\xb1 0.007 g mg(-1) min. Elovich kinetics exhibited that adsorption occurs on heterogeneous surface. Intraparticle diffusion model specified multi-linearity in adsorption process. Hence, the employed biosorbent was sensible and sorption efficiency was remarkable. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Moringa oleifera seed extract was tested for algae (Chlorella, Microcystis, Oocystis and Scenedesmus) removal by Jar-test technique. This coagulant can be used in drinking water treatment. Jar-test has been carried out in order to evaluate the efficiency of this natural coagulant agent inside real surface water matrix. The influence of variables has been studied in this process, including operating parameters such as coagulant dosage, initial algae concentration, pH, agitation time and water matrix. Removal capacity is verified for water with high contamination of algae while the process is not affected by the pH and water matrix. Coagulation process may be modelling through Langmuir and Freundlich adsorption hypothesis, so acceptable r2 coefficients are obtained. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In this work, the effectiveness of different enzymatic techniques for cell wall disruption of Haematococcus pluvialis for the extraction of carotenoids and subsequent encapsulation of extracts in the co-polymer poly(hydroxybutyrate-co-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV) using the Solution Enhanced Dispersion by Supercritical fluids (SEDS) technique was investigated. Glucanex(\xc2\xae) performed best compared with Lyticase(\xc2\xae) and Driselase(\xc2\xae). The conditions for enzymatic lysis using this enzyme preparation were established as a pH of 4.5, a temperature of 55 \xc2\xb0C, an initial activity of \xce\xb2-1,3-glucanase of 0.6 U mL(-1) and a reaction time of 30 min. Enzymatic lysis assisted by ultrasound without biomass freezing was shown to be a promising and simple one-step technique for cell wall disruption, reaching 83.90% extractability. In the co-precipitation experiments, the highest encapsulation efficiency (51.21%) was obtained when using a higher biomass to dichloromethane ratio (10 mg mL(-1)) at the carotenoid extraction step and a lower pressure of precipitation (80 bar). In these conditions, spherical particles in the micrometer range (0.228 \xce\xbcm) were obtained. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Current study investigates the effect of two alternative media NPK (20-5-20) fertilizer and NPK plus macrophyte (M+NPK) compared to the commercial medium (WC) under growth rate and physiological parameters in batch culture mode (2-L), and verifies whether the use of fertilizer (NPK) and macrophyte (Eichhornia crassipes) would be a good tool for Haematococcus pluvialis culture in the laboratory. The highest number of cells of H. pluvialis has been reported in NPK medium (5.4 \xc3\x97 105 cells.mL-1) on the 28th day, and in the M+NPK and WC media (4.1 \xc3\x97 105 cells.mL-1 and 2.1 \xc3\x97 105 cells.mL-1) on the 26th day, respectively. Chlorophyll-a contents were significantly higher (p<0.05) in NPK medium (41-102 \xc2\xb5g.L-1) and lower in WC and M+NPK media (14-61 \xc2\xb5g.L-1). The astaxanthin content was less than 0.04 mg.L-1. Production cost of 10-L of H. pluvialis was low in all media, and NPK and M+NPK media had a cost reduction of 65% and 82%, respectively when compared with commercial medium (WC). The use of a medium based on commercial fertilizer and macrophyte (E. crassipes) produced a new medium formulation that proved to be efficient, at least in batch culture mode, in promoting high density culture of H. pluvialis. NPK and macrophyte (E. crassipes) medium seems to be an adequate alternative to replace the conventional one (WC). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A synchronous population of cells is one of the prerequisites for studying cell cycle processes such as DNA replication, nuclear and cellular division. Green algae dividing by multiple fission represent a unique single cell system enabling the preparation of highly synchronous cultures by application of a light-dark regime similar to what they experience in nature. This chapter provides detailed protocols for synchronization of different algal species by alternating light-dark cycles; all critical points are discussed extensively. Moreover, detailed information on basic analysis of cell cycle progression in such cultures is presented, including analyses of nuclear, cellular, and chloroplast divisions. Modifications of basic protocols that enable changes in cell cycle progression are also suggested so that nuclear or chloroplast divisions can be followed separately. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Cellobiohydrolase 1 from Trichoderma reesei (TrCel7A) processively hydrolyses cellulose into cellobiose. Although enzymatic techniques have been established as promising tools in biofuel production, a clear understanding of the motor's mechanistic action has yet to be revealed. Here, we develop an optical tweezers-based single-molecule (SM) motility assay for precision tracking of TrCel7A. Direct observation of motility during degradation reveals processive runs and distinct steps on the scale of 1\xe2\x80\x89nm. Our studies suggest TrCel7A is not mechanically limited, can work against 20\xe2\x80\x89pN loads and speeds up when assisted. Temperature-dependent kinetic studies establish the energy requirements for the fundamental stepping cycle, which likely includes energy from glycosidic bonds and other sources. Through SM measurements of isolated TrCel7A domains, we determine that the catalytic domain alone is sufficient for processive motion, providing insight into TrCel7A's molecular motility mechanism. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'Mitochondrial F1FO-ATP synthase of chlorophycean algae is dimeric. It contains eight orthodox subunits (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, OSCP, a and c) and nine atypical subunits (Asa1 to 9). These subunits build the peripheral stalk of the enzyme and stabilize its dimeric structure. The location of the 66.1kDa subunit Asa1 has been debated. On one hand, it was found in a transient subcomplex that contained membrane-bound subunits Asa1/Asa3/Asa5/Asa8/a (Atp6)/c (Atp9). On the other hand, Asa1 was proposed to form the bulky structure of the peripheral stalk that contacts the OSCP subunit in the F1 sector. Here, we overexpressed and purified the recombinant proteins Asa1 and OSCP and explored their interactions in vitro, using immunochemical techniques and affinity chromatography. Asa1 and OSCP interact strongly, and the carboxy-terminal half of OSCP seems to be instrumental for this association. In addition, the algal ATP synthase was partially dissociated at relatively high detergent concentrations, and an Asa1/Asa3/Asa5/Asa8/a/c10 subcomplex was identified. Furthermore, Far-Western analysis suggests an Asa1-Asa8 interaction. Based on these results, a model is proposed in which Asa1 spans the whole peripheral arm of the enzyme, from a region close to the matrix-exposed side of the mitochondrial inner membrane to the F1 region where OSCP is located. 3D models show elongated, helix-rich structures for chlorophycean Asa1 subunits. Asa1 subunit probably plays a scaffolding role in the peripheral stalk analogous to the one of subunit b in orthodox mitochondrial enzymes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"Symbiosis generally causes an expansion of the niche of each partner along the axis for which a service is mutually provided. However, for other axes, the niche can be restricted to the intersection of each partner's niche and can thus be constrained rather than expanded by mutualism. We explore this phenomenon using Artemia as a model system. This crustacean is able to survive at very high salinities but not at low salinities, although its hemolymph's salinity is close to freshwater. We hypothesized that this low-salinity paradox results from poor performance of its associated microbiota at low salinity. We showed that, in sterile conditions, Artemia had low survival at all salinities when algae were the only source of carbon. In contrast, survival was high at all salinities when fed with yeast. We also demonstrated that bacteria isolated from Artemia's gut reached higher densities at high salinities than at low salinities, including when grown on algae. Taken together, our results show that Artemia can survive at low salinities, but their gut microbiota, which are required for algae digestion, have reduced fitness. Widespread facultative symbiosis may thus be an important determinant of niche limits along axes not specific to the mutualistic interaction. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b"The prasinophytes (early diverging Chlorophyta), consisting of simple unicellular green algae, occupy a critical position at the base of the green algal tree of life, with some of its representatives viewed as the cell form most similar to the first green alga, the 'ancestral green flagellate'. Relatively large-celled unicellular eukaryotic phytoflagellates (such as Tetraselmis and Scherffelia), traditionally placed in Prasinophyceae but now considered as members of Chlorodendrophyceae (core Chlorophyta), have retained some primitive characteristics of prasinophytes. These organisms share several ultrastructural features with the other core chlorophytes (Trebouxiophyceae, Ulvophyceae and Chlorophyceae). However, the role of Chlorodendrophycean algae as the evolutionary link between cellular individuality and cellular cooperation has been largely unstudied. Here, we show that clonal populations of a unicellular chlorophyte, Tetraselmis indica, consist of morphologically and ultrastructurally variant cells which arise through asymmetric cell division. These cells also differ in their physiological properties. The structural and physiological differences in the clonal cell population correlate to a certain extent with the longevity and function of cells. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'UNLABELLED: The unicellular freshwater green microalga Haematococcus pluvialis is the richest source of natural astaxanthin. Since accumulation of astaxanthin differs significantly among various algal strains at different stages, it is therefore critical to develop an effective high-throughput assay for rapid screening astaxanthin-hyperproducing strains. In the present study, near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) in combination with biochemical assay was employed for evaluation of the wide-type H.\xc2\xa0Pluvialis strains. The partial least squares (PLS) models of total biomass, astaxanthin content and astaxanthin expressed as a percentage of dry weight (DW) were developed with the R(2) values as 0\xc2\xb7959, 0\xc2\xb7982 and 0\xc2\xb7952, the prediction correlation factor (r) values as 0\xc2\xb7979, 0\xc2\xb7988 and 0\xc2\xb7966, and the residual predictive deviation (RPD) values as 4\xc2\xb788, 6\xc2\xb722 and 3\xc2\xb786, respectively. Furthermore, the PLS models were employed to evaluate H.\xc2\xa0pluvialis mutants, with the r values as 0\xc2\xb7973, 0\xc2\xb7983 and 0\xc2\xb7976, and the RPD values as 3\xc2\xb745, 7\xc2\xb759 and 4\xc2\xb707, respectively. This work thus demonstrates that NIRS is an easy, fast and non-invasive approach that can be applied in high-throughput screening of astaxanthin-hyperproducing algal mutants.SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Haematococcus pluvialis has potential application for its ability to accumulate natural antioxidant astaxanthin. In this study, we initiated the application of near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) in the analysis of total biomass and astaxanthin content of different mutant strains, demonstrating that NIRS can be very useful in the screening of axataxanthin-hyperproducing mutant strains. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Non-polar and polar solvents as well as their mixtures were tested for the extraction of microalgae lipids and thus, to evaluate their effect on total and esterifiable lipids extraction yields with potential to be converted to biodiesel. The obtained results show an increase in lipids and esterifiable lipids extraction yields when non-polar and polar solvent mixtures were used. The higher esterifiable lipids extraction yield was 19.2%wt (based on dry biomass) using a chloroform-methanol mixture (75%v/v of methanol), corresponding to a 98.9%wt esterifiable lipids extraction. In addition, esterifiable lipids extraction yield of 18.9%wt (based on dry biomass) was obtained when a petroleum ether-methanol mixture (75%v/v of methanol) was used, corresponding to a 96.9%wt esterifiable lipids extraction. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Within the FP7 EU project NanoValid a consortium of six partners jointly investigated the hazard of silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) paying special attention to methodical aspects that are important for providing high-quality ecotoxicity data. Laboratories were supplied with the same original stock dispersion of AgNPs. All partners applied a harmonised procedure for storage and preparation of toxicity test suspensions. Altogether ten different toxicity assays with a range of environmentally relevant test species from different trophic levels were conducted in parallel to AgNP characterisation in the respective test media. The paper presents a comprehensive dataset of toxicity values and AgNP characteristics like hydrodynamic sizes of AgNP agglomerates and the share (%) of Ag(+)-species (the concentration of Ag(+)-species in relation to the total measured concentration of Ag). The studied AgNP preparation (20.4\xc2\xb16.8 nm primary size, mean total Ag concentration 41.14 mg/L, 46-68% of soluble Ag(+)-species in stock, 123.8\xc2\xb112.2 nm mean z-average value in dH2O) showed extreme toxicity to crustaceans Daphnia magna, algae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata and zebrafish Danio rerio embryos (EC50<0.01 mg total Ag/L), was very toxic in the in vitro assay with rainbow trout Oncorhynchus mykiss gut cells (EC50: 0.01-1 mg total Ag/L); toxic to bacteria Vibrio fischeri, protozoa Tetrahymena thermophila (EC50: 1-10 mg total Ag/L) and harmful to marine crustaceans Artemia franciscana (EC50: 10-100 mg total Ag/L). Along with AgNPs, also the toxicity of AgNO3 was analyzed. The toxicity data revealed the same hazard ranking for AgNPs and AgNO3 (i.e. the EC50 values were in the same order of magnitude) proving the importance of soluble Ag(+)-species analysis for predicting the hazard of AgNPs. The study clearly points to the need for harmonised procedures for the characterisation of NMs. Harmonised procedures should consider: (i) measuring the AgNP properties like hydrodynamic size and metal ions species in each toxicity test medium at a range of concentrations, and (ii) including soluble metal salt control both in toxicity testing as well as in Ag(+)-species measurements. The present study is among the first nanomaterial interlaboratory comparison studies with the aim to improve the hazard identification testing protocols. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The negative effect of heat stress on the autotrophic astaxanthin production by Haematococcus pluvialis has been observed during outdoor culture in summer. Under the summer conditions, the proliferation of vegetative cells was highly halted in the green stage and the inducibility in the biosynthesis of astaxanthin was partly hindered in the red stage. Herein, under outdoor summer conditions in which variations of the diurnal temperature occur, heat-stress-driven inefficient vegetative growth of H. pluvialis was highly improved by inoculating the red cyst cells; thereby, maintaining relatively moderate intracellular carotenoid levels in the green stage. Subsequently, a remarkably enhanced astaxanthin titer was successfully obtained by supplementing 50 \xce\xbcM iron(II) to induce the heat stress-driven Haber-Weiss reaction in the red stage. As a result, the productivity of astaxanthin in the cells cultured under summer temperature conditions (23.4-33.5 \xc2\xb0C) using the two methods of red cell (cyst) inoculation and the iron(Fe(2+)) supplementation was increased by 147% up to 5.53 mg/L day compared with that of the cells cultured under spring temperature conditions (17.5-27.3 \xc2\xb0C). Our technical solutions will definitely improve the annual natural astaxanthin productivity in H. pluvialis in locations confronted by hot summer weather, particularly in large-scale closed photobioreactor systems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This study demonstrated that the limiting factor to algae growth on dairy wastewater was the ammonia nitrogen deficiency. Dairy wastewaters were mixed with a slaughterhouse wastewater that has much higher ammonia nitrogen content. The results showed the mixing wastewaters improved the nutrient profiles and biomass yield at low cost. Algae grown on mixed wastewaters contained high protein (55.98-66.91%) and oil content (19.10-20.81%) and can be exploited to produce animal feed and biofuel. Furthermore, algae grown on mixed wastewater significantly reduced nutrient contents remained in the wastewater after treatment. By mitigating limiting factor to algae growth on dairy wastewaters, the key issue of low biomass yield of algae grown on dairy wastewaters was resolved and the wastewater nutrient removal efficiency was significantly improved by this study. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'OBJECTIVES: To investigate the feasibility of coupling carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone-regulated photohydrogen production by Tetraselmis subcordiformis in a photobioreactor to an alkaline fuel cell (AFC).RESULTS: H2 evolution kinetics in the AFC integrated process was characterized. The duration of H2 evolution was prolonged and its yield was improved about 1.5-fold (to 78 \xc2\xb1 5 ml l(-1)) compared with that of the process without AFC. Improved H2 yield was possibly caused by removal of H2 feedback inhibition by H2 consumption in situ. Decreases in the H2 production rate correlated with the gradual deactivation of PSII and hydrogenase activities. The H2 yield was closely associated with catabolism of starch and protein.CONCLUSION: A marine green algal CO2-supplemented culture integrated with in situ H2-consumption by an AFC system was developed as a viable protocol for the H2 production. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: The class Chlorophyceae (Chlorophyta) includes morphologically and ecologically diverse green algae. Most of the documented species belong to the clade formed by the Chlamydomonadales (also called Volvocales) and Sphaeropleales. Although studies based on the nuclear 18S rRNA gene or a few combined genes have shed light on the diversity and phylogenetic structure of the Chlamydomonadales, the positions of many of the monophyletic groups identified remain uncertain. Here, we used a chloroplast phylogenomic approach to delineate the relationships among these lineages.RESULTS: To generate the analyzed amino acid and nucleotide data sets, we sequenced the chloroplast DNAs (cpDNAs) of 24 chlorophycean taxa; these included representatives from 16 of the 21 primary clades previously recognized in the Chlamydomonadales, two taxa from a coccoid lineage (Jenufa) that was suspected to be sister to the Golenkiniaceae, and two sphaeroplealeans. Using Bayesian and/or maximum likelihood inference methods, we analyzed an amino acid data set that was assembled from 69 cpDNA-encoded proteins of 73 core chlorophyte (including 33 chlorophyceans), as well as two nucleotide data sets that were generated from the 69 genes coding for these proteins and 29 RNA-coding genes. The protein and gene phylogenies were congruent and robustly resolved the branching order of most of the investigated lineages. Within the Chlamydomonadales, 22 taxa formed an assemblage of five major clades/lineages. The earliest-diverging clade displayed Hafniomonas laevis and the Crucicarteria, and was followed by the Radicarteria and then by the Chloromonadinia. The latter lineage was sister to two superclades, one consisting of the Oogamochlamydinia and Reinhardtinia and the other of the Caudivolvoxa and Xenovolvoxa. To our surprise, the Jenufa species and the two spine-bearing green algae belonging to the Golenkinia and Treubaria genera were recovered in a highly supported monophyletic group that also included three taxa representing distinct families of the Sphaeropleales (Bracteacoccaceae, Mychonastaceae, and Scenedesmaceae).CONCLUSIONS: Our phylogenomic study advances our knowledge regarding the circumscription and internal structure of the Chlamydomonadales, suggesting that a previously unrecognized lineage is sister to the Sphaeropleales. In addition, it offers new insights into the flagellar structures of the founding members of both the Chlamydomonadales and Sphaeropleales. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We investigated microorganisms dwelling on rocks, walls and paintings in two votive chapels built in grottoes in the Region of Campania, Italy. One grotto was near the coast in an area with a Mediterranean climate, and the other grotto was inland on a mountain in an area with a cold continental climate. Color and distribution of biofilms in various areas of the grottoes were examined. Microbial components of biofilms were identified by light and electron microscopy and by molecular techniques (DNA analyses and Automatic rRNA Intergenic Spacer Analysis). Biofilms were also analyzed by X-ray diffraction to detect inorganic constituents deriving from rocks in the grottoes and walls of the churches and by X-ray fluorescence to detect the elements that made up the pigments of the mural paintings; optical cross sections were used to observe their relationships with substrata. Species of eubacteria, cyanobacteria and green algae were identified. Some of these species occurred in both grottoes, while others were exclusive to only one of the grottoes. The diversity of species, their common or exclusive occurrence in the grottoes, the relationships among microbial communities and the differences in color and distribution of biofilms were discussed on the basis of the different climatic factors affecting the two grottoes and the different inorganic components of substrata. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the present study, a thorough investigation has been done on the removal efficiency of both As(III) and As (V) from synthetic wastewater by phycoremediation of Botryococcus braunii algal biomass. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) are practised for predicting % phycoremediation efficiency of both As(III) and As(V) ions. The influence of several parameters for example initial pH, inoculum size, contact time and initial arsenic concentration (either As(III) or As(V)) was examined systematically. The maximum phycoremediation of As(III) and As(V) was found to be 85.22% and 88.15% at pH9.0, equilibrium time of 144h by using algal inoculum size of 10% (v/v) and initial arsenic concentration of 50mg/L. The data acquired from laboratory scale experimental set up was utilized for training a three-layer feed-forward back propagation (BP) with Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) training algorithm having 4:5:1 architecture. A comparison between the experimental data and model outputs provided a high correlation coefficient (R(2)all_ANN equal to 0.9998) and exhibited that the model was capable for predicting the phycoremediation of both As(III) and As(V) from wastewater. The network topology was optimized by changing number of neurons in hidden layers. ANNs are efficient to model and simulate highly non-liner multivariable relationships. Absolute error and Standard deviation (SD) with respect to experimental output were calculated for ANN model outputs. The comparison of phycoremediation efficiencies of both As(III) and As(V) between experimental results and ANN model outputs exhibited that ANN model can determine the behaviour of As(III) and As(V) elimination process under various circumstances. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We report on the effects of high light irradiance (480 \xc2\xb5mol quanta/(m(2)\xc2\xb7s)) and salinity (160 and 200 g/liter NaCl) on culture growth as well as on cell lipid pigment and fatty acid (FA) composition in three novel strains of halophile microalga from the genus Dunaliella. Based on the ITS1-5.8S rRNA-ITS2 sequence and on the capability of accumulation of secondary (uncoupled from the photosynthetic apparatus) \xce\xb2-carotene, the strains Dunaliella sp. BS1 and BS2 were identified as D. salina and Dunaliella sp. R5 as D. viridis. Under conditions optimal for growth, chlorophylls and primary carotenoids (mainly lutein) dominated the pigment profile of all investigated strains. The main FA were represented by unsaturated C18 FA typical of thylakoid membrane structural lipids. In all studied cells, stressors caused a decline in chlorophylls and an increase in unsaturated C16 and C18 FA associated with reserve lipids. The carotenogenic species D. salina demonstrated 10-fold increase in carotenoids accompanied by a decline in lutein and a drastic increase in \xce\xb2-carotene (up to 75% of total carotenoids). In D. viridis, only 1.5-fold increase in carotenoid content took place, the ratio of major carotenoids remaining essentially unchanged. The role of the carotenogenic response in mechanisms of protection against photooxidative damage is discussed in view of halophile microalgae stress tolerance and application of the new Dunaliella strains for biotechnological production of \xce\xb2-carotene. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Polyketide synthase (PKS) catalyzes the biosynthesis of polyketides, which are structurally and functionally diverse natural products in microorganisms and plants. Here, we have analyzed available full genome sequences of microscopic and macroscopic algae for the presence of type I PKS genes.RESULTS: Type I PKS genes are present in 15 of 32 analyzed algal species. In chlorophytes, large proteins in the MDa range are predicted in most sequenced species, and PKSs with free-standing acyltransferase domains (trans-AT PKSs) predominate. In a phylogenetic tree, PKS sequences from different algal phyla form clades that are distinct from PKSs from other organisms such as non-photosynthetic protists or cyanobacteria. However, intermixing is observed in some cases, for example polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) and glycolipid synthases of various origins. Close relationships between type I PKS modules from different species or between modules within the same multimodular enzyme were identified, suggesting module duplications during evolution of algal PKSs. In contrast to type I PKSs, nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs) are relatively rare in algae (occurrence in 7 of 32 species).CONCLUSIONS: Our phylogenetic analysis of type I PKSs in algae supports an evolutionary scenario whereby integrated AT domains were displaced to yield trans-AT PKSs. Together with module duplications, the displacement of AT domains may constitute a major mechanism of PKS evolution in algae. This study advances our understanding of the diversity of eukaryotic PKSs and their evolutionary trajectories. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microalgae are good candidates for toxic metal remediation biotechnologies. This study explores the cellular processes implemented by the green microalga Coccomyxa actinabiotis to take up and cope with silver over the concentration range of 10(-7) to 10(-2) M Ag(+). Understanding these processes enables us to assess the potential of this microalga for applications for bioremediation. Silver in situ speciation and localization were investigated using X-ray absorption spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction, and transmission electron microscopy. Silver toxicity was evaluated by monitoring microalgal growth and photochemical parameters. Different accumulation mechanisms were brought out depending on silver concentration. At low micromolar concentration, microalgae fixed all silver initially present in solution, trapping it inside the cells into the cytosol, mainly as unreduced Ag(I) bound with molecules containing sulfur. Silver was efficiently detoxified. When concentration increased, silver spread throughout the cell and particularly entered the chloroplast, where it damaged the photosystem. Most silver was reduced to Ag(0) and aggregated to form crystalline silver nanoparticles of face-centered cubic structure with a mean size of 10 nm. An additional minor interaction of silver with molecules containing sulfur indicated the concomitant existence of the mechanism observed at low concentration or nanoparticle capping. Nanoparticles were observed in chloroplasts, in mitochondria, on the plasma membrane, on cytosolic membrane structures, and in vacuoles. Above 10(-4) M Ag(+), damages were irreversible, and photosynthesis and growth were definitely inhibited. However, high silver amounts remained confined inside microalgae, showing their potential for the bioremediation of contaminated water. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Linear, branch-chained triterpenes, including squalene (C30), botryococcene (C30), and their methylated derivatives (C31-C37), generated by the green alga Botryococcus braunii race B have received significant attention because of their utility as chemical and biofuel feedstocks. However, the slow growth habit of B. braunii makes it impractical as a production system. In this study, we evaluated the potential of generating high levels of botryococcene in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants by diverting carbon flux from the cytosolic mevalonate pathway or the plastidic methylerythritol phosphate pathway by the targeted overexpression of an avian farnesyl diphosphate synthase along with two versions of botryococcene synthases. Up to 544 \xc2\xb5g g(-1) fresh weight of botryococcene was achieved when this metabolism was directed to the chloroplasts, which is approximately 90 times greater than that accumulating in plants engineered for cytosolic production. To test if methylated triterpenes could be produced in tobacco, we also engineered triterpene methyltransferases (TMTs) from B. braunii into wild-type plants and transgenic lines selected for high-level triterpene accumulation. Up to 91% of the total triterpene contents could be converted to methylated forms (C31 and C32) by cotargeting the TMTs and triterpene biosynthesis to the chloroplasts, whereas only 4% to 14% of total triterpenes were methylated when this metabolism was directed to the cytoplasm. When the TMTs were overexpressed in the cytoplasm of wild-type plants, up to 72% of the total squalene was methylated, and total triterpene (C30+C31+C32) content was elevated 7-fold. Altogether, these results point to innate mechanisms controlling metabolite fluxes, including a homeostatic role for squalene. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Interest in microbial rhodopsins with ion pumping activity has been revitalized in the context of optogenetics, where light-driven ion pumps are used for cell hyperpolarization and voltage sensing. We identified an opsin-encoding gene (CsR) in the genome of the arctic alga Coccomyxa subellipsoidea C-169 that can produce large photocurrents in Xenopus oocytes. We used this property to analyze the function of individual residues in proton pumping. Modification of the highly conserved proton shuttling residue R83 or its interaction partner Y57 strongly reduced pumping power. Moreover, this mutation converted CsR at moderate electrochemical load into an operational proton channel with inward or outward rectification depending on the amino acid substitution. Together with molecular dynamics simulations, these data demonstrate that CsR-R83 and its interacting partner Y57 in conjunction with water molecules forms a proton shuttle that blocks passive proton flux during the dark-state but promotes proton movement uphill upon illumination. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Open-cut mining operations can form pit lakes on mine closure. These new water bodies typically have low nutrient concentrations and may have acidic and metal-contaminated waters from acid mine drainage (AMD) causing low algal biomass and algal biodiversity. A preliminary study was carried out on an acidic coal pit lake, Lake Kepwari, in Western Australia to determine which factors limited algal biomass. Water quality was monitored to obtain baseline data. pH ranged between 3.7 and 4.1, and solute concentrations were slightly elevated to levels of brackish water. Concentrations of N were highly relative to natural lakes, although concentrations of FRP (<0.01 mg/L) and C (total C 0.7-3.7 and DOC 0.7-3.5 mg/L) were very low, and as a result, algal growth was also extremely low. Microcosm experiment was conducted to test the hypothesis that nutrient enrichment will be able to stimulate algal growth regardless of water quality. Microcosms of Lake Kepwari water were amended with N, P and C nutrients with and without sediment. Nutrient amendments under microcosm conditions could not show any significant phytoplankton growth but was able to promote benthic algal growth. P amendments without sediment showed a statistically higher mean algal biomass concentration than controls or microcosms amended with phosphorus but with sediment did. Results indicated that algal biomass in acidic pit lake (Lake Kepwari) may be limited primarily by low nutrient concentrations (especially phosphorus) and not by low pH or elevated metal concentrations. Furthermore, sediment processes may also reduce the nutrient availability. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The acute toxicities of 36 pharmaceuticals towards green algae were estimated from a set of quantile regression models representing the first global quantitative structure-activity relationships. The selection of these pharmaceuticals was based on their predicted environmental concentrations. An agreement between the estimated values and the observed acute toxicity values was found for several families of pharmaceuticals, in particular, for antidepressants. A recent classification (BDDCS) of drugs based on ADME properties (Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism and Excretion) was clearly correlated with the acute ecotoxicities towards algae. Over-estimation of toxicity from our QSAR models was observed for classes 2, 3 and 4 whereas our model results were in agreement for the class 1 pharmaceuticals. Clarithromycin, a class 3 antibiotic characterized by weak metabolism and high solubility, was the most toxic to algae (molecular stability and presence in surface water). labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The main objective of the present study was to derive ecologically relevant effect threshold concentrations of (dissolved) Pb for selected European Union (EU) freshwater rivers, using the 2008\xe2\x80\x89EU Voluntary Risk Assessment Report as a starting point and more advanced methodologies than those used in the Voluntary Risk Assessment Report. This included 1) implementing more robust quality criteria for selecting chronic toxicity data; 2) the conversion of total to dissolved Pb concentrations using a combination of an empirical equation relating inorganic Pb solubility and geochemical speciation modeling to account for effects of dissolved organic matter; 3) the use of bioavailability models for chronic toxicity for species belonging to 3 different trophic levels; and 4) the use of robust methods for large data set handling (such as species sensitivity distribution [SSD] analysis). The authors used published bioavailability models for an algal species (Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata) and a daphnid (Ceriodaphnia dubia) and developed a new model for the fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas). The research has shown that these models are also useful for, and reasonably accurate in, predicting chronic toxicity to other species, including a snail, a rotifer, midge larvae, and an aquatic plant (read-across). A comprehensive chronic toxicity data set for Pb was compiled, comprising 159 individual high-quality toxicity data for 25 different species. By applying the total dissolved conversion and the bioavailability models, normalized toxicity values were obtained, which were then entered into a SSD analysis. Based on the parametric best-fitting SSDs, the authors calculated that ecological threshold concentrations of Pb protecting 95% of freshwater species for 7 selected European freshwater scenarios were between 6.3\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg dissolved Pb/L and 31.1\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcg dissolved Pb/L. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b"In the last few years, the emission of CeO2 and TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) into the environment has been raising concerns about their potential adverse effects on wildlife and human health. Aquatic organisms constitute one of the most important pathways for the entrance of these NPs and transfer throughout the food web, but divergences exist in the experimental data published on their aquatic toxicity. The pressing need for standardization of methods to analyze their ecotoxicity requires aquatic media representing realistic environmental conditions. The present study aimed to determine the usefulness of Suwannee River natural organic matter (SR-NOM) in the assessment of the agglomeration kinetics and ecotoxicity of CeO2 and TiO2 NPs towards green microalgae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata. SR-NOM alleviated the adverse effects of NPs on algal growth, completely in the case of TiO2 NPs and partially in the case of CeO2 NPs, suggesting a 'camouflage' of toxicity. This behavior has been observed also for other algal species and types of natural organic matter in the literature. Furthermore, SR-NOM markedly increased the stability of the NPs in algal medium, which led to a better reproducibility of the toxicity test results, and provided an electrophoretic mobility similar to that previously reported in various river and groundwaters. Thus, SR-NOM can be a representative sample of what is found in many different ecosystems, and the observed 'camouflage' of the effects of CeO2 and TiO2 NPs on algal cells might be considered as a natural interaction occurring in their standardized ecotoxicological assessment. labels: #Chlorophyta"
b'In this study, the influence of temperature and light intensity on the growth of seedlings and adults of four species of green tide algae (Ulvaprolifera, Ulvacompressa, Ulva flexuosa and Ulvalinza) from the Yellow Sea was evaluated. The results indicated that the specific growth rate (SGR) of seedlings was much higher than that of adults for the four species. The adaptability of U. prolifera is much wider: Adult daily SGRs were the highest among the four species at 15-20 \xc2\xb0C with 10-600 \xce\xbcmol \xc2\xb7 m(-2) \xc2\xb7 s(-1) and 25-30 \xc2\xb0C with 200-600 \xce\xbcmol \xc2\xb7 m(-2) \xc2\xb7 s(-1). SGRs were 1.5-3.5 times greater than the other three species at 15-25 \xc2\xb0C with 200-600 \xce\xbcmol \xc2\xb7 m(-2) \xc2\xb7 s(-1). These results indicate that U. prolifera has better tolerance to high temperature and light intensity than the other three species, which may in part explain why only U. prolifera undergoes large-scale outbreaks and floats to the Qingdao coast while the other three species decline and disappear at the early stage of blooming. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Euglenids are an ancient lineage that may have existed as early as 2 billion years ago. A mere 65\xc2\xa0years ago, Melvin Calvin and Andrew A. Benson performed experiments on Euglena gracilis and elucidated the series of reactions by which carbon was fixed and reduced during photosynthesis. However, the evolutionary history of this pathway (Calvin-Benson cycle) in euglenids was more complex than Calvin and Benson could have imagined. The chloroplast present today in euglenophytes arose from a secondary endosymbiosis between a phagotrophic euglenid and a prasinophyte green alga. A long period of evolutionary time existed before this secondary endosymbiotic event took place, which allowed for other endosymbiotic events or gene transfers to occur prior to the establishment of the green chloroplast. This research revealed the evolutionary history of the major enzymes of the Calvin-Benson cycle throughout the euglenid lineage and showed that the majority of genes for Calvin-Benson cycle enzymes shared an ancestry with red algae and/or chromophytes suggesting they may have been transferred to the nucleus prior to the acquisition of the green chloroplast. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Although benthic filamentous algae are interesting targets for wastewater treatment and biotechnology, relatively little is known about their biochemical composition and variation in response to growth conditions. Fatty acid composition of four benthic filamentous green algae was determined in different culture conditions. Although the response was partly species-dependent, increasing culture age, nitrogen deprivation and dark exposure of stationary phase greatly increased both total fatty acid content (TFA) from 12-35 to 40-173mgg(-1) dry weight (DW) and the relative proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) from 21-58% to 55-87% of TFA, with dark exposure having the greatest effect. However, the main variation in fatty acid composition was between species, with Uronema being rich in C16:0 (2.3% of DW), Klebsormidium in C18:2\xcf\x896 (5.4% of DW) and Stigeoclonium in C18:3\xcf\x893 (11.1% of DW). This indicates the potential of the latter two species as potential sources of these PUFAs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Lichen are symbiotic systems constituted by heterotrophic fungi (mycobionts) and photosynthetic microorganism (photobionts). These organisms can survive under extreme stress conditions. The aim of this work was to study the influence of low (-70 \xc2\xb0C) or high (+70 \xc2\xb0C) temperatures, temperature fluctuations from +70 \xc2\xb0C to -70 \xc2\xb0C, and anaerobic conditions on P. aphthosa (L.) Willd. viability. None of the studied stress factors affected significantly photosynthetic and respiratory activity of the thalli. No changes in morphology or ultrastructure of the cells were revealed for both photobiont and mycobiont components after extreme temperature treatment of P. aphthosa thalli. The data show the extreme tolerance of P. aphthosa to some stress factors inherent to the space flight conditions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of culture conditions, including carbon sources and concentration, culture period, and precondition time, on the production of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) and its influence on microalgal flocculation. EPS are natural high molecule polymer, excreted by microalgae themselves. EPS can accelerate the formation of microbial aggregates through binding cells closely. Organic carbon sources, such as glucose, glycerol, acetate and glycine were compared to select the optimal source to stimulate EPS accumulation. Subsequently, the effect of culture period, glycine dose and precondition time on EPS production and its influence on biomass growth and flocculation efficiency were investigated. As the main parts of EPS, tightly bound EPS were found positively related to suspended solids concentration. However, the loosely bound EPS may weaken the floc structure, leading to poor water-cells separation. Under the optimal condition with culture period of 16 days, glycine dose of 0.5 g l(-1) and precondition time of 5 days, the biomass concentration increased from 1.49 to 2 g l(-1), and the maximum suspended solids concentration of 7.06% with biomass recovery rate of 70.6% was achieved. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The ubiquitous native periphyton was used to entrap Cu and Cd from paddy fields. Results showed that Cu- and Cd-hydrate species such as CuOH(+), Cu2(OH)2(2+), CdOH(+), and Cu3(OH)4(2+) decreased with time in the presence of periphyton. When the initial concentrations of Cu and Cd were 10mg/L, the heavy metal content in the periphyton fluctuated from 145.20mg/kg to 342.42 mg/kg for Cu and from 101.75 mg/kg to 236.29 mg/kg for Cd after 2h exposure. The concentration of Cd in periphytic cells varied from 42.93 mg/kg to 174 mg/kg after 2h. The dominant periphyton microorganism species shifted from photoautotrophs to heterotrophs during the exposure of periphyton to Cu and Cd co-contamination. Although Cu and Cd could inhibit periphyton photosynthesis and carbon utilization, the periphyton was able to adapt to the test conditions. Cu and Cd accumulation in rice markedly decreased in the presence of periphyton while the number of rice seeds germinating was higher in the periphyton treatments. These results suggest that the inclusion of native periphyton in paddy fields provides a promising buffer to minimize the effects of Cu and Cd pollution on rice growth and food safety. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The ecotoxic effects of carbaryl (carbamate insecticide) were investigated with a battery of four aquatic bioassays. The nominal effective concentrations immobilizing 50% of Daphnia magna (EC50) after 24 and 48 h were 12.76 and 7.47 \xc2\xb5g L(-1), respectively. After 21 days of exposure of D. magna, LOECs (lowest observed effect concentrations) for cumulative molts and the number of neonates per surviving adult were observed at carbaryl concentration of 0.4 \xc2\xb5g L(-1). An increase of embryo deformities (curved or unextended shell spines) was observed at 1.8 and 3.7 \xc2\xb5g L(-1), revealing that carbaryl could act as an endocrine disruptor in D. magna. Other bioassays of the tested battery were less sensitive: the IC50-72h and IC10-72h of the algae Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata were 5.96 and 2.87 mg L(-1), respectively. The LC50-6d of the ostracod Heterocypris incongruens was 4.84 mg L(-1). A growth inhibition of H. incongruens was registered after carbaryl exposure and the IC20-6d was 1.29 mg L(-1). Our results suggest that the daphnid test sensitivity was better than other used tests. Moreover, carbaryl has harmful and toxic effects on tested species because it acts at low concentrations on diverse life history traits of species and induce embryo deformities in crustaceans. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Extant marine stromatolites act as partial analogues of their Achaean counterparts, but are rare due to depleted ocean calcium carbonate levels and suppression by eukaryotic organisms. Unique, peritidal tufa stromatolites at the interface between marine and freshwater inputs were discovered in South Africa in the past decade. Our aim was to investigate the benthic microalgal community (green algae, diatoms and cyanobacteria) of these stromatolites to assess succession and dominance patterns using real-time, in situ measurements of algal concentrations and composition. These biological measurements were modelled using generalized linear modelling (GLM) multivariate statistics against water physical and chemical parameters measured at regular monthly intervals, from January to December 2014. Salinity peaked and temperature dipped in winter, with both correlated to microalgal community change (GLM: P<0.01). Diatoms and cyanobacteria, which construct the stromatolites, were consistently the dominant groups within the algal community, with minimal green algae present throughout the year. Importantly, this demonstrates a unique, relatively stable microalgal stromatolite community as opposed to those of other marine stromatolites, which likely require seasonal and stochastic disturbance to persist. This has implications in terms of interpreting community succession and differential layering in modern and fossilized stromatolites respectively. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Micropollutant removal in an algal treatment system fed with source separated wastewater streams was studied. Batch experiments with the microalgae Chlorella sorokiniana grown on urine, anaerobically treated black water and synthetic urine were performed to assess the removal of six spiked pharmaceuticals (diclofenac, ibuprofen, paracetamol, metoprolol, carbamazepine and trimethoprim). Additionally, incorporation of these pharmaceuticals and three estrogens (estrone, 17\xce\xb2-estradiol and ethinylestradiol) into algal biomass was studied. Biodegradation and photolysis led to 60-100% removal of diclofenac, ibuprofen, paracetamol and metoprolol. Removal of carbamazepine and trimethoprim was incomplete and did not exceed 30% and 60%, respectively. Sorption to algal biomass accounted for less than 20% of the micropollutant removal. Furthermore, the presence of micropollutants did not inhibit C. sorokiniana growth at applied concentrations. Algal treatment systems allow simultaneous removal of micropollutants and recovery of nutrients from source separated wastewater. Nutrient rich algal biomass can be harvested and applied as fertilizer in agriculture, as lower input of micropollutants to soil is achieved when algal biomass is applied as fertilizer instead of urine. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Algae inactivation and algal metabolic pollutant removal of Chlorella and Duneliella salina from seawater by the Fe-ACF electro Fenton-like process has been studied. The experiments were conducted at neutral condition of pH 8.3 (raw water) and 6.2 to break through the limit of strong acidic conditions. Experimental results indicated that the Fe-ACF electro Fenton-like process has a good effect for algae inactivation and for pollutant removal in neutral conditions, and pH has no obvious effect for the inactivation of algae. At optimum conditions, the inactivation efficiency for algae could reach up to 98%. A pH of 8.3 is more favorable for pollutant removal. Under neutral pH conditions, the coupling effect of indirect oxidation of \xe2\x80\xa2OH, direct oxidation of free chlorine and coagulation and adsorption of ferric and ferrous hydroxy complexes in the electro Fenton-like process was achieved, and the coupling effect promotes the inactivation of algae and the removal of metabolic pollutants. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In addition to molecular structure profiles, descriptors based on physicochemical properties are useful for explaining the eco-toxicities of chemicals. In a previous study we reported that a criterion based on the difference between the partition coefficient (log POW) and distribution coefficient (log D) values of chemicals enabled us to identify aromatic amines and phenols for which interspecies relationships with strong correlations could be developed for fish-daphnid and algal-daphnid toxicities. The chemicals that met the log D-based criterion were expected to have similar toxicity mechanisms (related to membrane penetration). Here, we investigated the applicability of log D-based criteria to the eco-toxicity of other kinds of chemicals, including aliphatic compounds. At pH 10, use of a log POW - log D>0 criterion and omission of outliers resulted in the selection of more than 100 chemicals whose acute fish toxicities or algal growth inhibition toxicities were almost equal to their acute daphnid toxicities. The advantage of log D-based criteria is that they allow for simple, rapid screening and prioritizing of chemicals. However, inorganic molecules and chemicals containing certain structural elements cannot be evaluated, because calculated log D values are unavailable. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The fluorescence lifetime is a very useful parameter for investigating biological materials on the molecular level as it is mostly independent of the fluorophore concentration. The green alga Tetraselmis blooms in summer, and therefore its response to UV irradiation is of particular interest. In vivo fluorescence lifetimes of chlorophyll a were measured under both normal and UV-stressed conditions of Tetraselmis. Fluorescence was induced by two-photon excitation using a femtosecond laser and laser scanning microscope. The lifetimes were measured in the time domain by time-correlated single-photon counting. Under normal conditions, the fluorescence lifetime was 262 ps, while after 2 h of exposure to UV radiation the lifetime increased to 389 ps, indicating decreased photochemical quenching, likely caused by a damaged and down-regulated photosynthetic apparatus. This was supported by a similar increase in the lifetime to 425 ps when inhibiting photosynthesis chemically using DCMU. Furthermore, the UV-stressed sample was dark-adapted overnight, resulting in a return of the lifetime to 280 ps, revealing that the damage caused by UV radiation is repairable on a relatively short time scale. This reversal of photosynthetic activity was also confirmed by [Formula: see text] measurements. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The aim of the present study was to isolate and characterize novel nitrate reductase (NR)-deficient mutants, which may be useful for the transgenic manipulation of Dunaliella salina. Three NR-deficient mutants of D. salina, J-1, J-2, and J-3, were successfully isolated by screening for chlorate resistance after chemical mutagenesis with ethylnitrosourea. NR activity was not detected in the mutants and the expression of NR mRNA was significantly decreased. Growth analysis of D. salina strains grown in media containing different nitrogen sources revealed that these mutants were capable of utilizing nitrite and urea, but not nitrate as a nitrogen source, indicating that these mutants are indeed NR-deficient. Mutation analysis of NR cDNA sequences revealed that there were 11 point mutations shared by the J-1, J-2, and J-3 mutants. Furthermore, the results of the functional complementation experiment showed that NR activity of transformant T-1 derived from J-1 was recovered to 48.1 % of that of the wild-type D. salina. The findings of the present study indicate that nitrate may be used as a selective agent rather than antibiotics or herbicides for the isolated NR-deficient mutants in future transgenic D. salina systems. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Cylindrospermopsin (CYN) is a toxic secondary metabolite produced by filamentous cyanobacteria which could work as an allelopathic substance, although its ecological role in cyanobacterial-algal assemblages is mostly unclear. The competition between the CYN-producing cyanobacterium Chrysosporum (Aphanizomenon) ovalisporum, and the benthic green alga Chlorococcum sp. was investigated in mixed cultures, and the effects of CYN-containing cyanobacterial crude extract on Chlorococcum sp. were tested by treatments with crude extracts containing total cell debris, and with cell debris free crude extracts, modelling the collapse of a cyanobacterial water bloom. The growth inhibition of Chlorococcum sp. increased with the increasing ratio of the cyanobacterium in mixed cultures (inhibition ranged from 26% to 87% compared to control). Interestingly, inhibition of the cyanobacterium growth also occurred in mixed cultures, and it was more pronounced than it was expected. The inhibitory effects of cyanobacterial crude extracts on Chlorococcum cultures were concentration-dependent. The presence of C. ovalisporum in mixed cultures did not cause significant differences in nutrient content compared to Chlorococcum control culture, so the growth inhibition of the green alga could be linked to the presence of CYN and/or other bioactive compounds. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Batch experiments were conducted to study the adsorption of hazardous cadmium onto low-cost algae biomass in aqueous solution with respect to concentration of adsorbate, adsorbent dosage, contact time, solution pH and temperature. Langmuir and Freundlich adsorption models were applied to describe the equilibrium isotherms and the isotherm constants were determined. The activation energy of adsorption was also evaluated for the adsorption of cadmium onto Ulva lactuca biomass. Experimental data were tested in terms of biosorption kinetics using pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order kinetic models. The results showed that the biosorption processes of Cd(II) followed well pseudo-second-order kinetics. Langmuir and Freundlich models were applied to describe the biosorption isotherm of the metal ions by Ulva lactuca biomass. Langmuir model fitted the equilibrium data better than the Freundlich isotherm. The biosorption capacity of Ulva lactuca biomass for cadmium was found to be 3.02 mg/g at pH 5.60 min equilibrium time and 20 \xc2\xb0C. The mean free energy which was calculated was 6.24 kJ/mol for Cd(II) biosorption, which shows that the adsorption is physical. The calculated thermodynamic parameters (\xce\x94G0, \xce\x94H0 and \xce\x94S0) showed that the biosorption of Cd(II) onto Ulva lactuca biomass was feasible, spontaneous and exothermic under examined conditions. The results indicate that algae Ulva lactuca could be employed as a low-cost material for the removal of metal ions from aqueous solution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'CO2, as the typical greenhouse gas causing the greenhouse effect, is a major global environmental problem and has attracted increasing attention from governments. Using algae to eliminate CO2, which has been proposed as an effective way to reduce the greenhouse effect in the past decades, can be disturbed by a growing number of artificial chemicals. Thus, seven types of chemicals and Selenastrum capricornutum (algae) were examined in this study, and the good consistency between the toxicity of artificial chemicals to algae and the disturbance of carbon fixation by the chemicals was revealed. This consistency showed that the disturbance of an increasing number of artificial chemicals to the carbon fixation of algae might be a "malware" worsening the global greenhouse effect. Therefore, this study proposes an original, promising index to assess the risk of deepening the greenhouse effect by artificial chemicals before they are produced and marketed. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'To determine the dominant nitrogen sources and select effective macroalgal species for monitoring eutrophication along the Yantai coast, the total carbon (TOC), total nitrogen (TN) and nitrogen stable isotope ratio (\xce\xb4(15)N) in macroalgal tissue were analyzed in conjunction with environmental variables in seawater along the Yantai coastline. The ranges of macroalgal tissue \xce\xb4(15)N values together with dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) composition indicated that except for the atmospheric deposition, there were three dominant types of nitrogen sources along the Yantai coast, with the agricultural fertilizer usage and factorial wastewater input at the S1 (Zhifu Island coast), the sewage discharge at S2 (the Moon Bay coast), the sewage discharge together with aquaculture impacts at S3 (Fisherman Wharf coast) and S4 (the Horse Island coast). Macroalgal growth were not limited by DIN but limited by P at S2, S3 and S4. Macroalgal species suitable or not for DIN source tracing along the Yantai coast were discussed. For sites with low DIN concentration, many species of three phyla could be used for DIN sources tracing with Laurencia okamurai, Gloiopeltis furcata and Ulva pertusa being ideal species. For site with high DIN concentration, however, species of Rhodophyta were not suitable and only Scytosiphon lomentaria and Monostroma nitidium were chosen. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The precise boundary delineations between taxa in symbiotic associations are very important for evolutionary and ecophysiological studies. Growing evidence indicates that in many cases, the use of either morphological characters or molecular markers results in diversity underestimation. In lichen symbioses, Trebouxia is the most common genus of lichen phycobionts, however, the diversity within this genus has been poorly studied and as such there is no clear species concept. This study constitutes a multifaceted approach incorporating aspects of ultrastructural characterization by TEM and phylogenomics to evaluate the morphological and genetic diversity of phycobionts within the sexually reproducing lichen Ramalina fraxinea in the context of Mediterranean and temperate populations. Results reveal an association with at least seven different Trebouxia lineages belonging to at least two species, T. decolorans and T. jamesii, and diverse combinations of such lineages coexisting within the same thallus depending on the analyzed sample. Some of these lineages are shared by several other non-related lichen taxa. Our findings indicate the existence of a highly diverse assemblage of Trebouxia algae associating with R. fraxinea and suggest a possible incipient speciation within T. decolorans rendering a number of lineages or even actual species. This study stresses the importance of coordinated ultrastructural and molecular analyses to improve estimates of diversity and reveal the coexistence of more than one Trebouxia species within the same thallus. It is also necessary to have clearer species delimitation criteria within the genus Trebouxia and microalgae in general. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The green macroalgae present in freshwater ecosystems have attracted a great attention of the world scientists for removal of heavy metals from wastewater. In this mesocosm study, the uptake rates of heavy metals such as cadmium (Cd), nickel (Ni), chromium (Cr), and lead (Pb) by Oedogonium westi (O. westti) were measured. The equilibrium adsorption capabilities of O. westti were different for Cd, Ni, Cr, and Pb (0.974, 0.418, 0.620, and 0.261 mgg(-1), respectively) at 18 \xc2\xb0C and pH 5.0. Furthermore, the removal efficiencies for Cd, Cr, Ni and Pb were observed from 55-95%, 61-93%, 59-89%, and 61-96%, respectively. The highest removal efficiency was observed for Cd and Cr from aqueous solution at acidic pH and low initial metal concentrations. However, the removal efficiencies of Ni and Pb were higher at high pH and high concentrations of metals in aqueous solution. The results summarized that O. westti is a suitable candidate for removal of selected toxic heavy metals from the aqueous solutions. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In recent years, the release of chemical pollutants to water bodies has increased due to anthropogenic activities. Ni(2+) is an essential metal that causes damage to aquatic biota at high concentrations. Phytoplankton are photosynthesizing microscopic organisms that constitute a fundamental community in aquatic environments because they are primary producers that sustain the aquatic food web. Nickel toxicity has not been characterized in all of the affected levels of biological organization. For this reason, the present study evaluated the toxic effects of nickel on the growth of a primary producer, the green microalga Ankistrodesmus falcatus, and on its biochemical, enzymatic, and structural levels. The IC50 (96h) was determined for Ni(2+). Based on this result, five concentrations were determined for additional tests, in which cell density was evaluated daily. At the end of the assay, pigments and six biomarkers, including antioxidant enzymes (catalase [CAT], glutathione peroxidase [GPx], superoxide dismutase [SOD]), and macromolecules (proteins, carbohydrates and lipids), were quantified; the integrated biomarker response (IBR) was determined also. The microalgae were observed by SEM and TEM. Population growth was affected starting at 7.5 \xce\xbcg L(-1) (0.028 \xce\xbcM), and at 120 \xce\xbcg L(-1) (0.450 \xce\xbcM), growth was inhibited completely; the determined IC50 was 17 \xce\xbcg L(-1). Exposure to nickel reduced the concentration of pigments, decreased the content of all of the macromolecules, inhibited of SOD activity, and increased CAT and GPx activities. The IBR revealed that Ni(2+) increased the antioxidant response and diminished the macromolecules concentration. A. falcatus was affected by nickel at very low concentrations; negative effects were observed at the macromolecular, enzymatic, cytoplasmic, and morphological levels, as well as in population growth. Ni(2+) toxicity could result in environmental impacts with consequences on the entire aquatic community. Current regulations should be revised to protect primary producers. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: Starch-binding domains are key modules present in several enzymes involved in polysaccharide metabolism. These non-catalytic modules have already been described as essential for starch-binding and the catalytic activity of starch synthase III from the higher plant Arabidopsis thaliana. In Ostreococcus tauri, a unicellular green alga of the Prasinophyceae family, there are three SSIII isoforms, known as Ostta SSIII-A, SSIII-B and SSIII-C.RESULTS: In this work, using in silico and in vitro characterization techniques, we have demonstrated that Ostta SSIII-A, SSIII-B and SSIII-C contain two, three and no starch-binding domains, respectively. Additionally, our phylogenetic analysis has indicated that OsttaSSIII-B, presenting three N-terminal SBDs, is the isoform more closely related to higher plant SSIII. Furthermore, the sequence alignment and homology modeling data gathered showed that both the main 3-D structures of all the modeled domains obtained and the main amino acid residues implicated in starch binding are well conserved in O. tauri SSIII starch-binding domains. In addition, adsorption assays showed that OsttaSSIII-A D2 and SSIII-B D2 domains are the two that make the greatest contribution to amylose and amylopectin binding, while OsttaSSIII-B D1 is also important for starch binding.CONCLUSIONS: The results presented here suggest that differences between OsttaSSIII-A and SSIII-B SBDs in the number of and binding of amino acid residues may produce differential affinities for each isoform to polysaccharides. Increasing the knowledge about SBDs may lead to their employment in biomedical and industrial applications. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Microalgae species including Chlamydomonas mexicana, Micractinium reisseri, Scenedesmus obliquus and Tribonema aequale were cultivated in batch cultures, and their biochemical composition was determined. C. mexicana showed the highest carbohydrate content of 52.6% and was selected for further study. Sonication pretreatment under optimum conditions (at 40 kHz, 2.2 Kw, 50 \xc2\xb0C for 15 min) released 74 \xc2\xb1 2.7 mg g(-1) of total reducing sugars (TRS) of dry cell weight, while the combined sonication and enzymatic hydrolysis treatment enhanced the TRS yield by fourfold (280.5 \xc2\xb1 4.9 mg g(-1)). The optimal ratio of enzyme [E]:substrate [S]for maximum TRS yield was [1]:[5]at 50 \xc2\xb0C and pH 5. Combined sonication and hydrolysis treatment released 7.3% (27.1 \xc2\xb1 0.9 mg g(-1)) soluble protein of dry cell weight, and further fermentation of the dissolved carbohydrate fraction enhanced the soluble protein content up to 56% (228.4 mg g(-1)) of total protein content. Scanning and transmission electron microscopic analyses indicated that microalgae cells were significantly disrupted by the combined sonication and enzyme hydrolysis treatment. This study indicates that pretreatment and subsequent fermentation of the microalgal biomass enhance the recovery of carbohydrates and proteins which can be used as feedstocks for generation of biofuels. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Biological soil crusts (BSCs) are known as "ecosystem-engineers" that have important, multifunctional ecological roles in primary production, in nutrient and hydrological cycles, and in stabilization of soils. These communities, however, are almost unstudied in coastal dunes of the temperate zone. Hence, for the first time, the biodiversity of cyanobacterial and algal dominated BSCs collected in five dunes from the southern Baltic Sea coast on the islands R\xc3\xbcgen and Usedom (Germany) was investigated in connection with physicochemical soil parameters. The species composition of cyanobacteria and algae was identified with direct determination of crust subsamples, cultural methods, and diatom slides. To investigate the influence of soil properties on species composition, the texture, pH, electrical conductivity, carbonate content, total contents of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, and the bioavailable phosphorus-fraction (PO4 (3-)) were analyzed in adjacent BSC-free surface soils at each study site. The data indicate that BSCs in coastal dunes of the southern Baltic Sea represent an ecologically important vegetation form with a surprisingly high site-specific diversity of 19 cyanobacteria, 51 non-diatom algae, and 55 diatoms. All dominant species of the genera Coleofasciculus, Lyngbya, Microcoleus, Nostoc, Hydrocoryne, Leptolyngbya, Klebsormidium, and Lobochlamys are typical aero-terrestrial cyanobacteria and algae, respectively. This first study of coastal sand dunes in the Baltic region provides compelling evidence that here the BSCs were dominated by cyanobacteria, algae, or a mixture of both. Among the physicochemical soil properties, the total phosphorus content of the BSC-free sand was the only factor that significantly influenced the cyanobacterial and algal community structure of BSCs in coastal dunes. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'We examined the presence of bacteriorhodopsin and other retinal protein pigments in the microbial community of the saltern crystallizer ponds in Eilat, Israel, and assessed the effect of the retinal-based proton pumps on the metabolic activity. The biota of the hypersaline (~309\xc2\xa0g\xc2\xa0salts\xc2\xa0l(-1)) brine consisted of ~2200 \xce\xb2-carotene-rich Dunaliella cells and ~3.5\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa010(7) prokaryotes\xc2\xa0ml(-1), most of which were flat, square or rectangular Haloquadratum-like archaea. No indications were obtained for massive presence of Salinibacter. We estimated a concentration of bacteriorhodopsin and bacteriorhodopsin-like pigments of 3.6\xc2\xa0nmol\xc2\xa0l(-1). When illuminated, the community respiration activity of the brine samples in which oxygenic photosynthesis was inhibited by 3-(3-4-dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea, decreased by 40-43\xc2\xa0%. This effect was interpreted to be the result of competition between two energy yielding systems: the bacteriorhodopsin proton pump and the respiratory chain. The results presented have important implications for the interpretation of many published data on photosynthetic and respiratory activities in hypersaline environments. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Toilet flushing with seawater results in saline wastewater, which may contain approximately 33-50% seawater. Halogenated disinfection byproducts (DBPs), especially brominated and iodinated DBPs, have recently been found in chlorinated saline wastewater effluents. With the occurrence of brominated and iodinated DBPs, the adverse effects of chlorinated saline wastewater effluents to marine ecology have been uncertain. By evaluating the developmental effects in the marine polychaete Platynereis dumerilii directly exposed to chlorinated saline/freshwater wastewater effluents, we found surprisingly that chlorinated saline wastewater effluents were less toxic than a chlorinated freshwater wastewater effluent. This was also witnessed by the marine alga Tetraselmis marina. The toxicity of a chlorinated wastewater effluent to the marine species was dominated by its relatively low salinity compared to the salinity in seawater. The organic matter content in a chlorinated wastewater effluent might be partially responsible for the toxicity. The adverse effects of halogenated DBPs on the marine species were observed pronouncedly only in the "concentrated" chlorinated wastewater effluents. pH and ammonia content in a wastewater effluent caused no adverse effects on the marine species. The results suggest that using seawater to replace freshwater for toilet flushing might mitigate the "direct" acute detrimental effect of wastewater to the marine organisms. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'In the present study depth profiles of light, oxygen, pH and photosynthetic performance in an artificial biofilm of the green alga Halochlorella rubescens in a porous substrate photobioreactor (PSBR) were recorded with microsensors. Biofilms were exposed to different light intensities (50-1,000 \xce\xbcmol photons m(-2) s(-1) ) and CO2 levels (0.04-5% v/v in air). The distribution of photosynthetically active radiation showed almost identical trends for different surface irradiances, namely: a relatively fast drop to a depth of about 250 \xc2\xb5m, (to 5% of the incident), followed by a slower decrease. Light penetrated into the biofilm deeper than the Lambert-Beer Law predicted, which may be attributed to forward scattering of light, thus improving the overall light availability. Oxygen concentration profiles showed maxima at a depth between 50 and 150 \xce\xbcm, depending on the incident light intensity. A very fast gas exchange was observed at the biofilm surface. The highest oxygen concentration of 3.2 mM was measured with 1,000 \xce\xbcmol photons m(-2) s(-1) and 5% supplementary CO2. Photosynthetic productivity increased with light intensity and/or CO2 concentration and was always highest at the biofilm surface; the stimulating effect of elevated CO2 concentration in the gas phase on photosynthesis was enhanced by higher light intensities. The dissolved inorganic carbon concentration profiles suggest that the availability of the dissolved free CO2 has the strongest impact on photosynthetic productivity. The results suggest that dark respiration could explain previously observed decrease in growth rate over cultivation time in this type of PSBR. Our results represent a basis for understanding the complex dynamics of environmental variables and metabolic processes in artificial phototrophic biofilms exposed to a gas phase and can be used to improve the design and operational parameters of PSBRs. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'This work aimed to examine the effects of high light stress as well as other culture conditions including HCO3 \xe2\x88\x92 concentration, temperature, salinity, and pre-acclimation on photoinhibition and growth of halotolerant alga Dunaliella tertiolecta. Significant photoinhibition of D. tertiolecta was observed during a short period of exposure (6 hours) to high intensity of lights (1000, 1500, and 2000 \xce\xbcmol photons m-2 s-1); however, after 2 days of continuous light exposure, the alga adapted to high light stress and reached similar growth rates as low light exposure. The increase in HCO3 \xe2\x88\x92 concentration in the culture medium did not reduce photoinhibition, but the growth rate and chlorophyll contents increased with increasing HCO3 \xe2\x88\x92 concentrations. Temperature had significant effects on photoinhibition. Combined high temperature and high light intensity led to more serious photoinhibition and reduced cell growth rates, so did combined low salinity and high light intensity. Pre-acclimation by 50, 200, or 500 \xce\xbcmol photons m-2 s-1 each for 1, 3, or 6 hours (a total of nine treatments) did not significantly influence photoinhibition or cell growth of D. tertiolecta, probably because the acclimation periods were not long enough. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'A comparative evaluation of the removal of benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) by sorption and degradation by two microalgal species, Selenastrum capricornutum and Scenedesmus acutus was performed. The monitoring of the amount of BaP remaining in the liquid culture media and the biomass along with the appearance of three metabolites (4,5 dihydrodiol-BaP; 7,8-dihydrodiol-BaP; and 9,10 dihydrodiol-BaP) at short time periods (from 0.25 to 72 h) in cultures exposed to BaP was made by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with fluorescence and UV detection. Complete removal of BaP was achieved by the two live microalgal species: S. capricornutum at 15 h of exposure (99%) and S. acutus at 72 h of exposure (95%). Sorption is an important phenomenon for BaP removal by S. capricornutum but biodegradation is the principal means of removing BaP in live cells. The formation of metabolites by S. capricornutum is rapid and seems to be proportional to the amount of the BaP added to cultures. In contrast, in these bioassays, most of the BaP removal of S. acutus is due to sorption rather than degradation. The appearance of metabolites in the cultures is very slow and at a low amount compared to cultures of S. capricornutum. The similarities and differences existing between the two microalgae are important for the establishment of the conditions for bioremediation. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'The variation of phytoplankton community and the water quality in Jialing River after the impoundment of Caojie Reservoir was studied in this paper. There were 145 species of phytoplankton under the membership of 8 divisions and 74 genera. Bacillariophyta was the first dominant division, with a total of 57 species of 23 genera, accounted for 39. 3% of total phytoplankton species, followed by Chlorophyta, with 53 species of 28 genera and accounted for 36. 6%. Only 35 species of 23 genera belonged to Euglenphyta, Cryptophyta, Pyrrophyta, Chrysophyta, and Cyanophyta. The average phytoplankton abundance was 1. 82 x 10(5)cell . L-1, and the top three taxon of most abundant were Bacillariophyta, Cryptophyta and Pyrrophyta, accounted for 39. 2%, 29. 9%, and 24. 5% of total abundance, respectively. The cell abundance in spring was significantly higher than those in other seasons. The dominant species included Aulacoseria granulata, Melosira varians, Peridiniopsis niei, Komma caudata, Cryptomonas erosa etc., indicated by the dominant index. Excluded by cluster analysis, the influence on phytoplankton had initially emerged after the impoundment of Caojie Reservoir. The reservoir area could be divided into different ecological regions longitudinally after Caojie Reservoir impoundment, which had an important impact on the phytoplankton. Meanwhile, the phytoplankton and flow velocity between upstream and downstream of the dam significantly varied. Shannon-Wiener species diversity index, Margalef species richness index and Pielous evenness index ranged 2. 06 - 3. 55, 0. 76 - 1. 90 and 0. 50 - 0. 78, respectively. The evaluation results of phytoplankton community structure showed that the eutrophic state was at medium eutrophication level, while diversity analysis results indicated light to moderate pollution. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'BACKGROUND: The variability in gene organization and architecture of green algal mitochondrial genomes is only recently being studied on a finer taxonomic scale. Sequenced mt genomes from the chlorophycean orders Volvocales and Sphaeropleales exhibit considerable variation in size, content, and structure, even among closely related genera. However, sampling of mt genomes on a within-family scale is still poor and the sparsity of information precludes a thorough understanding of genome evolution in the green algae.METHODS: Genomic DNA of representative taxa were sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq2500 to produce 2x100 bp paired reads, and mitochondrial genomes were assembled and annotated using Geneious v.6.1.5. Phylogenetic analysis of 13 protein-coding mitochondrial genes spanning the Sphaeropleales was performed.RESULTS: This study presents one of the first within-family comparisons of mt genome diversity, and is the first to report complete mt genomes for the family Hydrodictyaceae (order Sphaeropleales). Four complete mt genomes representing three taxa and four phylogenetic groups, Stauridium tetras, Pseudopediastrum boryanum, and Pediastrum duplex, range in size from 37,723 to 53,560\xc2\xa0bp. The size variability is primarily due to intergenic region expansion, and intron content is generally low compared with other mt genomes of Sphaeropleales.CONCLUSIONS: Certain gene rearrangements appear to follow a phylogenetic pattern, and with a more thorough taxon sampling genome-level sequence may be useful in resolving systematic conundrums that plague this morphologically diverse family. labels: #Chlorophyta'
b'Klebsiella pneumoniae is a significant cause of nosocomial pneumonia and an alarming pathogen owing to the recent isolation of multidrug resistant strains. Understanding of immune responses orchestrating K. pneumoniae clearance by the host is of utmost importance. Here we show that type I interferon (IFN) signaling protects against lung infection with K. pneumoniae by launching bacterial growth-controlling interactions between alveolar macrophages and natural killer (NK) cells. Type I IFNs are important but disparate and incompletely understood regulators of defense against bacterial infections. Type I IFN receptor 1 (Ifnar1)-deficient mice infected with K. pneumoniae failed to activate NK cell-derived IFN-\xce\xb3 production. IFN-\xce\xb3 was required for bactericidal action and the production of the NK cell response-amplifying IL-12 and CXCL10 by alveolar macrophages. Bacterial clearance and NK cell IFN-\xce\xb3 were rescued in Ifnar1-deficient hosts by Ifnar1-proficient NK cells. Consistently, type I IFN signaling in myeloid cells including alveolar macrophages, monocytes and neutrophils was dispensable for host defense and IFN-\xce\xb3 activation. The failure of Ifnar1-deficient hosts to initiate a defense-promoting crosstalk between alveolar macrophages and NK cell was circumvented by administration of exogenous IFN-\xce\xb3 which restored endogenous IFN-\xce\xb3 production and restricted bacterial growth. These data identify NK cell-intrinsic type I IFN signaling as essential driver of K. pneumoniae clearance, and reveal specific targets for future therapeutic exploitations. labels: #Animals#Drug Resistance, Multiple#Interferon Type I#Killer Cells, Natural#Klebsiella Infections#Klebsiella pneumoniae#Macrophages, Alveolar#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Receptor Cross-Talk#Respiratory Tract Infections#Signal Transduction'
b"BACKGROUND: The Data Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs (D:A:D) study has developed predictive risk scores for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and chronic kidney disease (CKD, defined as confirmed estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] \xe2\x89\xa4 60 ml/min/1.73 m2) events in HIV-positive people. We hypothesized that participants in D:A:D at high (>5%) predicted risk for both CVD and CKD would be at even greater risk for CVD and CKD events.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We included all participants with complete risk factor (covariate) data, baseline eGFR>60 ml/min/1.73 m2, and a confirmed (>3 months apart) eGFR<60 ml/min/1.73 m2 thereafter to calculate CVD and CKD risk scores. We calculated CVD and CKD event rates by predicted 5-year CVD and CKD risk groups (\xe2\x89\xa41%,>1%-5%,>5%) and fitted Poisson models to assess whether CVD and CKD risk group effects were multiplicative. A total of 27,215 participants contributed 202,034 person-years of follow-up: 74% male, median (IQR) age 42 (36, 49) years, median (IQR) baseline year of follow-up 2005 (2004, 2008). D:A:D risk equations predicted 3,560 (13.1%) participants at high CVD risk, 4,996 (18.4%) participants at high CKD risk, and 1,585 (5.8%) participants at both high CKD and high CVD risk. CVD and CKD event rates by predicted risk group were multiplicative. Participants at high CVD risk had a 5.63-fold (95% CI 4.47, 7.09, p<0.001) increase in CKD events compared to those at low risk; participants at high CKD risk had a 1.31-fold (95% CI 1.09, 1.56, p = 0.005) increase in CVD events compared to those at low risk. Participants' CVD and CKD risk groups had multiplicative predictive effects, with no evidence of an interaction (p = 0.329 and p = 0.291 for CKD and CVD, respectively). The main study limitation is the difference in the ascertainment of the clinically defined CVD endpoints and the laboratory-defined CKD endpoints.CONCLUSIONS: We found that people at high predicted risk for both CVD and CKD have substantially greater risks for both CVD and CKD events compared with those at low predicted risk for both outcomes, and compared to those at high predicted risk for only CVD or CKD events. This suggests that CVD and CKD risk in HIV-positive persons should be assessed together. The results further encourage clinicians to prioritise addressing modifiable risks for CVD and CKD in HIV-positive people. labels: #Adult#Cardiovascular Diseases#Female#Glomerular Filtration Rate#HIV Seropositivity#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Prospective Studies#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Risk Factors"
b'BACKGROUND: It is unknown if extremely early initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) may lead to long-term ART-free HIV remission or cure. As a result, we studied 2 individuals recruited from a pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) program who started prophylactic ART an estimated 10 days (Participant A; 54-year-old male) and 12 days (Participant B; 31-year-old male) after infection with peak plasma HIV RNA of 220 copies/mL and 3,343 copies/mL, respectively. Extensive testing of blood and tissue for HIV persistence was performed, and PrEP Participant A underwent analytical treatment interruption (ATI) following 32 weeks of continuous ART.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Colorectal and lymph node tissues, bone marrow, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), plasma, and very large numbers of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained longitudinally from both participants and were studied for HIV persistence in several laboratories using molecular and culture-based detection methods, including a murine viral outgrowth assay (mVOA). Both participants initiated PrEP with tenofovir/emtricitabine during very early Fiebig stage I (detectable plasma HIV-1 RNA, antibody negative) followed by 4-drug ART intensification. Following peak viral loads, both participants experienced full suppression of HIV-1 plasma viremia. Over the following 2 years, no further HIV could be detected in blood or tissue from PrEP Participant A despite extensive sampling from ileum, rectum, lymph nodes, bone marrow, CSF, circulating CD4+ T cell subsets, and plasma. No HIV was detected from tissues obtained from PrEP Participant B, but low-level HIV RNA or DNA was intermittently detected from various CD4+ T cell subsets. Over 500 million CD4+ T cells were assayed from both participants in a humanized mouse outgrowth assay. Three of 8 mice infused with CD4+ T cells from PrEP Participant B developed viremia (50 million input cells/surviving mouse), but only 1 of 10 mice infused with CD4+ T cells from PrEP Participant A (53 million input cells/mouse) experienced very low level viremia (201 copies/mL); sequence confirmation was unsuccessful. PrEP Participant A stopped ART and remained aviremic for 7.4 months, rebounding with HIV RNA of 36 copies/mL that rose to 59,805 copies/mL 6 days later. ART was restarted promptly. Rebound plasma HIV sequences were identical to those obtained during acute infection by single-genome sequencing. Mathematical modeling predicted that the latent reservoir size was approximately 200 cells prior to ATI and that only around 1% of individuals with a similar HIV burden may achieve lifelong ART-free remission. Furthermore, we observed that lymphocytes expressing the tumor marker CD30 increased in frequency weeks to months prior to detectable HIV-1 RNA in plasma. This study was limited by the small sample size, which was a result of the rarity of individuals presenting during hyperacute infection.CONCLUSIONS: We report HIV relapse despite initiation of ART at one of the earliest stages of acute HIV infection possible. Near complete or complete loss of detectable HIV in blood and tissues did not lead to indefinite ART-free HIV remission. However, the small numbers of latently infected cells in individuals treated during hyperacute infection may be associated with prolonged ART-free remission. labels: #Adult#Anti-Retroviral Agents#Biomarkers#Flow Cytometry#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Prospective Studies#Recurrence#Secondary Prevention#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Gaps in the HIV care continuum contribute to poor health outcomes and increase HIV transmission. A combination of interventions targeting multiple steps in the continuum is needed to achieve the full beneficial impact of HIV treatment.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Link4Health, a cluster-randomized controlled trial, evaluated the effectiveness of a combination intervention strategy (CIS) versus the standard of care (SOC) on the primary outcome of linkage to care within 1 month plus retention in care at 12 months after HIV-positive testing. Ten clusters of HIV clinics in Swaziland were randomized 1:1 to CIS versus SOC. The CIS included point-of-care CD4+ testing at the time of an HIV-positive test, accelerated antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation for treatment-eligible participants, mobile phone appointment reminders, health educational packages, and noncash financial incentives. Secondary outcomes included each component of the primary outcome, mean time to linkage, assessment for ART eligibility, ART initiation and time to ART initiation, viral suppression defined as HIV-1 RNA<1,000 copies/mL at 12 months after HIV testing among patients on ART \xe2\x89\xa56 months, and loss to follow-up and death at 12 months after HIV testing. A total of 2,197 adults aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years, newly tested HIV positive, were enrolled from 19 August 2013 to 21 November 2014 (1,096 CIS arm; 1,101 SOC arm) and followed for 12 months. The median participant age was 31 years (IQR 26-39), and 59% were women. In an intention-to-treat analysis, 64% (705/1,096) of participants at the CIS sites achieved the primary outcome versus 43% (477/1,101) at the SOC sites (adjusted relative risk [RR] 1.52, 95% CI 1.19-1.96, p = 0.002). Participants in the CIS arm versus the SOC arm had the following secondary outcomes: linkage to care regardless of retention at 12 months (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.97-1.21, p = 0.13), mean time to linkage (2.5 days versus 7.5 days, p = 0.189), retention in care at 12 months regardless of time to linkage (RR 1.48, 95% CI 1.18-1.86, p = 0.002), assessment for ART eligibility (RR 1.20, 95% CI 1.07-1.34, p = 0.004), ART initiation (RR 1.16, 95% CI 0.96-1.40, p = 0.12), mean time to ART initiation from time of HIV testing (7 days versus 14 days, p<0.001), viral suppression among those on ART for \xe2\x89\xa56 months (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.88-1.07, p = 0.55), loss to follow-up at 12 months after HIV testing (RR 0.56, 95% CI 0.40-0.79, p = 0.002), and death (N = 78) within 12 months of HIV testing (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.46-1.35, p = 0.41). Limitations of this study include a small number of clusters and the inability to evaluate the incremental effectiveness of individual components of the combination strategy.CONCLUSIONS: A combination strategy inclusive of 5 evidence-based interventions aimed at multiple steps in the HIV care continuum was associated with significant increase in linkage to care plus 12-month retention. This strategy offers promise of enhanced outcomes for HIV-positive patients.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01904994. labels: #Adult#CD4 Lymphocyte Count#Clinical Protocols#Cluster Analysis#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Male#Medication Adherence#Patient Compliance#Program Evaluation#Swaziland'
b'Reassortment, which is the exchange of genome sequence between viruses co-infecting a host cell, plays an important role in the evolution of segmented viruses. In the human influenza virus, reassortment happens most frequently between co-existing variants within the same lineage. This process breaks genetic linkage and fitness correlations between viral genome segments, but the resulting net effect on viral fitness has remained unclear. In this paper, we determine rate and average selective effect of reassortment processes in the human influenza lineage A/H3N2. For the surface proteins hemagglutinin and neuraminidase, reassortant variants with a mean distance of at least 3 nucleotides to their parent strains get established at a rate of about 10-2 in units of the neutral point mutation rate. Our inference is based on a new method to map reassortment events from joint genealogies of multiple genome segments, which is tested by extensive simulations. We show that intra-lineage reassortment processes are, on average, under substantial negative selection that increases in strength with increasing sequence distance between the parent strains. The deleterious effects of reassortment manifest themselves in two ways: there are fewer reassortment events than expected from a null model of neutral reassortment, and reassortant strains have fewer descendants than their non-reassortant counterparts. Our results suggest that influenza evolves under ubiquitous epistasis across proteins, which produces fitness barriers against reassortment even between co-circulating strains within one lineage. labels: #Evolution, Molecular#Genome, Viral#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H3N2 Subtype#Influenza, Human#Reassortant Viruses'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To investigate whether symptomatic treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is non-inferior to antibiotics in the treatment of uncomplicated lower urinary tract infection (UTI) in women, thus offering an opportunity to reduce antibiotic use in ambulatory care.Design\xc2\xa0Randomised, double blind, non-inferiority trial.Setting\xc2\xa017 general practices in Switzerland.Participants\xc2\xa0253 women with uncomplicated lower UTI were randomly assigned 1:1 to symptomatic treatment with the NSAID diclofenac (n=133) or antibiotic treatment with norfloxacin (n=120). The randomisation sequence was computer generated, stratified by practice, blocked, and concealed using sealed, sequentially numbered drug containers.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcome was resolution of symptoms at day 3 (72 hours after randomisation and 12 hours after intake of the last study drug). The prespecified principal secondary outcome was the use of any antibiotic (including norfloxacin and fosfomycin as trial drugs) up to day 30. Analysis was by intention to treat.Results\xc2\xa072/133 (54%) women assigned to diclofenac and 96/120 (80%) assigned to norfloxacin experienced symptom resolution at day 3 (risk difference 27%, 95% confidence interval 15% to 38%, P=0.98 for non-inferiority, P<0.001 for superiority). The median time until resolution of symptoms was four days in the diclofenac group and two days in the norfloxacin group. A total of 82 (62%) women in the diclofenac group and 118 (98%) in the norfloxacin group used antibiotics up to day 30 (risk difference 37%, 28% to 46%, P<0.001 for superiority). Six women in the diclofenac group (5%) but none in the norfloxacin group received a clinical diagnosis of pyelonephritis (P=0.03).Conclusion\xc2\xa0Diclofenac is inferior to norfloxacin for symptom relief of UTI and is likely to be associated with an increased risk of pyelonephritis, even though it reduces antibiotic use in women with uncomplicated lower UTI.Trial registration\xc2\xa0ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01039545. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Ambulatory Care#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal#Double-Blind Method#Female#General Practice#Humans#Middle Aged#Norfloxacin#Switzerland#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To evaluate how selection of patients for high sensitivity cardiac troponin testing affects the diagnosis of myocardial infarction across different healthcare settings.Design\xc2\xa0Prospective study of three independent consecutive patient populations presenting to emergency departments.Setting\xc2\xa0Secondary and tertiary care hospitals in the United Kingdom and United States.Participants\xc2\xa0High sensitivity cardiac troponin I concentrations were measured in 8500 consecutive patients presenting to emergency departments: unselected patients in the UK (n=1054) and two selected populations of patients in whom troponin testing was requested by the attending clinician in the UK (n=5815) and the US (n=1631). The final diagnosis of type 1 or type 2 myocardial infarction or myocardial injury was independently adjudicated.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0Positive predictive value of an elevated cardiac troponin concentration for a diagnosis of type 1 myocardial infarction.Results\xc2\xa0Cardiac troponin concentrations were elevated in 13.7% (144/1054) of unselected patients, with a prevalence of 1.6% (17/1054) for type 1 myocardial infarction and a positive predictive value of 11.8% (95% confidence interval 7.0% to 18.2%). In selected patients, in whom troponin testing was guided by the attending clinician, the prevalence and positive predictive value were 14.5% (843/5815) and 59.7% (57.0% to 62.2%) in the UK and 4.2% (68/1631) and 16.4% (13.0% to 20.3%) in the US. Across both selected patient populations, the positive predictive value was highest in patients with chest pain, with ischaemia on the electrocardiogram, and with a history of ischaemic heart disease.Conclusions\xc2\xa0When high sensitivity cardiac troponin testing is performed widely or without previous clinical assessment, elevated troponin concentrations are common and predominantly reflect myocardial injury rather than myocardial infarction. These observations highlight how selection of patients for cardiac troponin testing varies across healthcare settings and markedly influences the positive predictive value for a diagnosis of myocardial infarction. labels: #Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Patient Selection#Predictive Value of Tests#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Troponin I#United Kingdom#United States'
b'Purpose: To evaluate macular and peripapillary vessel perfusion density (VD) in glaucoma suspects (GS) and glaucoma patients; to correlate ganglion cell-inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) and retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thicknesses with macular and peripapillary VD; and to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the structural and vascular parameters.Methods: A consecutive series of GS, glaucoma patients, and healthy subjects was prospectively recruited from July 1, 2016, to January 31, 2017. All subjects underwent standard automated perimetry, spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), and 6 \xc3\x97 6-mm optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) centered on the fovea and optic nerve.Results: Forty controls, 40 GS, and 40 glaucoma patients were enrolled. Peripapillary RNFL, GCIPL, and macular RNFL thicknesses significantly decreased in the glaucoma group compared to controls and GS (P<0.01). Peripapillary VD in average and in the superior and inferior quadrants decreased in the glaucoma group (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001); conversely, macular VD was not statistically different across groups (P>0.05). At the peripapillary area, a correlation between RNFL thickness and VD was found; conversely, no statistically significant correlation was found between GCIPL thicknesses and macular VD (all P>0.05) in all groups. Peripapillary RNFL and GCIPL showed higher diagnostic capacity compared to peripapillary and macular VDs.Conclusions: Structural damage is evident both in the peripapillary and in macular areas. Vascular damage seems to be less prominent, as it was seen only for the glaucoma group and at the radial peripapillary plexus. Diagnostic abilities are excellent for structural variables, less so but still good for peripapillary VD, and poor for macular VD. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Macula Lutea#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Perfusion Imaging#Prospective Studies#Regional Blood Flow#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Field Tests'
b'Purpose: To analyze the presence of complex alleles of the ABCA4 gene in Brazilian patients with Stargardt disease and to assess the correlation with clinical features.Methods: This was an observational cross-sectional study. Patients with a diagnosis of Stargardt disease who presented three pathogenic variants of the ABCA4 gene or who had variants previously described as complex alleles were included. The relatives of these probands were evaluated in the segregation analysis. The patients were evaluated based on age at symptom onset and visual acuity, and the clinical characteristics were classified according to the findings observed on autofluorescence examination.Results: Among the 47 families analyzed, approximately 30% (14/47) presented complex alleles. The segregation analysis in 14 families with cases of Stargardt disease identified three novel complex alleles and one previously described complex allele. The known complex allele p.[Leu541Pro; Ala1038Val] was identified in two families. The novel complex alleles identified were p.[Leu541Pro; Arg1443His]in five families, p.[Ser1642Arg; Val1682_Val1686del] in seven families, and p.[Pro1761Arg; Arg2106Cys]in one family. Furthermore, four new variants (p.Lys22Asn, p.Asp915Asn, p.Glu1447Val, and p.Pro1761Arg) were identified in the second allele of the ABCA4 gene.Conclusions: Segregation analysis is important in order to confirm the molecular diagnosis of patients with Stargardt disease, given the frequency of complex alleles in the ABCA4 gene. The various pathogenic variation combinations observed in this study were associated with different phenotypes. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Alleles#Brazil#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#DNA Mutational Analysis#Electroretinography#Female#Genetic Association Studies#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Pedigree#Retina#Visual Acuity#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the contribution of fixational saccades toward fixation instability in strabismic monkeys.Methods: Binocular eye movements were measured as six experimental monkeys (five strabismic monkeys and one monkey with downbeat nystagmus) and one normal monkey fixated targets of two shapes (Optotype, Disk) and two sizes (0.5\xc2\xb0, 2\xc2\xb0) during monocular and binocular viewing. Fixational saccades were detected using an unsupervised clustering algorithm.Results: When compared with the normal monkey, amplitude and frequency of fixational saccades in both the viewing and nonviewing eye were greater in 3 of 5 strabismic monkeys (1-way ANOVA on ranks P<0.001; median amplitude in the normal monkey viewing eye: 0.33\xc2\xb0; experimental animals: median amplitude range 0.20-0.82\xc2\xb0; median frequency in the normal monkey: 1.35/s; experimental animals: median frequency range 1.3-3.7/s). Increase in frequency of fixational saccades was largely due to quick phases of ongoing nystagmus. Fixational saccade amplitude was increased significantly (3-way ANOVA; P<0.001) but by small magnitude depending on target shape and size (mean difference between disk and optotype targets = 0.02\xc2\xb0; mean difference between 2\xc2\xb0 and 0.5\xc2\xb0 targets = 0.1\xc2\xb0). Relationship between saccade amplitude and the Bivariate Contour Ellipse Area (BCEA) was nonlinear, showing saturation of saccade amplitude. Fixation instability in depth was significantly greater in strabismic monkeys (vergence BCEA: 0.63 deg2-2.15 deg2) compared with the normal animal (vergence BCEA: 0.15 deg2; P<0.001).Conclusions: Increased fixational instability in strabismic monkeys is only partially due to increased amplitude and more frequent fixational saccades. Target parameter effects on fixational saccades are similar to previous findings of target effects on BCEA. labels: #Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Fixation, Ocular#Macaca mulatta#Nystagmus, Pathologic#Saccades#Strabismus#Vision, Binocular'
b'Purpose: To establish a model of the retinal capillary circulation in pigs, which in many aspects is close to the human retina.Methods: Using high density confocal microscopy image stacks of immunolabeled porcine retinal whole mounts, microvessels close to the optic nerve head were traced in three dimensions. The direction of flow of individual capillaries was deduced from their arteriolar and/or venous connections.Results: From major arteries, second-order arteries traversed the nerve fiber layer and resolved exclusively into the superficial vascular plexus (SVP), which dichotomized the blood flow between radial peripapillary capillaries (RPCs) on one side and the intermediate (IVP) and deep vascular plexus (DVP) on the other. Each RPC was supplied by one or several capillaries from the SVP and drained to the IVP or DVP. The DVP was a mosaic of approximately 300 to 600 \xce\xbcm wide anastomotic watersheds, each drained by one or two venules connected to major veins. A presumptive direction of flow could be determined for>90% of capillaries. These results suggest a model of the capillary circulation in which the three microvessel layers are serially organized with RPCs are in parallel between the SVP and IVP or DVP.Conclusions: In the peripapillary retina of pigs, microvascular layers have a serial arrangement, with RPCs emerging from the SVP and draining to the IVP or DVP; hence, connected in parallel of this scheme. The bulk of flow, therefore, traverses the SVP and DVP successively. This organization contributes to the higher oxygen saturation in the SVP and RPCs than in the DVP. Physiopathologic implications of this model regarding retinal diseases are discussed. labels: #Animals#Capillaries#Fluorescein Angiography#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Microcirculation#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Biological#Optic Disk#Regional Blood Flow#Retinal Artery#Retinal Vein#Sus scrofa#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: Cromakalim prodrug 1 (CKLP1) is a water-soluble ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener that has shown ocular hypotensive properties in ex vivo and in vivo experimental models. To determine its mechanism of action, we assessed the effect of CKLP1 on aqueous humor dynamics and in combination therapy with existing ocular hypotensive agents.Methods: Outflow facility was assessed in C57BL/6 mice by ex vivo eye perfusions and by in vivo constant flow infusion following CKLP1 treatment. Human anterior segments with no trabecular meshwork were evaluated for effect on pressure following CKLP1 treatment. CKLP1 alone and in combination with latanoprost, timolol, and Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632 were evaluated for effect on intraocular pressure in C57BL/6 mice and Dutch-belted pigmented rabbits.Results: CKLP1 lowered episcleral venous pressure (control: 8.9 \xc2\xb1 0.1 mm Hg versus treated: 6.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 mm Hg, P<0.0001) but had no detectable effect on outflow facility, aqueous humor flow rate, or uveoscleral outflow. Treatment with CKLP1 in human anterior segments without the trabecular meshwork resulted in a 50% \xc2\xb1 9% decrease in pressure, suggesting an effect on the distal portion of the conventional outflow pathway. CKLP1 worked additively with latanoprost, timolol, and Y27632 to lower IOP, presumably owing to combined effects on different aspects of aqueous humor dynamics.Conclusions: CKLP1 lowered intraocular pressure by reducing episcleral venous pressure and lowering distal outflow resistance in the conventional outflow pathway. Owing to this unique mechanism of action, CKLP1 works in an additive manner to lower intraocular pressure with latanoprost, timolol, and Rho kinase inhibitor Y27632. labels: #Amides#Animals#Anterior Eye Segment#Antihypertensive Agents#Aqueous Humor#Cromakalim#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Middle Aged#Ophthalmic Solutions#Prodrugs#Prostaglandins F, Synthetic#Pyridines#Rabbits#Sclera#Timolol#Tonometry, Ocular#Venous Pressure'
b'INTRODUCTION: Transection of the rectum at the anorectal junction is required for proper resection in ulcerative colitis and restorative proctocolectomy. Achieving stapled transection at the pelvic floor is often challenging, particularly during laparoscopic proctectomy. Transanal mucosectomy and handsewn anastomosis are frequently used to achieve adequate resection. Rectal eversion provides an alternative for low anorectal transection and maintains the ability to perform stapled anastomosis.TECHNIQUE: The purpose of this article is to describe a technique for low anorectal transection. The work was conducted at tertiary care center by 2 colon and rectal surgeons on patients undergoing total proctocolectomy with creation of ileal pouch rectal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis. We measured the ability to achieve low stapled anastomosis.RESULTS: Very low transection was achieved, allowing for creation of IPAA without leaving significant rectal cuff. This study was limited because it is an early experience that was not performed in the setting of a scientific investigation. No sphincter or bowel functional data were obtained or evaluated.CONCLUSIONS: Rectal eversion technique provides an alternative to mucosectomy when low pelvic transection is difficult to achieve. See Video at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A441. labels: #Adult#Anastomosis, Surgical#Colitis, Ulcerative#Colonic Pouches#Humans#Ileostomy#Laparoscopy#Male#Proctocolectomy, Restorative#Rectum#Surgical Stapling'
b'The aim of this study is to evaluate the application and accuracy of polymer gels for determining electron dose distributions in the presence of small heterogeneities made of bone and air. Different cylindrical phantoms containing MAGIC (Methacrylic and Ascorbic acid in Gelatin Initiated by Copper) normoxic polymer gel were used under the slab phantoms during irradiation. MR images of the irradiated gel phantoms were obtained to determine their R2 (spin-spin) relaxation maps for conversion to absorbed dose. One- and 2-dimensional lateral dose profiles were acquired at depths of 1 and 4 cm for 8 and 15 MeV electron beams. The results were compared with the doses measured by a diode detector at the same positions. In addition, the dose distribution in the axial orientation was measured by the gel dosimeter. The slope and intercept for the R2 versus dose curve were 0.509 \xc2\xb1 0.002 Gy s and 4.581 \xc2\xb1 0.005 s, respectively. No significant variation in dose-R2 response was seen for the two electron energies within the applied dose ranges. The mean dose difference between the measured gel dose profiles was smaller than 3% compared to those measured by the diode detector. These results provide further demonstration that electron dose distributions are significantly altered in the presence of tissue inhomogeneities such as bone and air cavity and that MAGIC gel is a useful tool for 3-dimensional dose visualization and qualitative assessment of tissue inhomogeneity effects in electron beam dosimetry. labels: #Anisotropy#Electrons#Equipment Design#Equipment Failure Analysis#Gels#Polymers#Radiation Dosage#Radiometry#Reproducibility of Results#Scattering, Radiation#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'The pharmacokinetic equations of Pierson et al. describing the behavior of bromide in rat provide a general approach to the modeling of extracellular fluid (ECF). The movement of material into ECF spaces is rapid and is completely characterized by tissue volumes and vascular flow rates to and from a tissue, the volumes of the tissue, and the ECF associated with the tissue. Early-time measurements are needed to characterize ECF. Measurements of DTPA disappearance from plasma by Wedeking et al. are discussed as an example of such measurements. In any biokinetic model, the fastest transfer rates are not determinable with the usual datasets, and if determined empirically, these rates will have very large and highly correlated uncertainties, so particular values of these rates, even though the model fits the available data, are not significant. A pharmacokinetic front-end provides values for these fast rates. An example of such a front-end for a 200-g rat is given. labels: #Animals#Blood Flow Velocity#Computer Simulation#Extracellular Fluid#Kinetics#Metabolic Clearance Rate#Models, Biological#Organ Size#Radiopharmaceuticals#Rats#Tissue Distribution'
b"INTRODUCTION: Sub-Saharan Africa bears more than two-thirds of the worldwide burden of HIV; however, data among transgender women from the region are sparse. Transgender women across the world face significant vulnerability to HIV. This analysis aimed to assess HIV prevalence as well as psychosocial and behavioral drivers of HIV infection among transgender women compared with cisgender (non-transgender) men who have sex with men (cis-MSM) in 8 sub-Saharan African countries.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Respondent-driven sampling targeted cis-MSM for enrollment. Data collection took place at 14 sites across 8 countries: Burkina Faso (January-August 2013), C\xc3\xb4te d'Ivoire (March 2015-February 2016), The Gambia (July-December 2011), Lesotho (February-September 2014), Malawi (July 2011-March 2012), Senegal (February-November 2015), Swaziland (August-December 2011), and Togo (January-June 2013). Surveys gathered information on sexual orientation, gender identity, stigma, mental health, sexual behavior, and HIV testing. Rapid tests for HIV were conducted. Data were merged, and mixed effects logistic regression models were used to estimate relationships between gender identity and HIV infection. Among 4,586 participants assigned male sex at birth, 937 (20%) identified as transgender or female, and 3,649 were cis-MSM. The mean age of study participants was approximately 24 years, with no difference between transgender participants and cis-MSM. Compared to cis-MSM participants, transgender women were more likely to experience family exclusion (odds ratio [OR]1.75, 95% CI 1.42-2.16, p<0.001), rape (OR 1.95, 95% CI 1.63-2.36, p<0.001), and depressive symptoms (OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.12-1.52, p<0.001). Transgender women were more likely to report condomless receptive anal sex in the prior 12 months (OR 2.44, 95% CI 2.05-2.90, p<0.001) and to be currently living with HIV (OR 1.81, 95% CI 1.49-2.19, p<0.001). Overall HIV prevalence was 25% (235/926) in transgender women and 14% (505/3,594) in cis-MSM. When adjusted for age, condomless receptive anal sex, depression, interpersonal stigma, law enforcement stigma, and violence, and the interaction of gender with condomless receptive anal sex, the odds of HIV infection for transgender women were 2.2 times greater than the odds for cis-MSM (95% CI 1.65-2.87, p<0.001). Limitations of the study included sampling strategies tailored for cis-MSM and merging of datasets with non-identical survey instruments.CONCLUSIONS: In this study in sub-Saharan Africa, we found that HIV burden and stigma differed between transgender women and cis-MSM, indicating a need to address gender diversity within HIV research and programs. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Africa South of the Sahara#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#HIV Infections#Health Surveys#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sexual Behavior#Social Stigma#Transgender Persons"
b'In a Perspective, Wafaa El-Sadr and colleagues discuss tailored approaches to treatment and prevention of HIV infection. labels: #Anti-Retroviral Agents#Communicable Disease Control#Developing Countries#Female#Global Health#Goals#HIV Infections#Humans#Male'
b'BACKGROUND: Retention in care is an essential component of meeting the UNAIDS "90-90-90" HIV treatment targets. In Khayelitsha township (population ~500,000) in Cape Town, South Africa, more than 50,000 patients have received antiretroviral therapy (ART) since the inception of this public-sector program in 2001. Disengagement from care remains an important challenge. We sought to determine the incidence of and risk factors associated with disengagement from care during 2013-2014 and outcomes for those who disengaged.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of all patients \xe2\x89\xa510 years of age who visited 1 of the 13 Khayelitsha ART clinics from 2013-2014 regardless of the date they initiated ART. We described the cumulative incidence of first disengagement (>180 days not attending clinic) between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2014 using competing risks methods, enabling us to estimate disengagement incidence up to 10 years after ART initiation. We also described risk factors for disengagement based on a Cox proportional hazards model, using multiple imputation for missing data. We ascertained outcomes (death, return to care, hospital admission, other hospital contact, alive but not in care, no information) after disengagement until 30 June 2015 using province-wide health databases and the National Death Registry. Of 39,884 patients meeting our eligibility criteria, the median time on ART to 31 December 2014 was 33.6 months (IQR 12.4-63.2). Of the total study cohort, 592 (1.5%) died in the study period, 1,231 (3.1%) formally transferred out, 987 (2.5%) were silent transfers and visited another Western Cape province clinic within 180 days, 9,005 (22.6%) disengaged, and 28,069 (70.4%) remained in care. Cumulative incidence of disengagement from care was estimated to be 25.1% by 2 years and 50.3% by 5 years on ART. Key factors associated with disengagement (age, male sex, pregnancy at ART start [HR 1.58, 95% CI 1.47-1.69], most recent CD4 count) and retention (ART club membership, baseline CD4) after adjustment were similar to those found in previous studies; however, notably, the higher hazard of disengagement soon after starting ART was no longer present after adjusting for these risk factors. Of the 9,005 who disengaged, the 2 most common initial outcomes were return to ART care after 180 days (33%; n = 2,976) and being alive but not in care in the Western Cape (25%; n = 2,255). After disengagement, a total of 1,459 (16%) patients were hospitalized and 237 (3%) died. The median follow-up from date of disengagement to 30 June 2015 was 16.7 months (IQR 11-22.4). As we included only patient follow-up from 2013-2014 by design in order to maximize the generalizability of our findings to current programs, this limited our ability to more fully describe temporal trends in first disengagement.CONCLUSIONS: Twenty-three percent of ART patients in the large cohort of Khayelitsha, one of the oldest public-sector ART programs in South Africa, disengaged from care at least once in a contemporary 2-year period. Fifty-eight percent of these patients either subsequently returned to care (some "silently") or remained alive without hospitalization, suggesting that many who are considered "lost" actually return to care, and that misclassification of "lost" patients is likely common in similar urban populations. A challenge to meeting ART retention targets is developing, testing, and implementing program designs to target mobile populations and retain them in lifelong care. This should be guided by risk factors for disengagement and improving interlinkage of routine information systems to better support patient care across complex care platforms. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Anti-Retroviral Agents#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Incidence#Male#Medication Adherence#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#South Africa'
b'BACKGROUND: Illness-related costs for patients with tuberculosis (TB) \xe2\x89\xa520% of pre-illness annual household income predict adverse treatment outcomes and have been termed "catastrophic." Social protection initiatives, including cash transfers, are endorsed to help prevent catastrophic costs. With this aim, cash transfers may either be provided to defray TB-related costs of households with a confirmed TB diagnosis (termed a "TB-specific" approach); or to increase income of households with high TB risk to strengthen their economic resilience (termed a "TB-sensitive" approach). The impact of cash transfers provided with each of these approaches might vary. We undertook an economic modelling study from the patient perspective to compare the potential of these 2 cash transfer approaches to prevent catastrophic costs.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Model inputs for 7 low- and middle-income countries (Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Ghana, Mexico, Tanzania, and Yemen) were retrieved by literature review and included countries\' mean patient TB-related costs, mean household income, mean cash transfers, and estimated TB-specific and TB-sensitive target populations. Analyses were completed for drug-susceptible (DS) TB-related costs in all 7 out of 7 countries, and additionally for drug-resistant (DR) TB-related costs in 1 of the 7 countries with available data. All cost data were reported in 2013 international dollars ($). The target population for TB-specific cash transfers was poor households with a confirmed TB diagnosis, and for TB-sensitive cash transfers was poor households already targeted by countries\' established poverty-reduction cash transfer programme. Cash transfers offered in countries, unrelated to TB, ranged from $217 to $1,091/year/household. Before cash transfers, DS TB-related costs were catastrophic in 6 out of 7 countries. If cash transfers were provided with a TB-specific approach, alone they would be insufficient to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs in 4 out of 6 countries, and when increased enough to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs would require a budget between $3.8 million (95% CI: $3.8 million-$3.8 million) and $75 million (95% CI: $50 million-$100 million) per country. If instead cash transfers were provided with a TB-sensitive approach, alone they would be insufficient to prevent DS TB-related catastrophic costs in any of the 6 countries, and when increased enough to prevent DS TB catastrophic costs would require a budget between $298 million (95% CI: $219 million-$378 million) and $165,367 million (95% CI: $134,085 million-$196,425 million) per country. DR TB-related costs were catastrophic before and after TB-specific or TB-sensitive cash transfers in 1 out of 1 countries. Sensitivity analyses showed our findings to be robust to imputation of missing TB-related cost components, and use of 10% or 30% instead of 20% as the threshold for measuring catastrophic costs. Key limitations were using national average data and not considering other health and social benefits of cash transfers.CONCLUSIONS: A TB-sensitive cash transfer approach to increase all poor households\' income may have broad benefits by reducing poverty, but is unlikely to be as effective or affordable for preventing TB catastrophic costs as a TB-specific cash transfer approach to defray TB-related costs only in poor households with a confirmed TB diagnosis. Preventing DR TB-related catastrophic costs will require considerable additional investment whether a TB-sensitive or a TB-specific cash transfer approach is used. labels: #Antitubercular Agents#Developing Countries#Health Care Costs#Humans#Income#Models, Economic#Poverty Areas#Socioeconomic Factors#Tuberculosis#Vulnerable Populations'
b'Driven by oncogenic signaling, glutamine addiction exhibited by cancer cells often leads to severe glutamine depletion in solid tumors. Despite this nutritional environment that tumor cells often experience, the effect of glutamine deficiency on cellular responses to DNA damage and chemotherapeutic treatment remains unclear. Here, we show that glutamine deficiency, through the reduction of alpha-ketoglutarate, inhibits the AlkB homolog (ALKBH) enzymes activity and induces DNA alkylation damage. As a result, glutamine deprivation or glutaminase inhibitor treatment triggers DNA damage accumulation independent of cell death. In addition, low glutamine-induced DNA damage is abolished in ALKBH deficient cells. Importantly, we show that glutaminase inhibitors, 6-Diazo-5-oxo-L-norleucine (DON) or CB-839, hypersensitize cancer cells to alkylating agents both in vitro and in vivo. Together, the crosstalk between glutamine metabolism and the DNA repair pathway identified in this study highlights a potential role of metabolic stress in genomic instability and therapeutic response in cancer. labels: #AlkB Enzymes#AlkB Homolog 3, Alpha-Ketoglutarate-Dependent Dioxygenase#Alkylation#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#DNA Damage#Enzyme Inhibitors#Glutaminase#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Nude#Neoplasm Proteins#Neoplasms#RNA Interference#Random Allocation#Tumor Burden#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Objectives\xc2\xa0To revise an existing three-talk model for learning how to achieve shared decision making, and to consult with relevant stakeholders to update and obtain wider engagement.Design\xc2\xa0Multistage consultation process.Setting\xc2\xa0Key informant group, communities of interest, and survey of clinical specialties.Participants\xc2\xa019 key informants, 153 member responses from multiple communities of interest, and 316 responses to an online survey from medically qualified clinicians from six specialties.Results\xc2\xa0After extended consultation over three iterations, we revised the three-talk model by making changes to one talk category, adding the need to elicit patient goals, providing a clear set of tasks for each talk category, and adding suggested scripts to illustrate each step. A new three-talk model of shared decision making is proposed, based on "team talk," "option talk," and "decision talk," to depict a process of collaboration and deliberation. Team talk places emphasis on the need to provide support to patients when they are made aware of choices, and to elicit their goals as a means of guiding decision making processes. Option talk refers to the task of comparing alternatives, using risk communication principles. Decision talk refers to the task of arriving at decisions that reflect the informed preferences of patients, guided by the experience and expertise of health professionals.Conclusions\xc2\xa0The revised three-talk model of shared decision making depicts conversational steps, initiated by providing support when introducing options, followed by strategies to compare and discuss trade-offs, before deliberation based on informed preferences. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Communication#Decision Making#Humans#Models, Theoretical#Physician-Patient Relations#Referral and Consultation'
b'Cholangiocarcinoma is a rare type of cancer which is an increasingly discernible health threat. The disease is usually very difficult in diagnosis and various treatment modalities are typically not effective. Cholangiocarcinoma is a complex and very heterogeneous malignancy characterized by tumor location, different risk factors, molecular profiling, and prognosis. Cancer cell lines represent an important tool for investigation in various aspects of tumor biology and molecular therapeutics. We established two cell lines, KKU-452 and KKU-023, which were derived from patients residing in the endemic area of liver fluke infection in Thailand. Both of tumor tissues have gross pathology of perihilar and intrahepatic mass-forming cholangiocarcinoma. Two cell lines were characterized for their biological, molecular and genetic properties. KKU-452 and KKU-023 cells are both adherent cells with epithelium morphology, but have some differences in their growth pattern (a doubling time of 17.9 vs 34.8 h, respectively) and the expression of epithelial bile duct markers, CK7 and CK19. Cytogenetic analysis of KKU-452 and KKU-023 cells revealed their highly complex karyotypes; hypertriploid and hypotetraploid, respectively, with multiple chromosomal aberrations. Both cell lines showed mutations in p53 but not in KRAS. KKU-452 showed a very rapid migration and invasion properties in concert with low expression of E-cadherin and high expression of N-cadherin, whereas KKU-023 showed opposite characters. KKU-023, but not KKU-452, showed in vivo tumorigenicity in xenografted nude mice. Those two established cholangiocarcinoma cell lines with unique characters may be valuable for better understanding the process of carcinogenesis and developing new therapeutics for the patients. labels: #Animals#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Separation#Cholangiocarcinoma#Endemic Diseases#Fascioliasis#Female#Heterografts#Humans#Mice#Middle Aged#Thailand'
b'Xanthones are phytochemical compounds found in a number of fruits and vegetables. Characteristically, they are noted to be made of diverse properties based on their biological, biochemical, and pharmacological actions. Accordingly, the apoptosis mechanisms induced by beta-mangostin, a xanthone compound isolated from Cratoxylum arborescens in the human promyelocytic leukemia cell line (HL60) in vitro, were examined in this study. The 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay was done to estimate the cytotoxicity effect of \xce\xb2-mangostin on the HL60 cell line. Acridine orange/propidium iodide and Hoechst 33342 dyes and Annexin V tests were conducted to detect the apoptosis features. Caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities; reactive oxygen species; real-time polymerase chain reaction for Bcl-2, Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 Hsp70 genes; and western blot for p53, cytochrome c, and pro- and cleavage-caspase-3 and caspase-9 were assessed to examine the apoptosis mechanism. Cell-cycle analysis conducted revealed that \xce\xb2-mangostin inhibited the growth of HL60 at 58\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M in 24\xe2\x80\x89h. The administration of \xce\xb2-mangostin with HL60 caused cell morphological changes related to apoptosis which increased the number of early and late apoptotic cells. The \xce\xb2-mangostin-catalyzed apoptosis action through caspase-3, caspase-7, and caspase-9 activation overproduced reactive oxygen species which downregulated the expression of antiapoptotic genes Bcl-2 and HSP70. Conversely, the expression of the apoptotic genes Bax, caspase-3, and caspase-9 were upregulated. Meanwhile, at the protein level, \xce\xb2-mangostin activated the formation of cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-9 and also upregulated the p53. \xce\xb2-mangostin arrested the cell cycle at the G0/G1phase. Overall, the results for \xce\xb2-mangostin showed an antiproliferative effect in HL60 via stopping the cell cycle at the G0/G1phase and prompted the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Clusiaceae#Down-Regulation#G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Plant Extracts#Reactive Oxygen Species#Xanthones'
b'The role of microRNAs in brain cancer is still naive. Some act as oncogene and others as tumor suppressors. Discovery of efficient biomarkers is mandatory to debate that aggressive disease. Bioinformatically selected microRNAs and their targets were investigated to evaluate their putative signature as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in primary glioblastoma multiforme. Expression of a panel of seven microRNAs (hsa-miR-34a, hsa-miR-16, hsa-miR-17, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-221, hsa-miR-326, and hsa-miR-375) and seven target genes ( E2F3, PI3KCA, TOM34, WNT5A, PDCD4, DFFA, and EGFR) in 43 glioblastoma multiforme specimens were profiled compared to non-cancer tissues via quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Immunohistochemistry staining for three proteins (VEGFA, BAX, and BCL2) was performed. Gene enrichment analysis identified the biological regulatory functions of the gene panel in glioma pathway. MGMT ( O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase) promoter methylation was analyzed for molecular subtyping of tumor specimens. Our data demonstrated a significant upregulation of five microRNAs (hsa-miR-16, hsa-miR-17, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-221, and hsa-miR-375), three genes ( E2F3, PI3KCA, and Wnt5a), two proteins (VEGFA and BCL2), and downregulation of hsa-miR-34a and three other genes ( DFFA, PDCD4, and EGFR) in brain cancer tissues. Receiver operating characteristic analysis revealed that miR-34a (area under the curve = 0.927) and miR-17 (area under the curve = 0.900) had the highest diagnostic performance, followed by miR-221 (area under the curve = 0.845), miR-21 (area under the curve = 0.836), WNT5A (area under the curve = 0.809), PDCD4 (area under the curve = 0.809), and PI3KCA (area under the curve = 0.800). MGMT promoter methylation status was associated with high miR-221 levels. Moreover, patients with VEGFA overexpression and downregulation of TOM34 and BAX had poor overall survival. Nevertheless, miR-17, miR-221, and miR-326 downregulation were significantly associated with high recurrence rate. Multivariate analysis by hierarchical clustering classified patients into four distinct groups based on gene panel signature. In conclusion, the explored microRNA-target dysregulation could pave the road toward developing potential therapeutic strategies for glioblastoma multiforme. Future translational and functional studies are highly recommended to better understand the complex bio-molecular signature of this difficult-to-treat tumor. labels: #Adult#Area Under Curve#Brain Neoplasms#Cluster Analysis#Female#Glioblastoma#Humans#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#ROC Curve#Transcriptome'
b'Accurate staging of rectal cancer remains essential for optimal patient selection for combined modality treatment, including radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgery. We aimed at examining the correlation of cell free DNA with the pathologic stage and subsequent risk of recurrence for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer undergoing preoperative chemoradiation. We examined 75 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer receiving preoperative chemoradiation. Blood samples for translational use were drawn prior to rectal surgery. The level of cell free DNA was quantified by digital droplet PCR and expressed as copy number of beta 2 microglobulin. We found a median level of cell free DNA in the AJCC stages I-III of 3100, 8300, and 10,700 copies/mL respectively. For patients with 12 sampled lymph nodes or above, the median level of cell free DNA were 2400 copies/mL and 4400 copies/mL (p = 0.04) for node negative and node positive disease respectively. The median follow-up was 39 months and 11 recurrences were detected (15%). The median level for patients with recurrent disease was 13,000 copies/mL compared to 5200 copies/mL for non-recurrent patients (p = 0.08). We have demonstrated a correlation between the level of total cell free DNA and the pathologic stage and nodal involvement. Furthermore, we have found a trend towards a correlation with the risk of recurrence following resection of localized rectal cancer. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Chemoradiotherapy#DNA#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Rectal Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b'Lung cancer is one of the most frequently occurring cancers throughout the world as well as in Bangladesh. This study aimed to correlate the prognostic and/or predictive value of functional polymorphisms in SULT1A1 (rs9282861) and XRCC1 (rs25487) genes and lung cancer risk in Bangladeshi population. A case-control study was conducted which comprises 202 lung cancer patients and 242 healthy volunteers taking into account the age, sex, and smoking status. After isolation of genomic DNA, genotyping was done by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method and the lung cancer risk was evaluated as odds ratio that was adjusted for age, sex, and smoking status. A significant association was found between SULT1A1 rs9282861 and XRCC1 rs25487 polymorphisms and lung cancer risk. In case of rs9282861 polymorphism, Arg/His (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x895.06, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.05-8.41, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and His/His (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.88, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.20-6.82, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) genotypes were strongly associated with increased risk of lung cancer in comparison to the Arg/Arg genotype. In case of rs25487 polymorphism, Arg/Gln heterozygote (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.57, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.79-7.46, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and Gln/Gln mutant homozygote (adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.99, 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.66-9.36, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) were also found to be significantly associated with increased risk of lung cancer. This study demonstrates that the presence of His allele and Gln allele in case of SULT1A1 rs9282861 and XRCC1 rs25487, respectively, involve in lung cancer prognosis in Bangladeshi population. labels: #Arylsulfotransferase#Bangladesh#Case-Control Studies#DNA-Binding Proteins#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Smoking#X-ray Repair Cross Complementing Protein 1'
b'Since the inception of the Canadian Cardiovascular Society heart failure (HF) guidelines in 2006, much has changed in the care for patients with HF. Over the past decade, the HF Guidelines Committee has published regular updates. However, because of the major changes that have occurred, the Guidelines Committee believes that a comprehensive reassessment of the HF management recommendations is\xc2\xa0presently needed, with a view to producing a full and complete set of updated guidelines. The primary and secondary Canadian Cardiovascular Society HF panel members as well as external experts have reviewed clinically relevant literature to provide guidance for the practicing clinician. The 2017 HF guidelines provide updated guidance on the diagnosis and management (self-care, pharmacologic, nonpharmacologic, device, and referral) that should aid in day-to-day decisions for caring for patients with HF. Among specific issues covered are risk scores, the differences in management for HF with preserved vs reduced ejection fraction, exercise and rehabilitation, implantable devices, revascularization, right ventricular dysfunction, anemia, and iron deficiency, cardiorenal syndrome, sleep apnea, cardiomyopathies, HF in pregnancy, cardio-oncology, and myocarditis. We devoted attention to strategies and treatments to prevent HF, to the organization of HF care, comorbidity management, as well as practical issues around the timing of referral and follow-up care. Recognition and treatment of advanced HF is another important aspect of this update, including how to select advanced therapies as well as end of life considerations. Finally, we acknowledge the remaining gaps in evidence that need to be filled by future research. labels: #Canada#Cardiology#Disease Management#Heart Failure#Humans#Societies, Medical'
b'BACKGROUND: Beginning in February 2012, there was a shortage of injectable furosemide in the province of Ontario, Canada. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of the furosemide shortage on heart failure outcomes in Ontario, Canada.METHODS: We determined which hospitals experienced a shortage of injectable furosemide using an online survey. We then used health administrative data to identify all patients who presented to those hospitals with congestive heart failure. Using 40 months of data from before the shortage, we determined the proportion of patients with heart failure expected to die each month. We then used time series analysis to forecast the 30-day mortality rate during the shortage period and compared it with the observed rate. Secondary outcomes included length of hospital stay, transfer to an intensive care unit, mechanical ventilation during the hospital stay, and risk of 30-day readmission for heart failure.RESULTS: Survey results were obtained for 82% of hospitals, 28 of which experienced a severe shortage of injectable furosemide in the year 2012. The 30-day mortality among patients presenting to these hospitals with congestive heart failure before the shortage period was 11.2%. We forecasted a mortality rate of 11.3% (95% confidence interval, 8.2-14.4) for the shortage period, which was not significantly different from the observed rate of 10.9%. Similarly, we found no significant effect of the shortage on secondary outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: A severe shortage of injectable furosemide did not increase the risk of adverse outcomes among patients who presented to the hospital with congestive heart failure. labels: #Diuretics#Female#Furosemide#Heart Failure#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Ontario#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate'
b'BACKGROUND: Studies examining treatment delay and survival after surgical treatment of colon cancer have varied in quality and outcome, with little evidence available regarding the safety of longer surgical treatment wait times.OBJECTIVE: Our study examined the effect of surgical treatment wait times on survival for patients with stage I to III colon cancer.DESIGN: A subset cohort analysis was performed using data from a prospectively maintained database.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a tertiary referral center.PATIENTS: Data on all of the patients undergoing elective surgery for stage I to III colon cancer from 2006 to 2015 were collected from a prospectively maintained clinical and administrative database.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We examined the impact of prolonged wait time to surgery on disease-free and overall survival. Patients were divided into 2 groups based on a treatment wait time of \xe2\x89\xa430 or>30 days and were compared using a Cox proportional hazards model. A subgroup analysis was performed using alternative treatment delay cutoffs of 60 and 90 days.RESULTS: There were 908 patients with stage I to III colon cancer treated over the study period, with a median treatment wait time of 38 days (interquartile range, 21-61 days); 368 patients were treated within 30 days, and 540 were treated beyond 30 days from diagnosis. In adjusted multivariate analysis, a treatment delay of>30 days was not associated with decreased disease-free survival (HR = 0.89 (95% CI, 0.61-1.3); p = 0.52) or overall survival (HR = 0.82 (95% CI, 0.63-1.1); p = 0.16). Likewise, subgroup analysis using alternative treatment delay cutoffs of 60 and 90 days did not demonstrate an adverse effect on survival.LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by retrospective analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Despite longer median treatment wait times from diagnosis to surgery, with the majority of patients exceeding 30 days and many experiencing delays of 2 to 3 months, no adverse impact on survival was observed. Patients who require additional consultations or investigations preoperatively may safely have their surgery moderately delayed to minimize their perioperative risk without any evidence that this will compromise treatment outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A397. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Appointments and Schedules#Colonic Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Ontario#Prospective Studies#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: A subset of patients with rectal cancer who undergo neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy will develop a complete pathologic tumor response. Complete nodal response is not universal in these patients and is difficult to assess clinically. Quantifying the risk of nodal disease would allow for targeted therapy with either radical resection or "watchful waiting."OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to identify risk factors for residual nodal disease in ypT0 rectal adenocarcinoma.DESIGN: This is a retrospective case control study.SETTINGS: The National Cancer Database 2006 to 2014 was used to identify patients for this study.PATIENTS: Patients with stage II/III rectal adenocarcinoma who completed chemoradiation therapy followed by resection and who had ypT0 tumors were included. Patients with metastatic disease and<2 lymph nodes evaluated were excluded. Patients were divided into 2 groups: node positive and node negative.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome was nodal disease. The secondary outcome was overall survival.RESULTS: A total of 42,257 patients with stage II/III rectal cancer underwent chemoradiation therapy and radical resection; 4170 (9.9%) patients had ypT0 tumors and 395 (9.5%) were node positive. Of patients with clinically node-negative disease (ie, pretreatment imaging), 6.2% were node positive after chemoradiation therapy and resection. In multivariable analysis, factors predictive of nodal disease included increasing (pretreatment) clinical N-stage, high tumor grade (3/4), perineural invasion, and lymphovascular invasion. Higher clinical T-stage was inversely associated with residual nodal disease. Overall 5-year survival was significantly different between patients with ypN0, ypN1, and ypN2 disease (87.4%, 82.2%, and 62.5%, p = 0.002).LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by the lack of clinical detail in the database and the inability to assess recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Ten percent of patients with ypT0 tumors had positive nodes after chemoradiation therapy and resection. Factors associated with residual nodal disease included clinical nodal disease at diagnosis and poor histologic features. Patients with any of these features should consider radical resection regardless of tumor response. Others could be suitable for "watchful waiting" strategies. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A458. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Case-Control Studies#Chemoradiotherapy#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Humans#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Neoplasm, Residual#Rectal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether traveling long distances to high-volume centers would compensate for travel burden among patients undergoing rectal cancer resection.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether operative volume outweighs the advantages of being treated locally by comparing the outcomes of patients with rectal cancer treated at local, low-volume centers versus far, high-volume centers.DESIGN: This was a population-based study.SETTINGS: The National Cancer Database was queried for patients with rectal cancer.PATIENTS: Patients with stage II or III rectal cancer who underwent surgical resection between 2006 and 2012 were included.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The outcomes of interest were margins, lymph node yield, receipt of neoadjuvant chemoradiation, adjuvant chemotherapy, readmission within 30 days, 30-day and 90-day mortality, and 5-year overall survival.RESULTS: A total of 18,605 patients met inclusion criteria; 2067 patients were in the long-distance/high-volume group and 1362 in the short-distance/low-volume group. The median travel distance was 62.6 miles for the long-distance/high-volume group and 2.3 miles for the short-distance/low-volume group. Patients who were younger, white, privately insured, and stage III were more likely to have traveled to a high-volume center. When controlled for patient factors, stage, and hospital factors, patients in the short-distance/low-volume group had lower odds of a lymph node yield \xe2\x89\xa512 (OR = 0.51) and neoadjuvant chemoradiation (OR = 0.67) and higher 30-day (OR = 3.38) and 90-day mortality (OR = 2.07) compared with those in the long-distance/high-volume group. The short-distance/low-volume group had a 34% high risk of overall mortality at 5 years compared with the long-distance/high-volume group.LIMITATIONS: We lacked data regarding patient and physician decision making and surgeon-specific factors.CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that when controlled for patient, tumor, and hospital factors, patients who traveled a long distance to a high-volume center had improved lymph node yield, neoadjuvant chemoradiation receipt, and 30- and 90-day mortality compared with those who traveled a short distance to a low-volume center. They also had improved 5-year survival. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A446. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenocarcinoma, Mucinous#Aged#Chemoradiotherapy#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Hospitals, High-Volume#Humans#Lymph Node Excision#Male#Margins of Excision#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Patient Readmission#Rectal Neoplasms#Risk Factors#Survival Rate#Travel#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Short-term results have shown that transanal total mesorectal excision is safe and effective for patients with mid to low rectal cancers. Transanal total mesorectal excision is considered technically challenging; thus, adoption has been limited to a few academic centers in the United States.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to describe outcomes after the initiation of a transanal total mesorectal excision program in the setting of an academic colorectal training program.DESIGN: This is a single-center retrospective review of consecutive patients who underwent transanal total mesorectal excision from December 2014 to August 2016.SETTING: This study was conducted at an academic center with a colorectal residency program.PATIENTS: Patients with benign and malignant diseases were selected.INTERVENTION: All transanal total mesorectal excisions were performed with abdominal and perineal teams working simultaneously.OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes measured were pathologic quality, length of hospital stay, 30-day morbidity, and 30-day mortality.RESULTS: There were 40 patients (24 male). The median age was 55 years (interquartile range, 46.7-63.4) with a median BMI of 29\xe2\x80\x89kg/m (interquartile range, 24.6-32.4). The primary indication was cancer (n = 30), and tumor height from the anal verge ranged from 0.5 to 15\xe2\x80\x89cm. Eighty percent (n = 24) of the patients who had rectal cancer received preoperative chemoradiation. The most common procedures were low anterior resection (67.5%), total proctocolectomy (15%), and abdominoperineal resection (12.5%). Median operative time was 380 minutes (interquartile range, 306-454.4), with no change over time. For patients with malignancy, the mesorectum was complete or nearly complete in 100% of the specimens. A median of 14 lymph nodes (interquartile range, 12-17) were harvested, and 100% of the rectal cancer specimens achieved R0 status. Median length of stay was 4.5 days (interquartile range, 4-7), and there were 6 readmissions (15%). There were no deaths or intraoperative complications.LIMITATIONS: This study's limitations derive from its retrospective nature and single-center location.CONCLUSIONS: A transanal total mesorectal excision program can be safely implemented in a major academic medical center. Quality outcomes and patient safety depend on a comprehensive training program and a coordinated team approach. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A448. labels: #Academic Medical Centers#Education, Medical, Graduate#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Internship and Residency#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Rectal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Transanal Endoscopic Surgery#United States"
b"BACKGROUND: The existing scores reflecting the patient's nutritional and inflammatory status do not include all biomarkers and have been poorly studied in colorectal cancers.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess a new prognostic tool, the Naples prognostic score, comparing it with the prognostic nutritional index, controlling nutritional status score, and systemic inflammation score.DESIGN: This was an analysis of patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a university hospital.PATIENTS: A total of 562 patients who underwent surgery for colorectal cancer in July 2004 through June 2014 and 468 patients undergoing potentially curative surgery were included. MaxStat analysis dichotomized neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio, lymphocyte:monocyte ratio, prognostic nutritional index, and the controlling nutritional status score. The Naples prognostic scores were divided into 3 groups (group 0, 1, and 2). The receiver operating characteristic curve for censored survival data compared the prognostic performance of the scoring systems.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Overall survival and complication rates in all patients, as well as recurrence and disease-free survival rates in radically resected patients, were measured.RESULTS: The Naples prognostic score correlated positively with the other scoring systems (p<0.001) and worsened with advanced tumor stages (p<0.001). Patients with the worst Naples prognostic score experienced more postoperative complications (all patients, p = 0.010; radically resected patients, p = 0.026). Compared with group 0, patients in groups 1 and 2 had worse overall (group 1, HR = 2.90; group 2, HR = 8.01; p<0.001) and disease-free survival rates (group 1, HR = 2.57; group 2, HR = 6.95; p<0.001). Only the Naples prognostic score was an independent significant predictor of overall (HR = 2.0; p = 0.03) and disease-free survival rates (HR = 2.6; p = 0.01). The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that the Naples prognostic score had the best prognostic performance and discriminatory power for overall (p = 0.02) and disease-free survival (p = 0.04).LIMITATIONS: This is a single-center study, and its validity needs additional external validation.CONCLUSIONS: The Naples prognostic score is a simple tool strongly associated with long-term outcome in patients undergoing surgery for colorectal cancer. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A469. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Hospitals, University#Humans#Inflammation#Italy#Lymph Node Excision#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#Nutritional Status#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: A Clostridium difficile-associated risk of death score was recently developed and validated by using a national cohort of both nonsurgical and surgical patients admitted with C difficile infection. However, risk scores specifically derived from surgical cohorts and designed for patients with C difficile infection are currently unavailable.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to develop a risk of death score for patients with C difficile infection who are being considered for total abdominal colectomy because of the failure of medical therapy.DESIGN: This is a retrospective cohort study.SETTINGS: This study was conducted with the use of a national database.PATIENTS: All patients undergoing total colectomy for C difficile infection were identified in the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database from 2005 to 2014.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Variables similar to the original scoring system were used in multivariable analyses to determine the risk of 30-day mortality for patients, and a model was constructed to estimate the predicted probability of mortality after surgery.RESULTS: Of 532 patients who underwent surgery, 32.7% experienced 30-day postoperative mortality. Patient covariates associated with significantly increased mortality included age greater than 80 years (OR 5.5, p = 0.003), need for preoperative mechanical ventilation (OR 3.1, p<0.001), chronic steroid use (OR 2.9, p<0.001), underlying cardiopulmonary disease (OR 2.0, p = 0.001), and acute renal failure (OR=1.7, p = 0.03). These and other comorbidities, including hepatic disease, a cancer diagnosis, and both insulin- and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, were used to construct a model to estimate the predicted probability of mortality, which ranged from 8.0% to 96.1% based on individual comorbidity profiles. These estimates differed substantially when compared with those obtained using the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program risk calculator, which estimated the risk of mortality among surgical patients as being consistently lower.LIMITATIONS: This study was limited by its retrospective design.CONCLUSIONS: Our surgical scoring system allows preoperative risk stratification for patients being evaluated for colectomy for C difficile infection, potentially helping to avoid futile surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A434. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Clostridium difficile#Colectomy#Comorbidity#Enterocolitis, Pseudomembranous#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Preoperative bowel preparation with or without oral antibiotics is controversial in terms of postoperative surgical site infections.OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of oral antibiotics as adjunct therapy to systemic antibiotics with mechanical bowel preparation for preventing surgical site infections in clean contaminated, contaminated, and dirty colorectal procedures.DESIGN: This was a single-center, prospective randomized study.SETTING: This study was conducted at the General Surgery Department at Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University, China, from July 15, 2014 to January 20, 2016.PATIENTS: Patients aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years scheduled for abdominal surgery with clean-contaminated, contaminated, and dirty wounds were selected.INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly assigned to receive preoperative mechanical bowel preparation or mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics.MAIN OUTCOMES: The primary outcome was the rate of surgical site infections. The secondary outcomes were extra-abdominal complications, duration of postoperative ileus, and readmission rate.RESULTS: Ninety-five patients were allocated to each group. Eight and 26 surgical site infections (8.42% vs 27.3 %, p = 0.004) occurred in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics and mechanical bowel preparation groups. Thirteen extra-abdominal complications were reported: 6 in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics group and 7 in the mechanical bowel preparation group (6.3% vs 7.3%, p = 0.77). Postoperative ileus duration did not differ between groups (p = 0.23). There were 4 readmissions in the mechanical bowel preparation group and none in the mechanical bowel preparation with oral antibiotics group (p = 0.04). On multivariable analysis, blood loss \xe2\x89\xa5500\xe2\x80\x89mL (OR, 5.1; 95% CI, 1.27-20.4; p = 0.02), ASA score \xe2\x89\xa53 (OR, 3.9; 95% CI, 1.2-12.5; p = 0.01), contaminated types (OR, 3.6; 95% CI, 1.5-8.6; p = 0.01), and administration of preoperative oral antibiotics (OR, 0.20; 95% CI, 0.06-0.60; p = 0.005) independently affected the incidence of surgical site infections.LIMITATIONS: This was a single-center study.CONCLUSION: Preoperative oral antibiotics, as adjunct therapy to systemic antibiotics and mechanical bowel preparation, significantly reduced surgical site infections and minimized the readmission rates in clean contaminated, contaminated, and dirty types of colorectal surgery. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A437. labels: #Administration, Oral#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Cathartics#China#Colorectal Surgery#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Preoperative Care#Prospective Studies#Surgical Wound Infection#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND: Approximately half of Crohn's patients require intestinal resection, and many need repeat resections.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the increased risk of clinical anastomotic leak in patients with a history of previous intestinal resection undergoing repeat resection with anastomosis for Crohn's disease.DESIGN: This was a retrospective analysis of prospectively collected departmental data with 100% capture.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at the department of colorectal surgery in a tertiary care teaching hospital between July 2007 and March 2016.PATIENTS: A cohort of consecutive patients with Crohn's disease who were treated with intestinal resection and anastomosis, excluding patients with proximal fecal diversion, were included. The cohort was divided into 2 groups, those with no previous resection compared with those with previous resection.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical anastomotic leak within 30 days of surgery was measured.RESULTS: Of the 206 patients who met criteria, 83 patients had previous intestinal resection (40%). The 2 groups were similar in terms of patient factors, immune-suppressing medication use, and procedural factors. Overall, 20 clinical anastomotic leaks were identified (10% leak rate). There were 6 leaks (5%) detected in patients with no previous intestinal resection and 14 leaks (17%) detected in patients with a history of previous intestinal resection (p<0.005). The OR of anastomotic leak in patients with Crohn's disease with previous resection compared with no previous resection was 3.5 (95% CI, 1.3-9.4). Patients with 1 previous resection (n = 53) had a leak rate of 13%, whereas patients with \xe2\x89\xa52 previous resections (n = 30) had a leak rate of 23%. The number of previous resections correlated with increasing risk for clinical anastomotic leak (correlation coefficient = 0.998).LIMITATIONS: This was a retrospective study with limited data to perform a multivariate analysis.CONCLUSIONS: Repeat intestinal resection in patients with Crohn's disease is associated with an increased rate of anastomotic leakage when compared with initial resection despite similar patient, medication, and procedural factors. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A459. labels: #Anastomotic Leak#Crohn Disease#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Reoperation#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors"
b"BACKGROUND: Defective cell-mediated immunity increases the risk of human papillomavirus-associated anal dysplasia and cancer. There is limited information on anal canal disease in patients with IBD.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess anal/vaginal human papillomavirus and anal dysplasia prevalence in patients with IBD.DESIGN: Patients had an anal examination before routine colonoscopy.SETTINGS: The study was conducted at a tertiary IBD referral center.PATIENTS: We studied a convenience sample of sexually active male and female patients with IBD who were not on biological therapy.INTERVENTION: Anal examination, anal and vaginal human papillomavirus testing, anal cytology, and high-resolution anoscopy/biopsy were carried out.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anal and vaginal human papillomavirus types, anal cytology, and biopsy grade were measured.RESULTS: Twenty-five male and 21 female evaluable participants, 31 with Crohn's disease, 14 with ulcerative colitis, and 1 with indeterminate colitis, were predominantly white (91.3%), treatment experienced (76.1%), an average age of 38.1 years (range, 22.0-66.0 y), and had an average length of IBD diagnosis of 9.3 years (range, 1.0-33.0 y). Eighteen (39.1%) had an abnormal perianal examination and 3 (6.5%) had an abnormal digital examination. Forty-one (89.1%) had anal human papillomavirus, 16 with a single type and 25 with multiple types (range, 2-5 types). Human papillomavirus type 16 was most common (65.2%), followed by human papillomavirus types 11 and 45 (37.0% each). Nineteen of 21 (90.5%) women had vaginal human papillomavirus. Overall, 21 (45.7%) had abnormal anal cytology. Thirty three (71.7%) had \xe2\x89\xa51 anal biopsy (9 had multiple), with dysplasia diagnosed in 28 (60.9%) and high-grade and low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions diagnosed in 4 (8.7%) and 24 (43.5%).LIMITATIONS: No control group was included, and no detailed sexual history was taken.CONCLUSIONS: A high prevalence of anal and vaginal human papillomavirus and anal dysplasia was demonstrated in the study population outcomes. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A379. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anus Diseases#Biopsy#Female#Humans#Inflammatory Bowel Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Papillomaviridae#Papillomavirus Infections#Pilot Projects#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Precancerous Conditions#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Vagina"
b'BACKGROUND: Decision-making for pulse generator implantation for sacral nerve stimulation in the management of fecal incontinence is based on the results of a test phase. Its duration is still a matter of debate.OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether an early positive response during the test phase could predict implantation of a permanent sacral nerve pulse generator.DESIGN: This was a short-term observational cohort study. A positive response was defined as a>50% decrease of fecal leaks compared with baseline. A multivariate logistic regression was computed to predict pulse generator implantation after the first week of the test phase.SETTINGS: The study was conducted in 3 national referral centers.PATIENTS: From January 2006 to December 2012, 144 patients with fecal incontinence enrolled in a prospectively maintained database completed a 2- to 3-week bowel diary, at baseline and during test phase.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the clinical decision to implant a pulse generator. The primary predictor was a calculated score including the number of leak episodes, bowel movements, and urgencies and the time to defer defecation expressed in minutes during the first screening test week.RESULTS: After the first, second and third week of the test phase, 81 (56%) of 144, 96 (67%) of 144, and 93 (70%) of 131 patients had a positive test. A permanent pulse generator was implanted in 114. Time to defer defecation increased during the 3 weeks of screening. Urgencies were unchanged. The computed score was predictive of a permanent pulse generator implantation (Se = 72.6% (95% CI, 59.8-83.1); Sp = 100% (95% CI, 78.2-100); c-index = 0.86 (95% CI, 0.78-0.94)).LIMITATIONS: No cost analysis or projection based on our proposal to reduce the test phase has been made.CONCLUSIONS: Permanent pulse generator implantation can be safely proposed early (1-week screening) to fast responders. Nonetheless, permanent implantation may be decided as well in patients exhibiting a delayed response. Whether a rapid response to sacral nerve stimulation could be predictive of a long-term response remains to be determined. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A452. labels: #Aged#Electric Stimulation Therapy#Fecal Incontinence#Female#Humans#Lumbosacral Plexus#Male#Middle Aged#Sacrum#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Regenerating muscle at a time remote from injury requires re-expression of cytokines to attract stem cells to start and sustain the process of repair.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to evaluate the sustainability of muscle regeneration after treatment with a nonviral plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1.DESIGN: This was a randomized study.SETTINGS: The study was conducted with animals in a single research facility.INTERVENTIONS: Fifty-six female age-/weight-matched Sprague-Dawley rats underwent excision of the ventral half of the anal sphincter complex. Three weeks later, rats were randomly allocated (n = 8) to one of the following groups: no treatment, 100 \xce\xbcg of plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally, local injection of plasmid and 8\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, and plasmid encoding stromal cell-derived factor 1 injected locally with injection of a gelatin scaffold mixed with bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anal manometry, histology, immunohistochemistrym and morphometry were performed 8 weeks after treatment. Protein expression of cytokines CXCR4 and Myf5 was investigated 1 week after treatment (n = 6 per group). ANOVA was used, with p<0.0083 indicating significant differences for anal manometry and p<0.05 for all other statistical analysis.RESULTS: Eight weeks after treatment, all of the groups receiving the plasmid had significantly higher anal pressures than controls and more organized muscle architecture in the region of the defect. Animals receiving plasmid alone had significantly greater muscle in the defect (p = 0.03) than either animals with injury alone (p = 0.02) or those receiving the plasmid, cells, and scaffold (p = 0.03). Both smooth and skeletal muscles were regenerated significantly more after plasmid treatment. There were no significant differences in the protein levels of CXCR4 or Myf5.LIMITATIONS: The study was limited by its small sample size and because stromal cell-derived factor 1 was not blocked.CONCLUSIONS: A plasmid expressing stromal cell-derived factor 1 may be sufficient to repair an injured anal sphincter even long after the injury and in the absence of mesenchymal stem cell or scaffold treatments. See Video Abstract at http://links.lww.com/DCR/A451. labels: #Anal Canal#Animals#Chemokine CXCL12#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Manometry#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscle, Smooth#Myogenic Regulatory Factor 5#Plasmids#Random Allocation#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Receptors, CXCR5#Regeneration'
b'Mid-exponential cultures of two traditional biotechnological yeast species, winery Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the less ethanol tolerant bottom-fermenting brewery Saccharomyces pastorianus, were exposed to different concentrations of added ethanol (3, 5 and 8%) The degree of ethanol-induced cell stress was assessed by measuring the cellular activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD), level of lipid peroxidation products, changes in cell lipid content and fatty acid profile. The resveratrol as an antioxidant was found to decrease the ethanol-induced rise of SOD activity and suppress the ethanol-induced decrease in cell lipids. A lower resveratrol concentration (0.5\xc2\xa0mg/l) even reduced the extent of lipid peroxidation in cells. Resveratrol also alleviated ethanol-induced changes in cell lipid composition in both species by strongly enhancing the proportion of saturated fatty acids and contributing thereby to membrane stabilization. Lower resveratrol concentrations could thus diminish the negative effects of ethanol stress on yeast cells and improve their physiological state. These effects may be utilized to enhance yeast vitality in high-ethanol-producing fermentations or to increase the number of yeast generations in brewery. labels: #Antioxidants#Ethanol#Fatty Acids#Lipid Metabolism#Lipid Peroxidation#Lipids#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Stilbenes#Stress, Physiological#Superoxide Dismutase#Wine'
b'The crude extract isolated from the visceral mass of Anadara granosa, an intertidal bivalve mollusc was tested for inhibitory activity against pathogenic bacteria of the shrimp and fish viz. Vibrio harveyi and Staphylococcus aureus respectively by agar well diffusion and contact bioautography methods. Maximum inhibitory activity was shown against V. harveyi by methanol and chloroform (9:1) extract. Twelve fractions (1-12) could be separated from the crude extract through column chromatography. Five out of twelve fractions (7, 8, 9, 10, and 11) showed antibacterial activity and they were further run on column chromatography for purity. The fraction no. 9 showed highest antibacterial activity among the five and was subjected to NMR for the proton, C13and H1-H1correlation, IR and mass spectral analysis for structural elucidation. Structure of the compound isolated from fraction no: 9 was determined as 1-(((2Z, 4Z)-dodeca-2,4-dienoyl)oxy)-3-hydroxypropan-2-yl tetradecanoate. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Arcidae#Artemia#Biological Factors#Methanol#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Staphylococcus aureus#Vibrio'
b'Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been widely used for wine fermentation and bio-fuels production. A S. cerevisiae strain Sc131 isolated from tropical fruit shows good fermentation properties and ethanol tolerance, exhibiting significant potential in Chinese bayberry wine fermentation. In this study, RNA-sequence and RT-qPCR was used to investigate the transcriptome profile of Sc131 in response to ethanol stress. Scanning Electron Microscopy were carried out to observe surface morphology of yeast cells. Totally, 937 genes were identified differential expressed, including 587 up-regulated and 350 down-regulated genes, after 4-h ethanol stress (10% v/v). Transcriptomic analysis revealed that, most genes involved in regulating filamentous growth or pseudohyphal growth were significantly up-regulated in response to ethanol stress. The complex protein quality control machineries, Hsp90/Hsp70 and Hsp104/Hsp70/Hsp40 based chaperone system combining with ubiquitin-proteasome proteolytic pathway were both activated to recognize and degrade misfolding proteins. Genes related to biosynthesis and metabolism of two well-known stress-responsive substances trehalose and ergosterol were generally up-regulated, while genes associated with amino acids biosynthesis and metabolism processes were differentially expressed. Moreover, thiamine was also important in response to ethanol stress. This research may promote the potential applications of Sc131 in the fermentation of Chinese bayberry wine. labels: #Amino Acids#Down-Regulation#Ergosterol#Ethanol#Fermentation#Gene Expression Profiling#Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex#Proteolysis#RNA#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Stress, Physiological#Transcriptome#Trehalose#Ubiquitin#Up-Regulation#Wine'
b'Over the past four decades we have witnessed great progress and increasing pregnancy success rates with in\xc2\xa0vitro fertilization. However, this apparent success has been accompanied by the burden of multiple pregnancies. While efforts to reduce the number of embryos transferred have had a salutary impact on the incidence of high order multiple pregnancies, twin gestations have not diminished significantly. Thus, the search for a marker of embryo quality with the goal of selecting the single best embryo for transfer continues to be the major challenge facing our field. The four contributions in this Views and Reviews present several contemporary approaches, both invasive and non-invasive, for evaluating embryo viability. Each group makes the case that recent techniques, including time-lapse microscopy, biomechanical markers for oocytes and embryos, novel non-invasive methods of evaluating embryo metabolism and function as well as measurement of mitochondrial DNA, will allow the identification of the single best embryo for transfer. They describe several promising markers of embryo viability, although the goal of finding the "holy grail" of embryo selection has not yet been realized. labels: #Biomarkers#Blastocyst#Cell Survival#DNA, Mitochondrial#Embryo Implantation#Female#Fertility#Fertilization in Vitro#Genetic Markers#Humans#Infertility#Microscopy#Predictive Value of Tests#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Pregnancy, Multiple#Single Embryo Transfer#Time-Lapse Imaging#Treatment Outcome'
b'Objectives: Transmission of polio poses a threat to military forces when deploying to regions where such viruses are endemic. US-born soldiers generally enter service with immunity resulting from childhood immunization against polio; moreover, new recruits are routinely vaccinated with inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV), supplemented based upon deployment circumstances. Given residual protection from childhood vaccination, risk-based vaccination may sufficiently protect troops from polio transmission.Methods: This analysis employed a mathematical system for polio transmission within military populations interacting with locals in a polio-endemic region to evaluate changes in vaccination policy.Results: Removal of blanket immunization had no effect on simulated polio incidence among deployed military populations when risk-based immunization was employed; however, when these individuals reintegrated with their base populations, risk of transmission to nondeployed personnel increased by 19%. In the absence of both blanket- and risk-based immunization, transmission to nondeployed populations increased by 25%. The overall number of new infections among nondeployed populations was negligible for both scenarios due to high childhood immunization rates, partial protection against transmission conferred by IPV, and low global disease incidence levels.Conclusion: Risk-based immunization driven by deployment to polio-endemic regions is sufficient to prevent transmission among both deployed and nondeployed US military populations. labels: #Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Humans#Immunization Programs#Incidence#Mathematical Concepts#Military Personnel#Models, Biological#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus Vaccine, Inactivated#Risk Factors#United States'
b'Besides the influenza virus (IV), several other viruses are responsible for influenza-like illness (ILI). Although human parechoviruses (HPeVs) and enteroviruses (EVs) may impact on ILI, limited data on their epidemiological characteristics are available. During seven consecutive winter seasons (from 2010-2011 to 2016-2017), within the framework of an influenza surveillance system (InfluNet), 593 respiratory swabs were collected from children \xe2\x89\xa45\xe2\x80\x89years of age with ILIs. Molecular detection showed that 58.3\xe2\x80\x8a% of swabs were positive for at least one of the viruses under study: 46\xe2\x80\x8a% for IV, 13\xe2\x80\x8a% for EV and 5.4\xe2\x80\x8a% for HPeV. A single virus was identified in 51.3\xe2\x80\x8a% of samples while more than one virus was detected in 7\xe2\x80\x8a% of the samples. The risk of contracting IV was higher than the risk associated with EV, which in turn was higher than the risk of contracting HPeV. The risk of developing an IV infection was twofold greater in children>3\xe2\x80\x89years than in those \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x89years, who had higher risk of EV/HPeV infection. The frequency of EV/HPeV-positive swabs increased significantly during the 2016-2017 winter season compared to the previous six seasons. Sixteen EV genotypes were identified belonging to species A and B. HPeV-1 was the most frequently detected genotype, followed by -6 and -3. In this study, IV was mainly responsible for ILI, however EV and HPeV were also involved and particularly affected children \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x89years of age. Influenza surveillance samples could provide us with valuable insight into the epidemiological features of viruses involved in ILI. labels: #Child#Enterovirus#Genetic Variation#Humans#Italy#Molecular Epidemiology#Orthomyxoviridae#Parechovirus#Prevalence#Respiratory Tract Infections'
b"Objectives: Recent commercialization of methods for in situ hybridization using Z-pair probe/branched DNA amplification has led to increasing adoption of this technology for interrogating RNA expression in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues. Current practice for FFPE block storage is to maintain them at room temperature, often for many years.Methods: To examine the effects of block storage time on FFPE tissues using a number of RNA in situ probes with the Advanced Cellular Diagnostic's RNAscope assay.Results: We report marked reductions in signals after 5 years and significant reductions often after 1 year. Furthermore, storing unstained slides cut from recent cases (<1 year old) at -20\xc2\xb0C can preserve hybridization signals significantly better than storing the blocks at room temperature and cutting the slides fresh when needed.Conclusions: We submit that the standard practice of storing FFPE tissue blocks at room temperature should be reevaluated to better preserve RNA for in situ hybridization. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Neoplasm#Cold Temperature#Cryopreservation#Humans#In Situ Hybridization#Male#Mice#Paraffin Embedding#Prostatic Neoplasms#RNA#Tissue Array Analysis#Tissue Fixation"
b'Objectives: We sought to test recent guidelines for preserving immunoreactivity of precut slides, to quantify loss of immunoreactivity, and to determine potential for preservation by altering storage conditions.Methods: Precut slides from tissue microarrays were stored under one of several conditions: exposed to ambient air at room temperature, 4\xc2\xb0C, or -20\xc2\xb0C or in a vacuum-sealed container at room temperature, -20\xc2\xb0C, -80\xc2\xb0C, or with paraffin coating. At multiple intervals over 1 year, slides were stained with antibodies against p53, isocitrate dehydrogenase 1, Ki-67, synaptophysin, and androgen receptor and evaluated.Results: Compared with time 0, the overall median percentage immunoreactivity was 66% at 6 months and 51% at 1 year. During the experiment, this was as low as 55% for precut slides stored in paraffin coating and up to 87% for those stored at -20\xc2\xb0C. Vacuum sealing was an effective preservative for some antibody targets and detrimental for others. Storage at -80\xc2\xb0C did not have added value.Conclusions: For precut slides, there is a time, storage condition, and antibody-dependent loss of immunoreactivity that could compromise analysis of prognostic, predictive, and diagnostic markers. Our findings support previous recommendations and suggest that the best storage conditions are at -20\xc2\xb0C, without paraffin coating or vacuum sealing. labels: #Epitopes#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Longitudinal Studies#Neoplasms#Paraffin Embedding#Prospective Studies#Specimen Handling#Time Factors#Tissue Array Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of operating room headgear in preventing airborne contamination has been called into question. We hypothesized that bouffant style hats would be as effective in preventing bacterial and particulate contamination in the operating room compared with disposable or cloth skull caps, and bouffant style hats would have similar permeability, particle penetration, and porosity compared with skull caps.STUDY DESIGN: Disposable bouffant and skull cap hats and newly laundered cloth skull caps were tested. A mock surgical procedure was used in a dynamic operating room environment. Airborne particulate and microbial contaminants were sampled. Hat fabric was tested for permeability, particle transmission, and pore sizes.RESULTS: No significant differences were observed between disposable bouffant and disposable skull caps with regard to particle or actively sampled microbial contamination. However, when compared with disposable skull caps, disposable bouffant hats did have significantly higher microbial shed at the sterile field, as measured by passive settle plate analysis (p<0.05). When compared with cloth skull caps, disposable bouffants yielded higher levels of 0.5 \xce\xbcm and 1.0 \xce\xbcm particles and significantly higher microbial shed detected with passive analysis. Fabric assessment determined that disposable bouffant hats had larger average and maximum pore sizes compared with cloth skull caps, and were significantly more permeable than either disposable or cloth skull caps.CONCLUSIONS: Disposable bouffant hats had greater permeability, penetration, and greater microbial shed, as assessed by passive microbial analysis compared with disposable skull caps. When compared with cloth skull caps, disposable bouffants yielded greater permeability, greater particulate contamination, and greater passive microbial shed. Disposable style bouffant hats should not be considered superior to skull caps in preventing airborne contamination in the operating room. labels: #Disposable Equipment#Environment, Controlled#Humans#Operating Rooms#Textiles'
b'With ongoing resistance problems against the marketed EGFR inhibitors having a quinazoline core scaffold there is a need for the development of novel inhibitors having a modified scaffold and, thus, expected lower EGFR resistance problems. An additional problem concerning EGFR inhibitor resistance is an observed heterodimerization of EGFR with PDGFR-\xce\xb2 that neutralises the sole inhibitor activity towards EGFR. We developed novel pyrimido[4,5-b]indoles with varied substitution patterns at the 4-anilino residue to evaluate their EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 inhibiting properties. We identified dual inhibitors of both EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 in the nanomolar range which have been initially screened in cancer cell lines to prove a benefit of both EGFR and PDGFR-\xce\xb2 inhibition. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Discovery#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Humans#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptor, Platelet-Derived Growth Factor beta#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'In search of new non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) with improved solubility, two series of novel diaryl ethers with phenacyl moiety were designed and evaluated for their HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibition potentials. All compounds exhibited good to excellent results with IC50at low micromolar to submicromolar concentrations. Two most active compounds (7e and 7\xe2\x80\x89g) exhibit inhibitory potency comparable or even better than that of nevirapine and rilpivirine. Furthermore, SupT1 and CD4+cell infectivity assays for the most promising (7e) have confirmed its strong antiviral potential while docking studies indicate a novel binding interactions responsible for high activity. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Catechols#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Design#Ethers#HIV Reverse Transcriptase#HIV-1#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Resorcinols#Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors#Solubility#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'The \xce\xb2-class carbonic anhydrase (CA, EC 4.2.1.1) from the pathogenic bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei, BpsCA\xce\xb2, that is responsible for the tropical disease melioidosis was investigated for its activation with natural and non-natural amino acids and amines. Previously, the \xce\xb3-CA from this bacterium has been investigated with the same library of 19 amines/amino acids, which show very potent activating effects on both enzymes. The most effective BpsCA\xce\xb2 activators were L- and D-DOPA, L- and D-Trp, L-Tyr, 4-amino-L-Phe, histamine, dopamine, serotonin, 2-pyridyl-methylamine, 1-(2-aminoethyl)-piperazine and L-adrenaline with KAs of 0.9-27\xe2\x80\x89nM. Less effective activators were D-His, L- and D-Phe, D-Tyr, 2-(2-aminoethyl)pyridine and 4-(2-aminoethyl)-morpholine with KAs of 73\xe2\x80\x89nM-3.42\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M. The activation of CAs from bacteria, such as BpsCA\xce\xb3/\xce\xb2, has not been considered previously for possible biomedical applications. It would be of interest to perform studies in which bacteria are cultivated in the presence of CA activators, which may contribute to understanding processes connected with the virulence and colonization of the host by pathogenic bacteria. labels: #Amines#Amino Acids#Burkholderia pseudomallei#Carbonic Anhydrases#Molecular Structure'
b'In our present research, we synthesised new thiazolidine-2,4-diones (12-28). All the newly synthesised compounds were evaluated for antiproliferative and antibacterial activity. Antiproliferative evaluation was carried out using normal human skin fibroblasts and tumour cell lines: A549, HepG2, and MCF-7. The IC50values were determined for tested compounds revealing antiproliferative activity. Moreover, safety index (SI) was calculated. Among all tested derivatives, the compound 18 revealed the highest antiproliferative activity against human lung, breast, and liver cancer cells. More importantly, the derivative 18 showed meaningfully lower IC50values when compared to the reference substance, irinotecan, and relatively high SI values. Moreover, newly synthesised compounds were screened for the bacteria growth inhibition in vitro. According to our screening results, most active compound was the derivative 18 against Gram-positive bacteria. Therefore, it may be implied that the novel compound 18 appears to be a very promising agent for anticancer treatment. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gram-Negative Bacteria#Gram-Positive Bacteria#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thiazolidinediones'
b'A series of 2-amino-5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones were designed, synthesised and investigated for MAO and ChE inhibition properties. Most of the compounds showed preferential inhibition towards MAO-B. Compound 4, (1-(1-(4-Bromophenyl)ethylidene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide) emerged as lead candidate (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.212\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, SI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89331.04) against MAO-B; whereas compounds 21 1-(5-Bromo-2-oxoindolin-3-ylidene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.264\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M) and 17 1-((4-Chlorophenyl) (phenyl)methylene)-4-(5-nitrothiazol-2-yl)semicarbazide (IC50\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.024\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M) emerged as lead AChE and BuChE inhibitors respectively; with activity of compound 21 almost equivalent to tacrine. Kinetic studies indicated that compound 4 exhibited competitive and reversible MAO-B inhibition while compounds 21 and 17 showed mixed-type of AChE and BuChE inhibition respectively. Docking studies revealed that these compounds were well-accommodated within MAO-B and ChE active sites through stable hydrogen bonding and/or hydrophobic interactions. This study revealed the requirement of small heteroaryl ring at amino terminal of semicarbazone template for preferential inhibition and selectivity towards MAO-B. Our results suggest that 5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones could be further exploited for its multi-targeted role in development of anti-neurodegenerative agents. [Formula: see text] A library of 2-amino-5-nitrothiazole derived semicarbazones (4-21) was designed, synthesised and evaluated for in vitro MAO and ChE inhibitory activity. Compounds 4, 21 and 17 (shown) have emerged as lead MAO-B (IC50:0.212\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, competitive and reversible), AChE (IC50:0.264\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, mixed and reversible) and BuChE (IC50:0.024\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M, mixed and reversible) inhibitor respectively. SAR studies disclosed several structural aspects significant for potency and selectivity and indicated the role of size of aryl binding site in potency and selectivity towards MAO-B. Antioxidant activity and neurotoxicity screening results further suggested their multifunctional potential for the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases. labels: #Acetylcholinesterase#Animals#Binding Sites#Brain#Cholinesterase Inhibitors#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Design#Mitochondria#Molecular Structure#Monoamine Oxidase#Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors#Particle Size#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Semicarbazones#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thiazoles'
b'Targeting EGFR has proven to be beneficial in the treatment of several types of solid tumours. So, a series of novel 2-(4-oxo-3-(4-sulfamoylphenyl)-3,4-dihydrobenzo[g]quinazolin-2-ylthio)-N-substituted acetamide 5-19 were synthesised from the starting material 4-(2-mercapto-4-oxobenzo[g]quinazolin-3(4H)-yl) benzenesulfonamide 4, to be evaluated as dual EGFR/HER2 inhibitors. The target compounds 5-19, were screened for their cytotoxic activity against A549 lung cancer cell line. The percentage inhibition of EGFR enzyme was measured and compared with erlotinib as the reference drug. Compounds 6, 8, 10, and 16 showed excellent EGFR inhibitory activity and were further selected for screening as dual EGFR/HER2 inhibitors. The four selected compounds showed IC50ranging from 0.009 to 0.026\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for EGFR and 0.021 to 0.069\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for the HER2 enzyme. Compound 8 was found to be the most potent in this study with IC500.009 and 0.021\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb5M for EGFR and HER2, respectively. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Humans#Molecular Structure#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Quinazolines#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'The \xce\xb2-carbonic anhydrases (CAs, EC 4.2.1.1) from the pathogenic bacterium Clostridium perfringens (CpeCA) was recently characterised kinetically and for its anion inhibition profile. In the search of effective CpeCA inhibitors, possibly useful to inhibit the growth/pathogenicity of this bacterium, we report here an inhibition study of this enzyme with a panel of aromatic, heterocyclic and sugar sulphonamides/sulphamates. Some sulphonamides, such as acetazolamide, ethoxzolamide, dichlorophenamide, dorzolamide, sulthiame and 4-(2-hydroxymethyl-4-nitrophenyl-sulphonamido)ethylbenzenesulphonamide were effective CpeCA inhibitors, with KIs in the range of 37.4-71.6\xe2\x80\x89nM. Zonisamide and saccharin were the least effective such inhibitors, whereas many other aromatic and heterocyclic sulphonamides were moderate - weak inhibitors with KIs ranging between 113 and 8755\xe2\x80\x89nM. Thus, this study provides the basis for developing better clostridial enzyme inhibitors with potential as antiinfectives with a new mechanism of action. labels: #Carbonic Anhydrase Inhibitors#Carbonic Anhydrases#Clostridium perfringens#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Molecular Structure#Structure-Activity Relationship#Sulfonamides'
b'BACKGROUND: Post-market surveillance is needed to evaluate the real-world clinical effectiveness and safety of U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved devices.OBJECTIVES: The authors examined the commercial experience with transcatheter mitral valve repair for the treatment of mitral regurgitation.METHODS: Data from the Society of Thoracic Surgery/American College of Cardiology Transcatheter Valve Therapy Registry on patients commercially treated with transcatheter mitral valve repair were analyzed. The study population consisted of 2,952 patients treated at 145 hospitals between November 2013 and September 2015. In 1,867 patients, data were linked to patient-specific Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services administrative claims for analyses.RESULTS: The median age was 82 years (55.8% men), with a median Society of Thoracic Surgery predicted risk of mortality of 6.1% (interquartile range: 3.7% to 9.9%) and 9.2% (interquartile range: 6.0% to 14.1%) for mitral repair and replacement, respectively. Overall, in-hospital mortality was 2.7%. Acute procedure success occurred in 91.8%. Among the patients with Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services linkage data, the mortality at 30\xc2\xa0days and at 1 year was 5.2% and 25.8%, respectively, and repeat hospitalization for heart failure at 1 year occurred in 20.2%. Variables associated with mortality or rehospitalization for heart failure after multivariate adjustment were increasing age, lower baseline left ventricular ejection fraction, worse post-procedural mitral regurgitation, moderate or severe lung disease, dialysis, and severe tricuspid regurgitation.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that commercial transcatheter mitral valve repair is being performed in the\xc2\xa0United States with acute effectiveness and safety. Our findings may help determine which patients have favorable long-term outcomes with this therapy. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiology#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mortality#Registries#Research Report#Societies, Medical#Thoracic Surgery#Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Very late scaffold thrombosis (VLScT) occurs more frequently after bioresorbable scaffold (Absorb BVS\xc2\xa01.1, Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, California) implantation than with metallic everolimus-eluting stents.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to elucidate mechanisms underlying VLScT as assessed by optical coherence tomography (OCT).METHODS: The INVEST (Independent OCT Registry on Very Late Bioresorbable Scaffold Thrombosis) registry is an international consortium of investigators who used OCT to examine patients with VLScT.RESULTS: Between June 2013 and May 2017, 36 patients with 38 lesions who had VLScT underwent OCT at 19 centers. VLScT occurred at a median of 20\xc2\xa0months (interquartile range: 16 to 27\xc2\xa0months) after implantation. At the time of VLScT, 83% of patients received aspirin monotherapy and 17% received dual-antiplatelet therapy. The mechanisms underlying VLScT were (in descending order) scaffold discontinuity (42.1%), malapposition (18.4%), neoatherosclerosis (18.4%), underexpansion or scaffold recoil (10.5%), uncovered struts (5.3%), and edge-related disease progression (2.6%). Discontinuity (odds ratio [OR]: 110; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 73.5 to 173; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), malapposed struts (OR: 17.0; 95% CI: 14.8 to 19.7; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), and uncovered struts (OR: 7.3; 95% CI: 6.2 to 8.8; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) were more frequent in the thrombosed than the nonthrombosed scaffold regions. In 2 of 16 patients with scaffold discontinuity, intercurrent OCT before VLScT provided evidence of circularly apposed scaffold struts with minimal tissue coverage.CONCLUSIONS: The leading mechanism underlying VLScT was scaffold discontinuity, which suggests an unfavorable resorption-related process, followed by malapposition and neoatherosclerosis. It remains to be determined whether modifications in scaffold design and optimized implantation can mitigate the risk of VLScT. (Independent OCT Registry on Very Late Bioresorbable Scaffold Thrombosis [INVEST]; NCT03180931). labels: #Absorbable Implants#Adult#Coronary Thrombosis#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Registries#Tissue Scaffolds#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'BACKGROUND: Coronary vasomotor dysfunction is an important mechanism for angina in patients with unobstructed coronary arteries.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine sex differences in the prevalence and clinical presentation of vasomotor dysfunction in a European population and to examine sex differences in the dose of acetylcholine leading to a positive acetylcholine provocation test (ACH test).METHODS: Between 2007 and 2014, we included 1,379 consecutive patients with stable angina, unobstructed coronaries and ACH test performed for epicardial vasospasm or coronary microvascular dysfunction (CMD) due to microvascular spasm. The predictive value of sex, risk factors, symptoms, and noninvasive test results was analyzed by means of logistic regression.RESULTS: The mean patient age was 62 years, and 42% were male. There were 813 patients (59%) with a pathological ACH test, 33% for CMD and 26% for epicardial vasospasm. A pathological test was more common in females (70% vs. 43%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001). In a multivariable logistic regression model the sex difference was statistically significant with a female-male odds ratio for CMD and epicardial vasospasm of 4.2 (95% confidence interval: 3.1 to 5.5; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) and 2.3\xc2\xa0(95% confidence interval: 1.7 to 3.1; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), respectively. Effort-related symptoms, but neither risk factors nor noninvasive stress tests, contributed to predicting a pathological test. Female patients were more sensitive to acetylcholine with vasomotor dysfunction occurring at lower ACH doses compared with male patients.CONCLUSIONS: Vasomotor dysfunction is frequent in patients with angina and unobstructed coronaries in a European population. Female patients have a higher prevalence of vasomotor dysfunction (especially CMD) compared with male\xc2\xa0patients. A pathological ACH test was observed at lower ACH doses in women compared with men. labels: #Acetylcholine#Aged#Angina Pectoris#Coronary Vasospasm#Coronary Vessels#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Europe#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sex Characteristics#Vasodilator Agents#Vasomotor System'
b'BACKGROUND: Eosinophilic myocarditis (EM) is an acute life-threatening inflammatory disease of the heart. Neither large case series nor clinical trials on this specific myocarditis have been reported.OBJECTIVES: Based on a systematic revision of all published histologically proven cases, this study aimed to describe the clinical presentation, treatment, and outcome of EM.METHODS: The study screened 443 manuscripts in MEDLINE and EMBASE on cases of EM published until June 2017. The\xc2\xa0authors identified 264 patients and included in the main analysis 179 patients admitted to hospital with histologically\xc2\xa0proven EM.RESULTS: Median age was 41 years (interquartile range: 27 to 53 years) with similar prevalence in both sexes; pediatric\xc2\xa0cases (\xe2\x89\xa416 years of age) accounted for 10.1%. The main symptom at presentation was dyspnea (59.4%), with\xc2\xa0peripheral eosinophilia observed in 75.9%. Median left ventricular ejection fraction at presentation was 35% (interquartile range: 25% to 50%). The disorders most frequently associated with EM were hypersensitivity and\xc2\xa0eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, which accounted for 34.1% and 12.8% of cases, respectively, whereas\xc2\xa0idiopathic or undefined forms accounted for 35.7% of cases. Steroids were administered in 77.7% of patients. A\xc2\xa0temporary mechanical circulatory support (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa030) was instituted in 16.8% of patients. In-hospital death was 22.3%\xc2\xa0(n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa040), with the highest occurrence in the hypersensitivity form (36.1%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.026).CONCLUSIONS: EM has a poor prognosis during the acute phase, despite a publication bias that could have led to an\xc2\xa0overestimation of mortality. Associated conditions are identified in approximately 65% of cases. Specific trials and\xc2\xa0multicenter registries are needed to provide evidence-based treatments to improve in-hospital outcome. labels: #Adult#Coronary Angiography#Eosinophilia#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocarditis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Several clinical studies have evaluated the association between ST2 and outcome in patients with heart failure (HF). However, little is known about the predictive value of frequently measured ST2 levels in patients with acute HF.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to describe the prognostic value of baseline and repeated ST2 measurements in patients\xc2\xa0with acute HF.METHODS: In the TRIUMPH (Translational Initiative on Unique and novel strategies for Management of Patients with Heart failure) clinical cohort study, 496 patients with acute HF were enrolled in 14 hospitals in the Netherlands between 2009 and 2014. Repeated blood samples (7) were drawn during 1-year follow-up. ST2 and N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) levels were measured in a central laboratory. The primary endpoint was the composite of all-cause mortality and HF rehospitalization. Associations between repeated biomarker measurements and the primary endpoint were assessed using a joint model.RESULTS: Median age was 74 years, and 37% of patients were women. The primary endpoint was reached in 188 patients\xc2\xa0(40%) during a median follow-up of 325\xc2\xa0days (interquartile range: 85 to 401). The median baseline ST2 level was 71\xc2\xa0ng/ml (interquartile range: 46 to 102). After adjustment for clinical factors and NT-proBNP, baseline ST2 was associated with an increased risk of the primary endpoint, and the hazard ratio per 1 SD increase of the baseline ST2 level (on the log2scale) was 1.30 (95% confidence interval: 1.08 to 1.56; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.005). When repeated measurements were taken into account, the adjusted hazard ratio per 1 SD increase of the ST2 level (on the log2scale) during follow-up increased to 1.85 (95%\xc2\xa0confidence interval: 1.02 to 3.33; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.044), adjusted for clinical factors and repeated measurements\xc2\xa0of NT-proBNP. Furthermore, ST2 levels appeared to elevate several weeks before the time of the primary\xc2\xa0endpoint.CONCLUSIONS: Repeated ST2 measurements appeared to be a strong predictor of outcome in patients with acute HF, independent of repeatedly measured NT-proBNP. Hence ST2 may be helpful in clinical practice for prognostication and\xc2\xa0treatment monitoring. (TRanslational Initiative on Unique and novel strategies for Management of Patients with\xc2\xa0Heart failure [TRIUMPH]; NTR1893). labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Biomarkers#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Failure#Humans#Interleukin-1 Receptor-Like 1 Protein#Male#Netherlands#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Translational Medical Research'
b'BACKGROUND: Recently, a new ablation strategy for atrial fibrillation has emerged, which involves the identification of rotors (ie, local drivers) followed by the localized targeting of their core region by ablation. However, this concept has been subject to debate because the mode of arrhythmia termination remains poorly understood, as dedicated models and research tools are lacking. We took a unique optogenetic approach to induce and locally target a rotor in atrial monolayers.METHODS AND RESULTS: Neonatal rat atrial cardiomyocyte monolayers expressing a depolarizing light-gated ion channel (Ca2+-translocating channelrhodopsin) were subjected to patterned illumination to induce single, stable, and centralized rotors by optical S1-S2 cross-field stimulation. Next, the core region of these rotors was specifically and precisely targeted by light to induce local conduction blocks of circular or linear shapes. Conduction blocks crossing the core region, but not reaching any unexcitable boundary, did not lead to termination. Instead, electric waves started to propagate along the circumference of block, thereby maintaining reentrant activity, although of lower frequency. If, however, core-spanning lines of block reached at least 1 unexcitable boundary, reentrant activity was consistently terminated by wave collision. Lines of block away from the core region resulted merely in rotor destabilization (ie, drifting).CONCLUSIONS: Localized optogenetic targeting of rotors in atrial monolayers could lead to both stabilization and destabilization of reentrant activity. For termination, however, a line of block is required reaching from the core region to at least 1 unexcitable boundary. These findings may improve our understanding of the mechanisms involved in rotor-guided ablation. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Atrial Fibrillation#Calcium Channels#Catheter Ablation#Cells, Cultured#Heart Atria#Heart Rate#Myocytes, Cardiac#Optogenetics#Rats, Wistar#Rhodopsin#Time Factors#Transfection'
b'Oral squamous cell carcinoma is one of the most malignant tumors with high mortality rate worldwide. Biomarker discovery is critical for early diagnosis and precision treatment of this disease. MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNA molecules which often regulate essential biological processes and are good candidates for biomarkers. By integrative analysis of both the cancer-associated gene expression data and microRNA-mRNA network, miR-148b-3p, miR-629-3p, miR-27a-3p, and miR-142-3p were screened as novel diagnostic biomarkers for oral squamous cell carcinoma based on their unique regulatory abilities in the network structure of the conditional microRNA-mRNA network and their important functions. These findings were confirmed by literature verification and functional enrichment analysis. Future experimental validation is expected for the further investigation of their molecular mechanisms. labels: #Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Computational Biology#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Regulatory Networks#Humans#MicroRNAs#Models, Genetic#Mouth Neoplasms#RNA, Messenger'
b'The introduction of forensic autosomal DNA profiles was controversial, but the problems were successfully addressed, and DNA profiling has gone on to revolutionise forensic science. Y-chromosome profiles are valuable when there is a mixture of male-source and female-source DNA, and interest centres on the identity of the male source(s) of the DNA. The problem of evaluating evidential weight is even more challenging for Y profiles than for autosomal profiles. Numerous approaches have been proposed, but they fail to deal adequately with the fact that men with matching Y-profiles are related in extended patrilineal clans, many of which may not be represented in available databases. The higher mutation rates of modern profiling kits have led to increased discriminatory power but they have also exacerbated the problem of fairly conveying evidential value. Because the relevant population is difficult to define, yet the number of matching relatives is fixed as population size varies, it is typically infeasible to derive population-based match probabilities relevant to a specific crime. We propose a conceptually simple solution, based on a simulation model and software to approximate the distribution of the number of males with a matching Y profile. We show that this distribution is robust to different values for the variance in reproductive success and the population growth rate. We also use importance sampling reweighting to derive the distribution of the number of matching males conditional on a database frequency, finding that this conditioning typically has only a modest impact. We illustrate the use of our approach to quantify the value of Y profile evidence for a court in a way that is both scientifically valid and easily comprehensible by a judge or juror. labels: #Chromosomes, Human, Y#DNA#DNA Fingerprinting#Forensic Genetics#Humans#Male#Probability#Reproduction#Software'
b'Short tandem repeats (STRs) are hyper-mutable sequences in the human genome. They are often used in forensics and population genetics and are also the underlying cause of many genetic diseases. There are challenges associated with accurately determining the length polymorphism of STR loci in the genome by next-generation sequencing (NGS). In particular, accurate detection of pathological STR expansion is limited by the sequence read length during whole-genome analysis. We developed TREDPARSE, a software package that incorporates various cues from read alignment and paired-end distance distribution, as well as a sequence stutter model, in a probabilistic framework to infer repeat sizes for genetic loci, and we used this software to infer repeat sizes for 30 known disease loci. Using simulated data, we show that TREDPARSE outperforms other available software. We sampled the full genome sequences of 12,632 individuals to an average read depth of approximately 30\xc3\x97 to 40\xc3\x97 with Illumina HiSeq X. We identified 138 individuals with risk alleles at 15 STR disease loci. We validated a representative subset of the samples (n = 19) by Sanger and by Oxford Nanopore sequencing. Additionally, we validated the STR calls against known allele sizes in a set of GeT-RM reference cell-line materials (n = 6). Several STR loci that are entirely guanine or cytosines (G or C) have insufficient read evidence for inference and therefore could not be assayed precisely by TREDPARSE. TREDPARSE extends the limit of STR size detection beyond the physical sequence read length. This extension is critical because many of the disease risk cutoffs are close to or beyond the short sequence read length of 100 to 150 bases. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Alleles#Child#Female#Genetics, Population#Genome, Human#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Male#Microsatellite Repeats#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Genetic#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Software'
b'Developmental and epileptic encephalopathy (DEE) is a group of conditions characterized by the co-occurrence of epilepsy and intellectual disability (ID), typically with developmental plateauing or regression associated with frequent epileptiform activity. The cause of DEE remains unknown in the majority of cases. We performed whole-genome sequencing (WGS) in 197 individuals with unexplained DEE and pharmaco-resistant seizures and in their unaffected parents. We focused our attention on de novo mutations (DNMs) and identified candidate genes containing such variants. We sought to identify additional subjects with DNMs in these genes by performing targeted sequencing in another series of individuals with DEE and by mining various sequencing datasets. We also performed meta-analyses to document enrichment of DNMs in candidate genes by leveraging our WGS dataset with those of several DEE and ID series. By combining these strategies, we were able to provide a causal link between DEE and the following genes: NTRK2, GABRB2, CLTC, DHDDS, NUS1, RAB11A, GABBR2, and SNAP25. Overall, we established a molecular diagnosis in 63/197 (32%) individuals in our WGS series. The main cause of DEE in these individuals was de novo point mutations (53/63 solved cases), followed by inherited mutations (6/63 solved cases) and de novo CNVs (4/63 solved cases). De novo missense variants explained a larger proportion of individuals in our series than in other series that were primarily ascertained because of ID. Moreover, these DNMs were more frequently recurrent than those identified in ID series. These observations indicate that the genetic landscape of DEE might be different from that of ID without epilepsy. labels: #Brain Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Epilepsy#Female#Genome, Human#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation#Recurrence#Seizures'
b'DHX30 is a member of the family of DExH-box helicases, which use ATP hydrolysis to unwind RNA secondary structures. Here we identified six different de novo missense mutations in DHX30 in twelve unrelated individuals affected by global developmental delay (GDD), intellectual disability (ID), severe speech impairment and gait abnormalities. While four mutations are recurrent, two are unique with one affecting the codon of one recurrent mutation. All amino acid changes are located within highly conserved helicase motifs and were found to either impair ATPase activity or RNA recognition in different in\xc2\xa0vitro assays. Moreover, protein variants exhibit an increased propensity to trigger stress granule (SG) formation resulting in global translation inhibition. Thus, our findings highlight the prominent role of translation control in development and function of the central nervous system and also provide molecular insight into how DHX30 dysfunction might cause a neurodevelopmental disorder. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Adolescent#Amino Acids#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Central Nervous System#Child#Child, Preschool#Developmental Disabilities#Female#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation, Missense#RNA#RNA Helicases'
b'The transatlantic slave trade was the largest forced migration in world history. However, the origins of the enslaved Africans and their admixture dynamics remain unclear. To investigate the demographic history of African-descendant Marron populations, we generated genome-wide data (4.3 million markers) from 107 individuals from three African-descendant populations in South America, as well as 124 individuals from six west African populations. Throughout the Americas, thousands of enslaved Africans managed to escape captivity and establish lasting communities, such as the Noir Marron. We find that this population has the highest proportion of African ancestry (\xe2\x88\xbc98%) of any African-descendant population analyzed to date, presumably because of centuries of genetic isolation. By contrast, African-descendant populations in Brazil and Colombia harbor substantially more European and Native American ancestry as a result of their complex admixture histories. Using ancestry tract-length analysis, we detect different dates for the European admixture events in the African-Colombian (1749 CE; confidence interval [CI]: 1737-1764) and African-Brazilian (1796 CE; CI: 1789-1804) populations in our dataset, consistent with the historically attested earlier influx of Africans into Colombia. Furthermore, we find evidence for sex-specific admixture patterns, resulting from predominantly European paternal gene flow. Finally, we detect strong genetic links between the African-descendant populations and specific source populations in Africa on the basis of haplotype sharing patterns. Although the Noir Marron and African-Colombians show stronger affinities with African populations from the Bight of Benin and the Gold Coast, the African-Brazilian population from Rio de Janeiro has greater genetic affinity with Bantu-speaking populations from the Bight of Biafra and west central Africa. labels: #Africa#African Continental Ancestry Group#Brazil#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#French Guiana#Gene Flow#Genetics, Population#Genome-Wide Association Study#Haplotypes#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Suriname'
b'Although genetic correlations between complex traits provide valuable insights into epidemiological and etiological studies, a precise quantification of which genomic regions disproportionately contribute to the genome-wide correlation is currently lacking. Here, we introduce \xcf\x81-HESS, a technique to quantify the correlation between pairs of traits due to genetic variation at a small region in the genome. Our approach requires GWAS summary data only and makes no distributional assumption on the causal variant effect sizes while accounting for linkage disequilibrium (LD) and overlapping GWAS samples. We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary data across 36 quantitative traits, and identified 25 genomic regions that contribute significantly to the genetic correlation among these traits. Notably, we find 6 genomic regions that contribute to the genetic correlation of 10 pairs of traits that show negligible genome-wide correlation, further showcasing the power of local genetic correlation analyses. Finally, we report the distribution of local genetic correlations across the genome for 55 pairs of traits that show putative causal relationships. labels: #Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genomics#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Models, Genetic#Phenotype#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b'The increase in red blood cell mass (polycythemia) due to the reduced oxygen availability (hypoxia) of residence at high altitude or other conditions is generally thought to be beneficial in terms of increasing tissue oxygen supply. However, the extreme polycythemia and accompanying increased mortality due to heart failure in chronic mountain sickness most likely reduces fitness. Tibetan highlanders have adapted to high altitude, possibly in part via the selection of genetic variants associated with reduced polycythemic response to hypoxia. In contrast, high-altitude-adapted Quechua- and Aymara-speaking inhabitants of the Andean Altiplano are not protected from high-altitude polycythemia in the same way, yet they exhibit other adaptive features for which the genetic underpinnings remain obscure. Here, we used whole-genome sequencing to scan high-altitude Andeans for signals of selection. The genes showing the strongest evidence of selection-including BRINP3, NOS2, and TBX5-are associated with cardiovascular development and function but are not in the response-to-hypoxia pathway. Using association mapping, we demonstrated that the haplotypes under selection are associated with phenotypic variations related to cardiovascular health. We hypothesize that selection in response to hypoxia in Andeans could have vascular effects and could serve to mitigate the deleterious effects of polycythemia rather than reduce polycythemia itself. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Altitude#Altitude Sickness#Cardiovascular System#Female#Genome-Wide Association Study#Haplotypes#Heart Failure#Humans#Hypoxia#Male#Middle Aged#Polycythemia#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Selection, Genetic'
b'Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CAMK2) is one of the first proteins shown to be essential for normal learning and synaptic plasticity in mice, but its requirement for human brain development has not yet been established. Through a multi-center collaborative study based on a whole-exome sequencing approach, we identified 19 exceedingly rare de novo CAMK2A or CAMK2B variants in 24 unrelated individuals with intellectual disability. Variants were assessed for their effect on CAMK2 function and on neuronal migration. For both CAMK2A and CAMK2B, we identified mutations that decreased or increased CAMK2 auto-phosphorylation at Thr286/Thr287. We further found that all mutations affecting auto-phosphorylation also affected neuronal migration, highlighting the importance of tightly regulated CAMK2 auto-phosphorylation in neuronal function and neurodevelopment. Our data establish the importance of CAMK2A and CAMK2B and their auto-phosphorylation in human brain function and expand the phenotypic spectrum of the disorders caused by variants in key players of the glutamatergic signaling pathway. labels: #Animals#Brain#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Line#Exome#Female#Glutamic Acid#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mutation#Neurons#Phosphorylation#Signal Transduction'
b'Renal agenesis and hypodysplasia (RHD) are major causes of pediatric chronic kidney disease and are highly genetically heterogeneous. We conducted whole-exome sequencing in 202 case subjects with RHD and identified diagnostic mutations in genes known to be associated with RHD in 7/202 case subjects. In an additional affected individual with RHD and a congenital heart defect, we found a homozygous loss-of-function (LOF) variant in SLIT3, recapitulating phenotypes reported with Slit3 inactivation in the mouse. To identify genes associated with RHD, we performed an exome-wide association study with 195 unresolved case subjects and 6,905 control subjects. The top signal resided in GREB1L, a gene implicated previously in Hoxb1 and Shha signaling in zebrafish. The significance of the association, which was p = 2.0\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-5for novel LOF, increased to p = 4.1\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-6for LOF and deleterious missense variants combined, and augmented further after accounting for segregation and de novo inheritance of rare variants (joint p = 2.3\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-7). Finally, CRISPR/Cas9 disruption or knockdown of greb1l in zebrafish caused specific pronephric defects, which were rescued by wild-type human GREB1L mRNA, but not mRNA containing alleles identified in case subjects. Together, our study provides insight into the genetic landscape of kidney malformations in humans, presents multiple candidates, and identifies SLIT3 and GREB1L as genes implicated in the pathogenesis of RHD. labels: #Alleles#Animals#Case-Control Studies#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Congenital Abnormalities#Exome#Female#Genetic Heterogeneity#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genotype#Heredity#Homozygote#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Diseases#Male#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Phenotype#RNA, Long Noncoding#Urinary Tract#Urogenital Abnormalities#Zebrafish'
b'Congenital anomalies of the kidney and urinary tract (CAKUT) constitute a major cause of chronic kidney disease in children and 20% of prenatally detected anomalies. CAKUT encompass a spectrum of developmental kidney defects, including renal agenesis, hypoplasia, and cystic and non-cystic dysplasia. More than 50 genes have been reported as mutated in CAKUT-affected case subjects. However, the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to bilateral kidney agenesis (BKA) remain largely elusive. Whole-exome or targeted exome sequencing of 183 unrelated familial and/or severe CAKUT-affected case subjects, including 54 fetuses with BKA, led to the identification of 16 heterozygous variants in GREB1L (growth regulation by estrogen in breast cancer 1-like), a gene reported as a target of retinoic acid signaling. Four loss-of-function and 12 damaging missense variants, 14 being absent from GnomAD, were identified. Twelve of them were present in familial or simplex BKA-affected case subjects. Female BKA-affected fetuses also displayed uterus agenesis. We demonstrated a significant association between GREB1L variants and BKA. By in situ hybridization, we showed expression of Greb1l in the nephrogenic zone in developing mouse kidney. We generated a Greb1l knock-out mouse model by CRISPR-Cas9. Analysis at E13.5 revealed lack of kidneys and genital tract anomalies in male and female Greb1l-/-embryos and a slight decrease in ureteric bud branching in Greb1l+/-embryos. We showed that Greb1l invalidation in mIMCD3 cells affected tubulomorphogenesis in 3D-collagen culture, a phenotype rescued by expression of the wild-type human protein. This demonstrates that GREB1L plays a major role in early metanephros and genital development in mice and humans. labels: #Animals#Child#Congenital Abnormalities#Exome#Female#Fetus#Heterozygote#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Diseases#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Phenotype#Proteins#Urinary Tract#Urogenital Abnormalities'
b'Fibronectin is a master organizer of extracellular matrices (ECMs) and promotes the assembly of collagens, fibrillin-1, and other proteins. It is also known to play roles in skeletal tissues through its secretion by osteoblasts, chondrocytes, and mesenchymal cells. Spondylometaphyseal dysplasias (SMDs) comprise a diverse group of skeletal dysplasias and often manifest as short stature, growth-plate irregularities, and vertebral anomalies, such as scoliosis. By comparing the exomes of individuals with SMD with the radiographic appearance of "corner fractures" at metaphyses, we identified three individuals with fibronectin (FN1) variants affecting highly conserved residues. Furthermore, using matching tools and the SkelDys emailing list, we identified other individuals with de novo\xc2\xa0FN1 variants and a similar phenotype. The severe scoliosis in most individuals and rare developmental coxa vara distinguish individuals with FN1 mutations from those with classical Sutcliffe-type SMD. To study functional consequences of these FN1 mutations on the protein level, we introduced three disease-associated missense variants (p.Cys87Phe [c.260G>T], p.Tyr240Asp [c.718T>G], and p.Cys260Gly [c.778T>G]) into a recombinant secreted N-terminal 70\xc2\xa0kDa fragment (rF70K) and the full-length fibronectin (rFN). The wild-type rF70K and rFN were secreted into the culture medium, whereas all mutant proteins were either not secreted or secreted at significantly lower amounts. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated increased intracellular retention of the mutant proteins. In summary, FN1 mutations that cause defective fibronectin secretion are found in SMD, and we thus provide additional evidence for a critical function of fibronectin in cartilage and bone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Bone Diseases, Developmental#Bone and Bones#Cartilage#Child#Child, Preschool#Exome#Female#Fibronectins#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Mutation#Osteochondrodysplasias#Phenotype#Scoliosis'
b"Gorlin-Chaudhry-Moss syndrome (GCMS) is a dysmorphic syndrome characterized by coronal craniosynostosis and severe midface hypoplasia, body and facial hypertrichosis, microphthalmia, short stature, and short distal phalanges. Variable lipoatrophy and cutis laxa are the basis for a progeroid appearance. Using exome and genome sequencing, we identified the recurrent de novo mutations c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) and c.649C>T (p.Arg217Cys) in SLC25A24 in five unrelated girls diagnosed with GCMS. Two of the girls had pronounced neonatal progeroid features and were initially diagnosed with Wiedemann-Rautenstrauch syndrome. SLC25A24 encodes a mitochondrial inner membrane ATP-Mg/Picarrier. In fibroblasts from affected individuals, the mutated SLC25A24 showed normal stability. In contrast to control cells, the probands' cells showed mitochondrial swelling, which was exacerbated upon treatment with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The same effect was observed after overexpression of the mutant cDNA. Under normal culture conditions, the mitochondrial membrane potential of the probands' fibroblasts was intact, whereas ATP content in the mitochondrial matrix was lower than that in control cells. However, upon H2O2exposure, the membrane potential was significantly elevated in cells harboring the mutated SLC25A24. No reduction of mitochondrial DNA copy number was observed. These findings demonstrate that mitochondrial dysfunction with increased sensitivity to oxidative stress is due to the SLC25A24 mutations. Our results suggest that the SLC25A24 mutations induce a gain of pathological function and link mitochondrial ATP-Mg/Pitransport to the development of skeletal and connective tissue. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Adenosine Triphosphate#Adolescent#Antiporters#Calcium-Binding Proteins#Child#Child, Preschool#Craniofacial Abnormalities#Craniosynostoses#Cutis Laxa#DNA, Mitochondrial#Ductus Arteriosus, Patent#Exome#Female#Fetal Growth Retardation#Fibroblasts#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Hypertrichosis#Infant#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Mutation#Oxidative Stress#Progeria"
b'A series of simplex cases have been reported under various diagnoses sharing early aging, especially evident in congenitally decreased subcutaneous fat tissue and sparse hair, bone dysplasia of the skull and fingers, a distinctive facial gestalt, and prenatal and postnatal growth retardation. For historical reasons, we suggest naming the entity Fontaine syndrome. Exome sequencing of four unrelated affected individuals showed that all carried the de novo missense variant c.649C>T (p.Arg217Cys) or c.650G>A (p.Arg217His) in SLC25A24, a solute carrier 25 family member coding for calcium-binding mitochondrial carrier protein (SCaMC-1, also known as SLC25A24). SLC25A24 allows an electro-neutral and reversible exchange of ATP-Mg and phosphate between the cytosol and mitochondria, which is required for maintaining optimal adenine nucleotide levels in the mitochondrial matrix. Molecular dynamic simulation studies predict that p.Arg217Cys and p.Arg217His narrow the substrate cavity of the protein and disrupt transporter dynamics. SLC25A24-mutant fibroblasts and cells expressing p.Arg217Cys or p.Arg217His variants showed altered mitochondrial morphology, a decreased proliferation rate, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, and decreased ATP-linked mitochondrial oxygen consumption. The results suggest that the SLC25A24 mutations lead to impaired mitochondrial ATP synthesis and cause hyperpolarization and increased proton leak in association with an impaired energy metabolism. Our findings identify SLC25A24 mutations affecting codon 217 as the underlying genetic cause of human progeroid Fontaine syndrome. labels: #Adenine#Adenosine Triphosphate#Aging#Antiporters#Bone Diseases, Developmental#Calcium-Binding Proteins#Cytosol#Female#Fetal Death#Fibroblasts#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Mutation#Oxygen#Phosphates#Syndrome'
b'Approximately one in every 200 mammalian proteins is anchored to the cell membrane through a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. These proteins play important roles notably in neurological development and function. To date, more than 20 genes have been implicated in the biogenesis of GPI-anchored proteins. GPAA1 (glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor attachment 1) is an essential component of the transamidase complex along with PIGK, PIGS, PIGT, and PIGU (phosphatidylinositol-glycan biosynthesis classes K, S, T, and U, respectively). This complex orchestrates the attachment of the GPI anchor to the C terminus of precursor proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Here, we report bi-allelic mutations in GPAA1 in ten individuals from five families. Using whole-exome sequencing, we identified two frameshift mutations (c.981_993del [p.Gln327Hisfs\xe2\x88\x97102] and c.920delG [p.Gly307Alafs\xe2\x88\x9711]), one intronic splicing mutation (c.1164+5C>T), and six missense mutations (c.152C>T [p.Ser51Leu], c.160_161delinsAA [p.Ala54Asn], c.527G>C [p.Trp176Ser], c.869T>C [p.Leu290Pro], c.872T>C [p.Leu291Pro], and c.1165G>C [p.Ala389Pro]). Most individuals presented with global developmental delay, hypotonia, early-onset seizures, cerebellar atrophy, and osteopenia. The splicing mutation was found to decrease GPAA1 mRNA. Moreover, flow-cytometry analysis of five available individual samples showed that several GPI-anchored proteins had decreased cell-surface abundance in leukocytes (FLAER, CD16, and CD59) or fibroblasts (CD73 and CD109). Transduction of fibroblasts with a lentivirus encoding the wild-type protein partially rescued the deficiency of GPI-anchored proteins. These findings highlight the role of the transamidase complex in the development and function of the cerebellum and the skeletal system. labels: #Acyltransferases#Adolescent#Adult#Alleles#Atrophy#Bone Diseases, Metabolic#Cerebellum#Child#Child, Preschool#Developmental Disabilities#Epilepsy#Exome#Female#Fibroblasts#Glycosylphosphatidylinositols#Humans#Male#Membrane Glycoproteins#Muscle Hypotonia#Mutation#Pedigree#RNA, Messenger#Seizures'
b'INTRODUCTION: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is featured with the biological properties of strong aggressive behaviors, rapid disease progression, high risk of recurrence and metastasis, and low disease free survival. Patients with this tumor are insensitive to the endocrine therapy and target treatment for HER-2; therefore, chemotherapy is often used as routine treatment in clinical. Because of the fact that a considerable number of patients seek for Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) treatment after operation and chemotherapy and (or) radiotherapy, it is thus need to evaluate the correlation between Chinese herbal medicine treatment and prognosis.METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This is a multicenter, prospective cohort study started in March 2016 in Beijing. A simple of 220 participants diagnosed with TNBC were recruited from nine hospitals and are followed up every 3 to 6 months till March 2020. Detailed information of participants includes personal information, history of cancer, quality of life, symptoms of traditional Chinese medicine and fatigue status is taken face-to-face at baseline.ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has received ethical approval from the Research Ethical Committee of Beijing Hospital of Traditional Chinese Medicine affiliated to Capital Medical University (No.2016BL-014-01). Articles summarizing the primary results and ancillary analyses will be published in peer-reviewed journals.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Chinese Clinical Trial Registry: ChiCTR-OOC-16008246. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Clinical Protocols#Combined Modality Therapy#Drugs, Chinese Herbal#Female#Humans#Medicine, Chinese Traditional#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Quality of Life#Treatment Outcome#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the risk factors of wound infection after open reduction and internal fixation of calcaneal fractures.In all, 299 patients with 318 calcaneal fractures who underwent open reduction and internal fixation by a single surgeon were grouped according to different outcomes. We gathered the data on each patient including sex, age, injury mechanism, body mass index (BMI), time to operation, fracture type, associated injuries, treatment course, tourniquet time, blood loss, bone graft (yes or no), diabetes (yes or no), smoking history, and complications. Univariate analysis and multivariable analysis were used to determine the association between risk factors and wound infection.Patients who met the entry criteria included 267 males and 32 females with a mean age of 38.6 years. Among them, 5.3% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17) suffered wound infection, and all of the wounds healed after different treatments. According to the univariate analysis, the patients who developed wound infections were active smokers, more obese (higher BMI), had a longer time from injury to operation, and longer tourniquet time. Multivariate analysis indicated that a higher BMI, delayed operation, and active smoking were independent risk factors for wound infection after open reduction and internal fixation of calcaneal fractures.Patients with calcaneal fractures who were smokers and had a higher BMI had a high risk of wound infections. We suggested that surgeons wait to operate until swellings of the injured foot improved, and we also suggested the operation should be within 14 days after the injury. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Calcaneus#Female#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Obesity#Open Fracture Reduction#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Smoking#Surgical Wound Infection#Time Factors#Time-to-Treatment#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: This randomized clinical trial (October 2012-December 2013) compared extracorporeal shock wave therapy (ESWT) and a vacuum erectile device (VED) for management of erectile dysfunction (ED).METHODS: Consecutive Chinese patients (20-55 years) with ED, abnormal nocturnal penile tumescence and rigidity (NPTR), and international index of erectile function-5 items (IIEF-5) score<22 were randomized to receive ESWT or VED (twice weekly, 4 weeks). Primary outcomes were treatment efficacy and success rate 4 weeks after completion of therapy. Secondary outcomes included changes in IIEF-5 score, sex encounter profile (SEP) score, erection hardness score (EHS) and NPTR assessments 4 weeks post-therapy. All enrolled patients (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a30 per group) completed the study. At baseline, age, IIEF-5 score, SEP score, EHS, and NPTR assessments were similar between groups.RESULTS: Four weeks post-therapy, IIEF-5 score increased in the ESWT (15.03\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.00 vs. 11.60\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.28) and VED (15.10\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.06 vs. 11.53\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.27) groups, as did SEP score, EHS, and NPTR measures (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Efficacy in the ESWT and VED groups was excellent in 10% and 13.3%, respectively, and moderate in 63.3% and 53.3%, respectively. Treatment success rate in the ESWT and VED groups was 73.3% and 67.7%, respectively.CONCLUSION: VED use and ESWT have comparable efficacies in the treatment of ED in Chinese patients. labels: #Adult#China#Erectile Dysfunction#High-Energy Shock Waves#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Penile Erection#Prospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Treatment Outcome#Vacuum#Young Adult'
b'Our study aimed to evaluate the utility of muscle ultrasound in newborn screening of infantile-onset Pompe disease (IOPD) and to establish a system of severity grading. We retrospectively selected 35 patients with initial low acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA) activity and collected data including muscle ultrasound features, GAA gene mutation, activity/performance, and pathological and laboratory findings. The echogenicity of 6 muscles (the bilateral vastus intermedius, rectus femoris, and sartorius muscles) was compared to that of epimysium on ultrasound and rated either 1 (normal), 2 (mildly increased), or 3 (obviously increased). These grades were used to divide patients into 3 groups. IOPD was present in none of the grade-1 patients, 5 of 9 grade-2 patients, and 5 of 5 grade-3 patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Comparing grade-2 plus grade-3 patients to grade-1 patients, muscle ultrasound detected IOPD with a sensitivity and specificity of 100.0% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 69.2%-100%) and 84.0% (95% CI: 63.9%-95.5%), respectively. The mean number of affected muscles was larger in grade-3 patients than in grade-2 patients (4.2 vs. 2.0, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.005). Mean alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), creatine kinase (CK), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels were differed significantly different between grade-3 and grade-1 patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Because it permits direct visualization of injured muscles, muscle ultrasound can be used to screen for IOPD. Our echogenicity grades of muscle injury also correlate well with serum levels of muscle-injury biochemical markers. labels: #Alanine Transaminase#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Biomarkers#Creatine Kinase#Female#Glycogen Storage Disease Type II#Humans#Infant, Newborn#L-Lactate Dehydrogenase#Male#Neonatal Screening#Quadriceps Muscle#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Ultrasonography#alpha-Glucosidases'
b'To explore the relationship between the extent of central nervous system (CNS) injury and patient outcomes meanwhile research the potential risk factors associated with neurologic sequelae. In this retrospective cohort study, we analyzed data from 117 consecutive patients (86 survivors, 31 nonsurvivors) with exertional heat stroke (EHS) who had been admitted to intensive care unit (ICU) at 48 Chinese hospitals between April 2003 and July 2015. Extent of CNS injury was dichotomized according to Glasgow coma scale (GCS) score (severe 3-8, not severe 9-15). We then assessed differences in hospital mortality based on the extent of CNS injury by comparing 90-day survival time between the patient groups. Exploring the risk factors of neurologic sequelae. The primary outcomewas the 90-day survival ratewhich differed between the 2 groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.023). The incidence of neurologic sequelae was 24.4%. For its risk factors, duration of recurrent hyperthermia (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.73, 95% CI: 1.20-2.49, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003), duration of CNS injury (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.39, 95% CI: 1.04-1.85, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025), and low GCS in the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours after admission (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.39, 95% CI: 1.11-5.15, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025) were selected by multivariable logistic regression. Cooling effect was eliminated as a factor (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2641.27, 95% CI 0.40-1.73_107, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.079). Significant differences in 90-day survival ratewere observed based on the extent of CNS injury in patients with EHS, and incidence was 24.4% for neurologic sequelae. Duration of recurrent hyperthermia, duration of CNS injury, and low GCS score in the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours following admission may be independent risk factors of neurologic sequelae. Cooling effect should be validated in the further studies. labels: #Adult#Female#Fever#Glasgow Coma Scale#Heat Stroke#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Incidence#Intensive Care Units#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Physical Exertion#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Trauma, Nervous System#Young Adult'
b'Although subjective global assessment (SGA) is a widely used tool for nutritional investigation, the scores are dependent on the inspectors\' subjective opinions, and there are only few studies that directly assessed the usefulness of SGA and modified SGA in incident peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients. A total of 365 incident PD patients between 2009 and 2015 were enrolled and measured with SGA and calculated using serum albumin and total iron binding capacity (TIBC) levels for weighted SGA. Cox analyses were performed to delineate the association between SGA or weighted SGA and all-cause mortality, and a receiver-operating characteristic was conducted to reveal the additional benefit of weighted SGA on predicting adverse clinical outcomes. The Kaplan-Meier curve showed that the cumulative survival rate in patients with "Good nutrition" (G1) was significantly higher compared to those with "Mild to severe malnutrition" (G2). G2 was significantly associated with an increase in the mortality even after adjusting for several covariates compared with G1. Moreover, a 1-unit increase in weighted SGA was also significantly correlated with mortality after adjustment of the same covariates, while G2 was not significantly associated with an increase in the mortality among young-aged (under 65 years) groups. Meanwhile, a 1-unit increase in weighted SGA was significantly related to an increase in mortality in all the subgroup analyses. Furthermore, the AUCs of weighted SGAs in all groups were significantly increased compared with those of SGA alone. In conclusions, the evaluation of nutritional status based on SGA in incident PD patients might be useful for predicting mortality. However, weighted SGA with serum albumin and TIBC can provide additional predictive power for mortality compared with SGA alone in incident PD patients. labels: #Adult#Aged#Female#Humans#Iron#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Male#Malnutrition#Middle Aged#Nutrition Assessment#Nutritional Status#Peritoneal Dialysis#Predictive Value of Tests#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Regression Analysis#Serum Albumin#Survival Rate'
b'INTRODUCTION: We present a rarely seen case of cerebral infarction due to intracranial dolichoectasia coexisting with spontaneous dissection of the basilar artery. A definition of dolichoectasia, its pathology, and imaging findings, as well as the clinical management and prognosis are briefly reviewed.CONCLUSION: We discuss in general terms the diagnosis of basilar artery dissection and its probable relationship with the occurrence of dolichoectasia. labels: #Basilar Artery#Cerebral Infarction#Humans#Intracranial Arterial Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Vertebral Artery Dissection#Vertebrobasilar Insufficiency'
b'Pneumonia is a leading cause of hospitalization and mortality worldwide. Despite recognition of the importance of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults, limited epidemiologic information is available in South Korea. This study aimed to evaluate the disease burden of hospitalized CAP in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa519 years and its epidemiologic trend using Health Insurance and Review Assessment (HIRA) data.This is a retrospective study using the HIRA database from year 2009 to 2013. We estimated the incidence rate and direct medical cost of hospitalized CAP in adults aged \xe2\x89\xa519 years in South Korea. These were further analyzed with respect to age and underlying medical conditions.During 2009 to 2013, 1216,916 hospitalizations were recorded. On average, the annual age-adjusted incidence rate of hospitalized CAP was 626 per 100,000 persons, with the rate increasing with age. When stratified by age- and risk groups, elderly people \xe2\x89\xa575 years showed the highest incidence rate of hospitalized CAP over 5-year study periods. With respect to the risk groups based on underlying medical conditions, incidence rate ratios were 2.04 to 5.86 for the high-risk group versus the low-risk group and 1.28 to 5.49 for the moderate-risk group versus the low-risk group. Overall, mean direct medical cost for hospitalized CAP was 1851 USD per capita during the 5-year period: 1263 USD in the low-risk group, 2353 USD in the moderate-risk group, and 2841 USD in the high-risk group.This study shows that the incidence and medical cost of hospitalized CAP were consistently high over the 5-year study period. In particular, elderly people and adults with underlying medical conditions were at increased risk for hospitalized CAP. labels: #Adult#Age Distribution#Age Factors#Community-Acquired Infections#Cost of Illness#Databases, Factual#Female#Health Care Costs#Hospitalization#Humans#Incidence#Insurance, Health#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonia#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is highly sensitive to radiotherapy. Locally advanced NPC has a relatively poor prognosis if treated with radiotherapy alone. Several studies have demonstrated that chemoradiotherapy confers survival benefit in locally advanced NPC. However, a small proportion of patients are resistant to chemotherapy based on cisplatin. So, it is important to make a valuable and inexpensive schedule for these patients. After 2 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy that consisted of gemcitabine and cisplatin (80\xe2\x80\x8amg/m, every 3 weeks) or paclitaxel and cisplatin (80\xe2\x80\x8amg/m, every 3 weeks), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to evaluate efficacy. A total of 13 patients with extensive nodal disease or/and bulky tumors volume were determined with a stable disease (SD) and enrolled in this study. Cisplatin at a dose of 30\xe2\x80\x8amg/m administered weekly concurrent with intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) was used to treat these patients resistant to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The efficacy was evaluated by tumor response and the change of tumor volume. After the completion of concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT), the overall tumor response was a complete response (CR) for 4 of 13 (30.8%) patients and partial response (PR) for 9 of 13 (69.2%) patients. The mean primary tumor volume was reduced by 59.7% and 89.8% at the 24th fraction of IMRT and after the completion of IMRT, respectively. The mean nodal volume was reduced by 63.8% and 93.5% at the 24th fraction of IMRT and after completion of IMRT, respectively. The study showed that weekly cisplatin concurrent with IMRT improved the treatment parameters for locally advanced NPC with resistance to neoadjuvant chemotherapy based on cisplatin. It was a valuable and relatively inexpensive schedule to improve the prognosis for these patients. labels: #Adult#Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms#Prognosis#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Tumor Burden'
b"After age 85, upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy may be indicated in 5% to 10% of inpatients, but the risk-benefit ratio is unknown. We studied patients older than 85 years undergoing upper and lower GI endoscopy.We analyzed a retrospective cohort of inpatients older than 85 years between 2004 and 2012, all explored by upper and complete lower GI endoscopy. Initial indications, including iron deficiency anemia (IDA), other anemias, GI bleeding, weight loss, and GI symptoms, were noted, as were endoscopy or anesthesia complications, immediate endoscopic diagnosis, and the ability to modify the patients' therapeutics. Deaths and final diagnosis for initial endoscopic indication were analyzed after at least 12 months.We included 55 patients, 78% women, with a median age, reticulocyte count, hemoglobin, and ferritin levels of 87 (85-99), 56 (24-214) g/L, 8.6 (4.8-12.9) g/dL, and 56 (3-799) \xce\xbcg/L, respectively. IDA was the most frequent indication for endoscopy (60%; n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33). Immediate diagnoses were found in 64% of the patients (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a35), including 25% with GI cancers (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a14) and 22% with gastroduodenal ulcers or erosions (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12). Cancer diagnosis was associated with lower reticulocyte count (45 vs. 60\xe2\x80\x8aG/L; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02). Among the 35 diagnoses, 94% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) led to modifications of the patients' therapeutics, with 29% of the patients deciding on palliative care (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a10). No endoscopic complications lead to death. Follow-up of>12 months was available in 82% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a45) of the patients; among these patients, 40% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a27) died after an average 24\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18 months. Cancer diagnosis was significantly associated with less ulterior red cell transfusion (0% vs. 28%; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02) and fewer further investigations (6.7% vs. 40%; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02).Upper and complete lower GI endoscopy in patients older than 85 years appears to be safe, and enables a high rate of immediate diagnosis, with significant modifications of therapeutics. GI cancers represented more than one-third of the endoscopic diagnoses. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Anemia, Iron-Deficiency#Endoscopy, Gastrointestinal#Female#Gastrointestinal Diseases#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Gastrointestinal Neoplasms#Geriatric Assessment#Humans#Inpatients#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Odds Ratio#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment"
b'Emergency air medical transport (EAMT) is indispensable for acutely or critically ill patients in remote areas. We determined patient-level and transport-specific factors associated with all-cause mortality after EAMT.We conducted a population-based, retrospective cohort study using a prospective registry consisting of clinical/medical records. Study inclusion criteria consisted of all adults undergoing EAMT from Kinmen hospital to the ED of Taipei Veterans General Hospital (TVGH) between January 1, 2006 and December 31, 2012. The primary outcome assessments were 7-day and 30-day mortality.A total of 370 patients transported to TVGH were enrolled in the study with a mean age of 54.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a21.5 (SD) years and with a male predominance (71.6%). The average in-transit time was 1.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.4\xe2\x80\x8ahours. The 7-day, 30-day, and in-hospital mortality rates were 10.3%, 14.1%, and 14.9%. Among them 33.5% (124/370) were categorized under neurological etiologies, whereas 24.9% (90/370) cardiovascular, followed by 16.2% (60/370) trauma patients. Independent predictors associated with 7-day all-cause mortality were age (odds ratio [OR] 1.043, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.016-1.070), Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) (OR 0.730, 95% CI 0.650-0.821), and hematocrit level (OR 0.930, 95% CI 0.878-0.985). Independent predictors associated with 30-day all-cause mortality were age (OR 1.028, 95% CI 1.007-1.049), GCS (OR 0.686, 95% CI 0.600-0.785), hematocrit (OR 0.940, 95% CI 0.895-0.988), hemodynamic instability (OR 5.088 95% CI 1.769-14.635), and endotracheal intubation (OR 0.131 95% CI 0.030-0.569). The 7-day and 30-day mortality were not significantly related to transport-specific factors, such as length of flight, type of paramedic crew on board, or day and season of transport. Clinical patient-level factors, as opposed to transport-level factors, were associated with 7- and 30-day all-cause mortality in patients undergoing interfacility EAMT from Kinmen to Taiwan. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Air Ambulances#Cause of Death#Critical Illness#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intubation, Intratracheal#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Prospective Studies#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Taiwan#Time Factors#Transportation of Patients'
b'Early estimation of mortality risk in patients with trauma is essential. In this study, we evaluate the validity of the Emergency Trauma Score (EMTRAS) and Rapid Emergency Medicine Score (REMS) for predicting in-hospital mortality in patients with trauma. Furthermore, we compared the REMS and the EMTRAS with 2 other scoring systems: the Revised Trauma Score (RTS) and Injury Severity score (ISS).We performed a retrospective chart review of 6905 patients with trauma reported between July 2011 and June 2016 at a large national university hospital in South Korea. We analyzed the associations between patient characteristics, treatment course, and injury severity scoring systems (ISS, RTS, EMTRAS, and REMS) with in-hospital mortality. Discriminating power was compared between scoring systems using the areas under the curve (AUC) of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 3.1%. Higher EMTRAS and REMS scores were associated with hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The ROC curve demonstrated adequate discrimination (AUC = 0.957 for EMTRAS and 0.9 for REMS). After performing AUC analysis followed by Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons, EMTRAS was significantly superior to REMS and ISS in predicting in-hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but not significantly different from the RTS (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.057). The other scoring systems were not significantly different from each other.The EMTRAS and the REMS are simple, accurate predictors of in-hospital mortality in patients with trauma. labels: #Adult#Aged#Area Under Curve#Emergency Medicine#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Trauma Severity Indices#Wounds and Injuries'
b'Several risk factors for pancreatic fistula had been widely reported, but there was no research focusing on the exocrine output of remnant gland.During the study period of January 2015 to September 2016, 82 patients accepted pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD, end-to-end dunking pancreaticojejunostomy with internal stent tube). All the data were collected, including preoperative medical status, operative course, final pathology, gland texture, pancreatic duct diameter, size of the stent, length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube, width of the pancreatic stump, diameter of the jejunum and the status of postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF). POPF was defined according to International Study Group of Pancreatic Fistula criteria.The diameter of pancreatic duct in the POPF group was significantly smaller than that in the group without POPF (1.99 vs 2.90\xe2\x80\x8amm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). The length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube in the POPF group was significantly longer than that in the group without POPF (18.04 vs 6.92\xe2\x80\x8acm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.014). There were more pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cases and hard glands in the group without POPF. The length of pancreatic juice in the clinically relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (CR-POPF) group was significantly longer than that in the grade A group (32.4 vs 9.21\xe2\x80\x8acm, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). Multivariate analysis identified gland texture and length of pancreatic juice as independent predictors for pancreatic fistula. Multivariate analysis also identified the length of pancreatic juice as an independent predictor for CR-POPF.The length of pancreatic juice in the stent tube might be a useful predictive factor of POPF after PD, especially for CR-POPF. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#Humans#Jejunum#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Pancreas#Pancreas, Exocrine#Pancreatic Fistula#Pancreatic Juice#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Pancreaticoduodenectomy#Pancreaticojejunostomy#Postoperative Complications#Postoperative Period#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Stents#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'The initial diagnosis of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy is based on nervous system clinical manifestations. The use of biomarkers to monitor brain injury and evaluate neuroprotective effects allows early intervention and treatment. This study was designed to determine the short-term prognostic significance of urinary S100B calcium-binding protein (S100B) in asphyxiated newborns treated with hypothermia.An observational prospective study was conducted over a period of 5 years in 31 newborns with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy who received therapeutic hypothermia. The patients were divided into 2 groups: Group A (13 newborns with a normal neurological examination before discharge) and Group B (18 newborns who died during admission or had an abnormal neurologic examination before discharge). Urinary S100B was the main variable, serum S100B and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) were considered as secondary variables, and all of them were assessed on the first 3 days of life. The newborns were subsequently divided into groups with normal and abnormal electrophysiological and imaging findings.Mean urinary S100B levels were significantly higher in group B than group A on day 1 (10.58\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a14.82 vs 4.65\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.16\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.031) and day 2 (5.16\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.63 vs 0.88\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.53, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002). The optimal cutoff for urinary S100B on day 1 was>1.11\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L of (sensitivity, 100%; specificity 60%) for the prediction of neonatal death and\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.66\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/L (sensitivity 83% and specificity 70%) for the prediction of a normal neurological examination before discharge. It was not possible to calculate cutoffs with a similar accuracy for serum S100B or NSE. Urinary S100B on day 1 was higher in patients with abnormal magnetic resonance imaging findings (7.89\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.09 vs 4.49\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.14, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.039) and abnormal positron emission tomography findings (8.60\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a9.29 vs 4.30\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.28, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). There were no significant differences in S100B levels between patients with normal and abnormal electroencephalography results.Urinary S100B measured in the first days of life can predict neonatal death and short-term prognosis in asphyxiated newborns treated with hypothermia. The method is convenient, noninvasive, and has a higher sensitivity and specificity than measurement of serum S100B or NSE. labels: #Biomarkers#Electroencephalography#Female#Humans#Hypothermia, Induced#Hypoxia-Ischemia, Brain#Infant, Newborn#Male#Neurologic Examination#Perinatal Death#Phosphopyruvate Hydratase#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#S100 Calcium Binding Protein beta Subunit#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'High viral load is an independent risk factor for development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB). Antiviral therapy can reduce but not eliminate the risk of HCC. The aim of this study was to identify the risk factors for HCC development in CHB patients during antiviral therapy.CHB patients with HBV DNA level \xe2\x89\xa510\xe2\x80\x8acopies/mL, with or without compensated cirrhosis receiving adefovir were followed up every 6 months for 10 years (2004-2014). The primary endpoint was the development of HCC. The cumulative incidence and risk factors of HCC were evaluated by the Kaplan-Meier method and multivariate Cox proportional hazards models.At baseline, 28 of the 120 patients (23.3%) were cirrhotic. One patient developed HCC within 1 year, and therefore 119 patients were analyzed. At the end-point of follow-up, 59.7% (71/119) patients achieved virological remission (VR). Overall, 16 patients developed HCC, giving a 10-year cumulative incidence of 15.73%. Multivariate analysis showed that cirrhosis at baseline and failure to achieve VR were significant risk factors for HCC. The 10-year incidence of HCC was significantly higher in cirrhotic than noncirrhotic patients (43.16% vs. 7.05%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001). For cirrhotic patients, the 10-year incidence of HCC was significantly higher in patients without VR than those with VR (62.24% vs. 27.78%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0139).Cirrhosis at baseline and failure to achieve VR during antiviral therapy were significant risk factors for HCC development in CHB patients. Effective viral suppression is necessary to reduce HCC development in cirrhotic CHB patients. labels: #Adenine#Adult#Antiviral Agents#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hepatitis B virus#Hepatitis B, Chronic#Humans#Incidence#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Liver Cirrhosis#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Organophosphonates#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sustained Virologic Response#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Viral Load'
b'RATIONALE: Salmonella enterica subsp arizonae is a common gut inhabitant of reptiles (snakes are the most common reservoir, but it also occurs in turtles). Alhough human cases owing to this organism are exceedingly rare, it may occasionally infect young infants and immunocompromised individuals with a history of intimate associations with reptiles. Our case is the 20th one among the infections with S arizonae in children, but the 2nd one of otitis and the first of mastoiditis. The other cases had different anatomical locations, such as gastroenteritis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, ankle infection, wound infection, and sinusitis.PATIENT CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSIS: We report a rare case of otitis with Salmonella in a previously healthy adolescent, which was most likely acquired after bathing in a lake. The ear infection was complicated with mastoiditis. Audiometric testing showed a moderately conductive hearing loss (60\xe2\x80\x8adB on pure-tone average).INTERVENTION: Standard therapy for S arizonae was initiated. The surgery revealed a "hidden" cholesteatoma. Surgical management comprised of canal wall up mastoidectomy with attico-antrotomy and posterior tympanotomy followed by tympanoplasty.OUTCOMES: Daily postoperative dressing care of the incision, along with antibiotic lavage of the external auditory canal packing, ensured a favorable evolution. The functional gain was important; the 1-month postsurgical pure tone audiogram indicated nearly normal hearing (a mean of 25\xe2\x80\x8adB for air conduction thresholds).LESSON: Salmonella enterica serotype arizonae is a rare cause of human infection, being a common organism in reptiles, like snakes and turtles. Young children are at a particular risk for acquiring such infections. Our study might encourage further epidemiologic investigations into these infections to generate a more effective strategy among public health agencies. labels: #Adolescent#Humans#Lakes#Male#Mastoiditis#Otitis Media#Salmonella Infections#Salmonella arizonae'
b'Crowding in emergency departments (EDs) is associated with long lengths of stay (LOS); however, it is not known whether the effect is equal across different chief complaints.The aim of the study was to compare the effect of crowding on LOS in the 10 most common medical or surgical chief complaints in the ED.All adult visits to a university hospital ED on weekdays between 8 AM and 9 PM in 2012 (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a19,200) were stratified based on chief complaint and triage priority. The ED bed occupancy rate was measured and crowding was defined as an occupancy rate over one. The impact of crowding on LOS was calculated for the different groups.During crowding, LOS was longer among all chief complaints (P \xe2\x89\xa4.01) (except for high-acuity patients with wounds, where the study group was very small). During crowding, LOS increased the most among patients with extremity pain/swelling (145% among high-acuity patients, 125% among low-acuity patients) and flank pain (87% among high-acuity patients, 117% among low-acuity patients) and the least among patients with chest pain (32% among high-acuity patients, 45% among low-acuity patients) or arrhythmia (37% among high-acuity patients, 52% among low-acuity patients).The effect of ED crowding on LOS is unequal across different chief complaints. These findings could be used to improve the processing of specific chief complaints in the ED. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cohort Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Crowding#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Hospitals, University#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Acuity#Time Factors#Triage#Young Adult'
b'This study aimed to observe the change in nonhigh-density lipoprotein cholesterol (non-HDL-C) levels and analyzed its related factors in adults with prediabetes (impaired fasting glucose and/or impaired glucose tolerance).This case-controlled study included 56 adults with normal glucose tolerance (NGT) and 74 adults with prediabetes. The cases and controls were age and gender-matched. Anthropometric measurements including height, weight, waist circumference, and blood pressure were performed. All patients underwent an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) after 8 hours of fasting, and the levels of glucose, insulin, lipids, and uric acid were measured.The levels of non-HDL-C (3.63\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.92 vs 3.27\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.00\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L) were significantly higher in prediabetic subjects than in NGT subjects (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Non-HDL-C positively correlated with HOMA-IR (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.253, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), triglyceride (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.204, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.020), and uric acid (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.487, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000). After multivariate analysis, uric acid continued to be significantly associated with non-HDL-C (\xce\xb2\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.006, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000).Non-HDL-C is elevated in adults with prediabetes. A relationship between non-HDL-C and uric acid was observed. labels: #Adult#Anthropometry#Blood Glucose#Blood Pressure#Body Height#Body Weight#Case-Control Studies#Cholesterol#Fasting#Female#Glucose Intolerance#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Insulin#Lipids#Lipoproteins#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Prediabetic State#Uric Acid#Waist Circumference'
b'PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to explore surgical strategies for effectively treating spine fractures in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and investigate the postoperative outcomes.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 9 patients with AS that was complicated by spine fractures, who underwent surgery at our spine and spinal cord clinic between 2005 and 2012. The surgical methods included posterior instrumentation and bone grafting, with or without decompression. Fracture healing and neurological function recovery were observed postoperatively. The average follow-up period was 45.1 months (range: 24-60).RESULTS: The 9 patients included 7 men and 2 women. Eight patients were treated with long posterior fixation. One patient underwent combined long posterior fixation and anterior bone grafting. The neurological function of these patients improved significantly to varying degrees after surgery, and fracture union and segmental instability of the lumbar vertebrae were radiologically confirmed at the 1-month and 2-year follow-up intervals. Severe surgery-related complications were not observed.CONCLUSIONS: Posterior instrumentation with bone grafting was a satisfying method for treating spine fractures in patients with AS. labels: #Adult#Bone Transplantation#Combined Modality Therapy#Decompression, Surgical#Female#Fracture Fixation#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Spinal Fractures#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Treatment Outcome'
b'Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Due to the poor prognosis for patients not responding to first-line steroids treatment, improvements in aGVHD therapy are needed. Everolimus is a promising candidate that combines immunosuppressive properties with anti-neoplastic effects. Here, we retrospectively reviewed the efficacy of everolimus with steroids as primary treatment in 13 patients with grade II to grade IV aGVHD after HSCT. Among them, 12 (92.3%) had complete response to everolimus with steroids without additional immunosuppressive agents. The median duration of therapy was 76 days (range 20-110). Asymptomatic hypertriglyceridemia was the most common therapy complication (69.2%), but treatment interruption was not needed. Thrombotic microangiopathy was rare (7.7%), but can be quickly solved by stopping everolimus and cyclosporine treatment. Other toxicities were manageable. Two patients developed chronic GVHD (15.4%), limited in one and extensive in the other. The overall survival was 76.9% with a median follow-up of 3.4 years after HSCT (range 0.7-5.7). Accordingly, everolimus with steroids were feasible for patients with aGVHD after HSCT as primary treatment. Further large-scale studies are required. labels: #Acute Disease#Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#Cyclosporine#Drug Therapy, Combination#Everolimus#Feasibility Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Graft vs Host Disease#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Hypertriglyceridemia#Immunosuppressive Agents#Infant#Male#Pilot Projects#Retrospective Studies#Steroids#Thrombotic Microangiopathies#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: We investigated the sudden onset of static equilibrium dysfunction caused by cochlear implantation (CI) in congenital hearing loss patients.METHOD: Twenty-five patients were selected from a cohort of unilateral CI recipients to form the CI group. Static posturography was performed 1 to 3 days before and 3 to 5 days after CI. Each patient underwent the test with eyes open (EO) and eyes closed (EC) for 30\xe2\x80\x8aseconds, separately. Another group of age- and sex-matched patients with no history of hearing impairment undergoing unrelated surgeries formed the control group, and were examined with the same tests pre- and post-surgery. A third group of patients undergoing middle ear surgery formed the otitis media (OM) group. Postural sway parameters including sway velocity (SV) in the X-axis, SV in the Y-axis, length of sway locus length (LNG), and environmental area (ENV) were measured and recorded.RESULTS: Comparison of pre-surgery posturographical parameters between the CI and control groups revealed no significant differences. Significant differences were found in most parameters in pre- and post-surgery comparisons in the CI group. Mean SV values in the X-axis pre- and post-surgery were 8.48 and 11.52\xe2\x80\x8amm/s, respectively, in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), and 14.94 and 20.16\xe2\x80\x8amm/s, respectively, in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). In the Y-axis, mean SV values were 15.36 and 20.24\xe2\x80\x8amm/s pre- and post-surgery, respectively, in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The LNG values in the CI group pre- and post-surgery were 319.60 and 469.88\xe2\x80\x8amm in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), and 571.40 and 764.12\xe2\x80\x8amm in the EC condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). No significant functional equilibrium change was observed in the control group between pre- and post-surgery (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05) except SV in the X-axis and LNG in the EO condition (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). No significant pre- and post-surgery differences were found in the OM group.CONCLUSION: CI appeared to influence static equilibrium function within 1 week post-surgery. This influence was greater when eyes were closed. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Child#Cochlear Implantation#Cochlear Implants#Female#Hearing Loss#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postural Balance#Sensation Disorders#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: The fundamental pathogenesis of Beh\xc3\xa7et disease (BD) is still unclear and controversial. Many cases of oral aphthous ulcers and genital ulcers related to BD are reported; nevertheless, idiopathic giant esophageal ulcers related to BD are rare. A rare case for esophageal ulcers related to BD is presented.PATIENT CONCERNS: In China, BD is represented with esophageal involvement which is called esophageal BD (EBD).DIAGNOSES: A 56-year-old man diagnosed to the Gastroenterology Department of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine Hospital, for multiple discrete, elliptical esophageal ulcers related to BD.INTERVENTIONS: The esophageal ulcers were treated with corticosteroid treatment for 12 weeks.OUTCOME: The esophageal ulcers were cured.LESSONS: Our report might give further strength to avoiding the erroneous diagnosis or missed diagnosis for EBD, which is different from esophageal carcinoma, esophageal tuberculosis and esophageal Crohns disease. labels: #Adrenal Cortex Hormones#Behcet Syndrome#Esophageal Diseases#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Rare Diseases#Treatment Outcome#Ulcer'
b'RATIONALE: The multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as cediranib, sunitinib and pazopanib have been reported to be effective for alveolar soft part sarcoma (ASPS). The efficacy of pazopanib for the patient with lingual ASPS has yet to be reported.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 23-year old man presented with articulation disorder and swelling of the tongue. Diagnosis of lingual ASPS was made after incisional biopsy and complete excision of the mass was performed. Three months later, he presented with a protruding mental region.DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography revealed mental region mass and lung metastasis.INTERVENTIONS: After the failure of combination therapy of doxorubicin and ifosfamide, pazopanib was administered.OUTCOMES: Shrinkage of both the mental region and lung mass continued for more than two months, but regrowth was confirmed at the fourth month.LESSONS: Lingual ASPS is an exceedingly rare subset of ASPS with distinct molecular and histological characteristics and appropriate therapy remains to be established. Our findings suggest a possible therapeutic strategy for lingual ASPS. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Humans#Male#Pyrimidines#Sarcoma, Alveolar Soft Part#Sulfonamides#Tongue Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: Spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma (SSEH) is a relatively rare but potentially disabling disease, and the classical presentation of it includes an acute onset of severe, sometimes radiating back or neck pain, followed by signs and symptoms of rapidly evolving nerve root or spinal cord compression.PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report a 26-year-old female patient presented with weakness in bilateral lower extremities, progressing to intense paraplegia and anesthesia without recent medical history of trauma, infection, surgery, or drug use.DIAGNOSIS: A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of spinal cord was planned and a posterior epidural hematoma of the thoracic spine was observed.INTERVENTIONS: A posterior decompression and hematoma evacuation was performed after diagnosis immediately. Early rehabilitation program of the specific kind spinal cord injury was formulated and implemented.OUTCOMES: The patient finally can handle basic living activities, such as completing wheelchair locomotion, transferring from bed to wheelchair independently after 3 months of rehabilitation.LESSONS: SSEH is a rarely occurring case in emergency. Acute chest pain and paraplegia could be the initial presentation of acute spinal epidural hemorrhage, but the diagnosis of patient without classical manifestations is still a challenge for doctors. Early diagnosis, prompt decompression, and individualized rehabilitation program can improve the prognosis and outcome. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Adult#Decompression, Surgical#Female#Hematoma, Epidural, Spinal#Humans#Paraplegia#Paresis#Thoracic Vertebrae#Treatment Outcome#Wheelchairs'
b'Depression and suicidal ideation are prevalent mental health problems in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD. However, the association between mental health problems and kidney disease has been investigated in severe cases only. Thus, this study evaluated the relationship between mental health problems and renal function in a community-based prospective cohort study comprising patients with mild to moderate kidney disease. A total of 44,938 participants who were participated in Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey IV, V, and VI from 2007 to 2014 were enrolled. Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was calculated using the CKD Epidemiology Collaboration equation. The study outcome was the prevalence of depression and suicidal ideations assessed by self-reporting surveys. Logistic regression analysis was performed to evaluate the relationship between renal function and outcomes. The mean age of the study subjects was 49.2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.6 years, and the mean eGFR was 94.0\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am. The prevalence of depression and suicidal ideation increased with decreasing eGFR. Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that the risk of depression increased in subjects with eGFR<45\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am [odds ratio (OR) 1.47; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.09-1.98]. The risk of suicidal ideation gradually increased in groups with eGFR<90\xe2\x80\x8amL/min/1.73\xe2\x80\x8am (OR, 1.11; 95% CI, 1.03-1.20), even after adjustments for confounding variables. In conclusion, depression and suicidal ideation are related closely with renal dysfunction. The risk of having depression and suicidal ideation increased even in patient with mild renal dysfunction. Therefore, evaluation and management strategies regarding mental health problems should be taken into account throughout all stages of CKD. labels: #Adult#Depression#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nutrition Surveys#Odds Ratio#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Suicidal Ideation#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Uterine niche is defined as a triangular anechoic structure at the site of the scar or a gap in the myometrium at the site of a previous caesarean section. The main clinical manifestations are postmenstrual spotting and intrauterine infection, which may seriously affect the daily life of nonpregnant women. Trials have shown an excellent safety and efficacy for the potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) as a therapeutic option for scar reconstruction. Therefore, this study is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of using MSCs in the treatment for the uterine niche.METHODS/DESIGN: This phase II clinical trial is a single-center, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled with 2 arms. One hundred twenty primiparous participants will be randomly (1:1 ratio) assigned to receive direct intramuscular injection of MSCs (a dose of 1*10 cells in 1\xe2\x80\x8amL of 0.9% saline) (MSCs group) or an identical-appearing 1\xe2\x80\x8amL of 0.9% saline (placebo-controlled group) near the uterine incision. The primary outcome of this trial is to evaluate the proportion of participants at 6 months who is found uterine niche in the uterus by transvaginal utrasonography. Adverse events will be documented in a case report form. The study will be conducted at the Department of Obstetric of Southern Medical University Affiliated Maternal&Child Health Hospital of Foshan.DISCUSSION: This trial is the first investigation of the potential for therapeutic use of MSCs for the management of uterine niche after cesarean delivery.CONCLUSION: This protocol will help to determine the efficacy and safety of MSCs treatment in uterine niche and bridge the gap with regards to the current preclinical and clinical evidence.TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02968459 (Clinical Trials.gov: http://clinicaltrials.gov/). labels: #Adult#Cesarean Section#Cicatrix#Clinical Protocols#Cord Blood Stem Cell Transplantation#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Injections, Intramuscular#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Postoperative Complications#Pregnancy#Prospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Uterine Diseases#Uterus'
b"RATIONALE: Pulmonary alveolar proteinosis (PAP) is a rare lung disorder characterized by the abnormal accumulation of alveolar surfactant protein in alveolar spaces. Secondary PAP can result from myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).PATIENT CONCERNS: But most reports described a single case; here we reported 2 cases of PAP secondary to MDS. One case developed secondary PAP at the same time as MDS, and the other developed during the course of MDS.DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis of PAP was made by bronchoalveolar lavage and based on the identification of periodic acid-Schiff-positive proteinaceous material. Chest high resolution CT (HRCT) scans showed variable distribution of ground glass opacities, but crazy-paving appearance was not seen in our 2 cases.INTERVENTIONS: Because the patients' general conditions were poor, whole lung lavage was not used in the 2 cases.OUTCOMES: And the 2 cases' prognoses were poor.LESSONS: In conclusion, pulmonary physicians should suspect the possibility of secondary PAP when they encounter unexplained pulmonary infiltrates with some hematologic or infectious disease that shows diffuse bilateral GGO on an HRCT scan. labels: #Adult#Aged#Bronchoalveolar Lavage#Female#Humans#Male#Myelodysplastic Syndromes#Prognosis#Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis"
b'We retrospectively compared overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with single (3-5\xe2\x80\x8acm) hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) stage A treated by surgical resection (SR), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), or transarterial chemoembolization (TACE).Of the 38,167 HCC patients registered between 2008 and 2010 at Korea Central Cancer Registry, National Cancer Center of South Korea, 13% patients were randomly abstracted, and 4596 patients could be analyzed. Of these 4596 patients, 337 patients with single 3 to 5\xe2\x80\x8acm sized HCC with BCLC stage A were enrolled. OSs and PFSs among SR (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a151), RFA (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a36), and TACE groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a150) were compared, respectively. Propensity score (PS) weighting was used to adjust differences among 3 groups.Median follow-up duration was 45 months (range, 1-73 months). After PS weighting, the cumulative OS rates were significantly higher in the SR (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and RFA (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.027) groups than in the TACE group, respectively, but not statistically different between SR and RFA groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.116). The cumulative PFS rates were significantly higher in the SR (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and RFA (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) groups than in the TACE group, respectively. TACE (hazard ratio [HR] 2.46, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), serum albumin (HR 0.57, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002), and tumor size (HR 1.66, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were predictors for OS. TACE (HR 3.14, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), serum bilirubin (HR 1.38, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.020), and tumor size (HR 1.32, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024) were predictors for PFS.RFA has better OS and PFS rates than TACE, and provides comparable survival outcomes compared with SR in single (3-5\xe2\x80\x8acm) HCC with BCLC stage A. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Catheter Ablation#Chemoembolization, Therapeutic#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hepatectomy#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Propensity Score#Proportional Hazards Models#Registries#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b"Because of the aging population and the shortage of standardized institutional solutions for long-term care (LTC) in China, family caregivers in Beijing are increasingly called upon to provide home care for disabled older adults. Caregivers face a heavy care burden, and decreased physical and mental health (MH). This study aims to describe health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and to identify its predictors for Chinese family caregivers of disabled older adults.A total of 766 caregivers were recruited from 5 communities in the Dongcheng District of Beijing. Measures included the 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), the Zarit Caregiver Burden Interview (ZBI) scales, and the Chinese Social Support Rating Scale (SSRS). Hierarchical multiple regression (HMR) analysis was used to identify the predictors.HMR analysis showed that each block of independent variables (demographic characteristics of disabled older adults, demographic characteristics of caregivers, caregiving context, and subjective caregiver burden) had contributed significantly to caregivers' physical and mental quality of life. Subjective caregiver burden explained the greatest amount of total variance in all MH subscales and the 2nd greatest amount of variance in most physical subscales. Therefore, subjective caregiver burden was the strongest predictor of HRQoL.Our findings suggest that a decrease in caregiver burden can improve caregivers' HRQoL, and additional social support is important in decreasing the impact of caregiving on HRQoL. Importantly, an LTC system should be established in China as soon as possible. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Beijing#Caregivers#Cost of Illness#Cross-Sectional Studies#Disabled Persons#Female#Health Status#Health Surveys#Humans#Long-Term Care#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Regression Analysis#Social Support"
b'Lymphatic vessel invasion (LVI) is promising in determining prognosis and treatment strategies, but the application of LVI as a histopathological criterion in breast cancer patients especially those of different subgroups is controversial. This research aims to evaluate the prognostic value of LVI assessed by D2-40 not only in patients with early invasive breast cancer but also in lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, luminal B-like, HER2-enriched, and triple-negative subgroups.The study cohort included 255 patients with a median follow-up of 101 months. Immunohistochemical staining for D2-40 was performed to identify LVI.LVI was present in 64 (25.1%), 15 (12.1%), 49 (37.4%), 19 (20.9%), 23 (27.7%), 13 (31.7%), and 9 (22.5%), respectively, in the whole cohort, lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, luminal B-like, HER2-enriched, and triple-negative patients. LVI was associated with large tumor size (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04), high histological grade (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), involved lymph node (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and high expression of Ki-67 (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). No significant difference was found among patients with different subtypes and LVI status. The presence of LVI was significantly associated with adverse disease-free survival in the whole cohort (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), lymph node-negative (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), lymph node-positive (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), luminal A-like (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and luminal B-like patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) in both of the univariate and multivariate survival analysis.This study indicated that the presence of LVI stained by D2-40 provided independent prognostic information not only in the whole cohort but also in the subgroup of patients with lymph node-negative, lymph node-positive, luminal A-like, and luminal B-like diseases, which may make a case for routine clinical assessment of LVI using D2-40. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived#Biomarkers, Tumor#Breast Neoplasms#China#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lymphatic Metastasis#Lymphatic Vessels#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Prognosis'
b'RATIONALE: Infantile desmoid fibromatosis of the postcricoid area is a rare disease and is characterized by a proliferation of fibrous tissue with non-metastasis, local infiltration, and a high rate of recurrence after surgical resection. Currently, ultrasound is scarcely used in the hypopharynx and larynx area.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 4-year-old boy presented with hoarseness, deep voice and snoring for 2\xe2\x88\xbc4 years without any surgical history. On sonography, the lesion was found in the postcricoid area, and the left larynx showed impaired mobility in real time observation. Complete excision with a negative margin in this pivotal anatomic area is impossible, and necessitates a long-time surveillance.DIAGNOSES: Infantile desmoid fibromatosis of the postcricoid area was diagnosed according to surgery and histopathology.INTERVENTIONS: Local excision was carried out to relieve the upper airway narrowing.OUTCOMES: Relieved hoarseness and snoring were reported on the latest follow-up. A residual lesion was seen in the surgical bed and maintained a stable extent on ultrasound and MR imaging after a year.LESSONS: Considering the non-radiation merit and diagnostic ability, ultrasonography is advocated as a valuable supplementary imaging method to CT, MR and laryngoscopy in the juvenile larynx and hypopharynx. labels: #Child, Preschool#Cricoid Cartilage#Fibromatosis, Aggressive#Hoarseness#Humans#Laryngeal Neoplasms#Male#Ultrasonography'
b'Iron is an intracellular element whose accumulation in the body is associated with tissue damage. This study examines the effect of iron on pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and its "response to treatment." At the end of the first year of treatment, bone marrow iron store (BMIS) was evaluated in children with ALL and the relationship between iron store and minimal residual disease was investigated. Moreover, the 3-year disease-free survival (3-DFS) of patients was determined. Patients\' BMIS were compared with that of subjects with normal bone marrow. The study examined 93 children, including 78 Pre-B and 15 T-cell ALL patients. BMIS did not differ between the children with ALL and those with no evidence of cancer. BMIS was increased in 26.6% of patients at the end of the first year of treatment. Drug resistance and BM relapses were more prevalent in cases with high BMIS in both Pre-B and T-cell groups. Bone marrow iron store is not considered a risk factor for childhood ALL. However, high levels of BMIS are associated with poor response to treatment and the risk of relapse. Bone marrow iron store control during treatment can therefore help achieve better outcomes and improve the chances of recovery. labels: #Adolescent#Antineoplastic Agents#Bone Marrow#Child#Child, Preschool#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Humans#Infant#Iron#Male#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Tumor chemotherapy could weaken the immune system of patients, which might enhance the body sensitivities to the exogenous pathogens, among which the hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection should be concerned because of the higher chances of infection and the severe outcomes, especially in East Asia. The titer level of hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb) higher than 10\xe2\x80\x8aIU/L is considered to offer immunocompetent individuals adequate protection. However, whether this level is enough to the tumor patients during chemotherapy remains unclear.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 58-year-old female lymphoma patient was admitted to our hospital for asthenia, nausea, vomiting, and abnormal liver function lasting over 1 week and diagnosed as acute hepatitis B. The patient just finished a course of chemotherapy with CHOP regimen and had recent record (78.61\xe2\x80\x8aIU/L) of HBsAb positive. The only risk of infection we could found was that the patient had received blood transfusion shortly after chemotherapy from a donor who was recovering from an asymptomatic acute HBV infection.INTERVENTION: The patient was administered with entecavir and glycyrrhizic acid agent, and then the disease was resolved successfully with hepatitis B surface antigen serological conversion.LESSONS: Tumor chemotherapy might have weakened the immune system of the patient and enhanced the body sensitivities to hepatitis B virus, then led to the infection. We concluded that HBsAb-positive status, at least "weakly positive," might not enough to provide protection for tumor patients on chemotherapy though this level was enough for health individuals and donors recuperating from subclinical acute hepatitis B might be another potential risk of HBV infection. labels: #Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Antiviral Agents#Cyclophosphamide#Doxorubicin#Female#Guanine#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B Antibodies#Hepatitis B Surface Antigens#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Lymphoma#Middle Aged#Prednisolone#Transfusion Reaction#Vincristine'
b'Early rehabilitation after surgery for patellar fracture is challenging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the surgical outcome of titanium cable cerclage for patellar fracture in early functional activity.We reviewed a series of 24 patients treated at our hospital with titanium cable. Functional exercises were started early. Patients were followed up for at least 12 months.Fifteen were males and 9 were females. Fracture occurred in the right knee in 13 patients and in the left knee in 11 patients. The most common mode of injury involves a tumble. None of the patients presented with any postoperative complications. The management resulted in satisfactory outcomes.Titanium cable cerclage offers a new strategy in treating patellar fracture. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Bone Wires#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patella#Retrospective Studies#Titanium#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Surgical methods for type II odontoid fracture can be classified into 2 main groups: anterior or posterior approach. A more effective way to achieve bone fusion with the lowest possible surgical risk is needed. Therefore, the aim of our study was to describe and evaluate a novel technique, cable-dragged reduction/cantilever beam internal fixation for the treatment of type II odontoid fracture.This was a retrospective study enrolled 34 patients underwent posterior cable-dragged reduction/cantilever-beam internal fixation surgery. Medical records, rates of reduction, the location of the instrumentation and fracture healing during follow-up were analyzed. Once fracture healing was obtained, instrumentation was removed. Neck pain (scored using a visual analog scale [VAS]), neck stiffness, patient satisfaction, and neck disability index (NDI) were recorded before and after removing the instrumentation during follow-up.The mean duration of follow up was 22.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5.3 months. There was no iatrogenic damage to nerves or blood vessels. Radiographic evaluation showed complete reduction in the 20 patients with fracture displacement and satisfactory fracture healing in all 34 cases. Titanium cable breakage was observed in 4 patients after fracture healing. After removal of instrumentation, significant improvements were seen in neck-pain VAS score, neck stiffness, patient satisfaction, and NDI (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).Posterior cable-dragged reduction/cantilever-beam internal fixation was an optimal salvage maneuver to conventional surgical methods such as anterior screw fixation and C1-C2 screw-rod system. The operative difficulty and incidence of nerve and vascular injury were reduced. Its major disadvantage is the exposure and screw-setting at C3, which is left intact in traditional surgery, and it is suitable only for patients with intact C1 posterior arches. labels: #Adult#Bone Wires#Closed Fracture Reduction#Female#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Fracture Healing#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neck Pain#Odontoid Process#Pain Measurement#Retrospective Studies#Salvage Therapy#Spinal Fractures#Titanium#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'RATIONALE: The nasoseptal flap has been widely used to reconstruct skull base defects with excellent success rates. Recently, there were several attempts to use this flap for other defects. Patient concerns: We present the case of the nasoseptal flap reconstruction after oropharyngeal cancer resection.DIAGNOSIS: The diagnosis of this patient was oropharyngeal T3 squamous cell carcinoma.INTERVENTIONS: The surgical resection included the right radical tonsillectomy, uvular, and part of the soft palate and hard palate. The nasoseptal flap was sutured to the oropharyngeal defect.OUTCOMES: In spite of the radiation therapy, the nasoseptal flap was well healed to the oropharyngeal defect.LESSONS: We suggest that the nasoseptal flap may be a feasible reconstruction option for oropharyngeal defect after oropharyngeal cancer resection. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Humans#Male#Nasal Septum#Oropharyngeal Neoplasms#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgical Flaps#Treatment Outcome'
b'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) for spirometry parameters have been limited to forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), and their ratio. This study examined to identify genetic variants associated with maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV), an important spirometry parameter presenting inspiratory muscle strength.A total of 8842 Korean subjects participated in the Korean Association REsource Consortium were used to identify nucleotide variants associated with MVV and other spirometry parameters through a GWAS. Genetic associations were determined by employing a mixed model that can control background polygenic effects.The analysis revealed 3 nucleotide variants associated with MVV (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10). One (rs1496255) was also associated with FVC and FEV1. The other 2 variants were identified only for MVV and located in the genes of LOC102724340 (rs41434646) and FHIT (rs9833533). In particular, FHIT represses transcriptional activity of \xce\xb2-catenin, a critical protein for growth of skeletal muscle, and thus might have influenced the level of MVV.The current study revealed 2 novel nucleotide variants as genetic association signals for MVV. The association signals were suggested specific for neuromuscular diseases with a restrictive ventilatory impairment. Further studies are required to understand underlying mechanisms for their influence to restrictive lung diseases. labels: #Acid Anhydride Hydrolases#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Carrier Proteins#Female#Forced Expiratory Volume#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Lung#Lung Diseases#Male#Maximal Voluntary Ventilation#Membrane Glycoproteins#Neoplasm Proteins#Republic of Korea#Spirometry#Vital Capacity'
b'Percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage followed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy (PTGBD+LC) is one treatment option for patients with moderate to severe acute cholecystitis (AC). However, the impact of PTGBD on operative difficulties in performing LC is controversial. We designed this retrospective study to clarify the surgical outcomes after PTGBD+LC for the management of patients with moderate to severe AC.The medical records of 85 patients who underwent LC for moderate to severe AC from January 2013 to September 2016 were evaluated. They were divided into 2 groups based on the type of management: group A received PTGBD+LC, and group B received LC without drainage. We compared the patient characteristics, laboratory data which were obtained immediately before surgery or PTGBD at index admission, and surgical outcomes between the 2 groups. We also evaluated possible predictive factors associated with prolonged operative duration after PTGBD+LC.Patients in group A were older and had more comorbidities than those in group B. The laboratory tests obtained at index admission in group A showed higher serum levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and alkaline phosphatase, and lower albumin levels than those in group B. The surgical outcomes after LC were similar between the 2 groups. However, operative duration was significantly shorter in group A (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). In group A, a higher serum level of CRP was a predictive factor for a prolonged operation (hazard ratio 1.126; 95% confidence interval 1.012-1.253; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.029). In conclusion, PTGBD+LC can shorten the operative duration in patients with moderate to severe AC, which might improve surgical outcomes in elderly patients with comorbidities, and elevated CRP values predicted a prolonged operation after PTGBD. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#C-Reactive Protein#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Cholecystitis, Acute#Combined Modality Therapy#Drainage#Elective Surgical Procedures#Female#Gallbladder#Humans#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: More mature or older women are more likely to undergo in vitro fertilization and embryo implant. These women have a greater chance of receiving ergonovine therapy because of a suspected abortion. We present this case report to call attention to a latent lethal adverse effect in everyday obstetric practice using ergonovine. It requires more attention and close monitoring PATIENT CONCERNS:: We presented the case of a 38-year-old female patient with general weakness and mild chest tightness after ergonovine use.DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as transient sick sinus syndrome and complete atrioventricular block with junctional escape rhythm after diagnostic work up.INTERVENTIONS: Conservative treatment with discontinuation of ergonovine and bed rest.OUTCOMES: Her sinus rhythm returned to normal the day after ergonovine was discontinued. The patient remained symptom-free since recovery of her sinus rhythm.LESSONS: Ergonovine may cause symptomatic and lethal bradyarrhythmia. Withdrawal of the causative medication and adequate supportive care can lead to a favorable outcome in these patients. More related cases should be reported. Further evaluation for treatment and prognosis are necessary. labels: #Adult#Atrioventricular Block#Bed Rest#Conservative Treatment#Ergonovine#Female#Humans#Oxytocics#Sick Sinus Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b'This protocol is an extension to: Nat. Protoc. 8, 491-500 (2013); doi:10.1038/nprot.2013.020; published online 14 February 2013RBDmap is a method for identifying, in a proteome-wide manner, the regions of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) engaged in native interactions with RNA. In brief, cells are irradiated with UV light to induce protein-RNA cross-links. Following stringent denaturing washes, the resulting covalently linked protein-RNA complexes are purified with oligo(dT) magnetic beads. After elution, RBPs are subjected to partial proteolysis, in which the protein regions still bound to the RNA and those released to the supernatant are separated by a second oligo(dT) selection. After sample preparation and mass-spectrometric analysis, peptide intensity ratios between the RNA-bound and released fractions are used to determine the RNA-binding regions. As a Protocol Extension, this article describes an adaptation of an existing Protocol and offers additional applications. The earlier protocol (for the RNA interactome capture method) describes how to identify the active RBPs in cultured cells, whereas this Protocol Extension also enables the identification of the RNA-binding domains of RBPs. The experimental workflow takes 1 week plus 2 additional weeks for proteomics and data analysis. Notably, RBDmap presents numerous advantages over classic methods for determining RNA-binding domains: it produces proteome-wide, high-resolution maps of the protein regions contacting the RNA in a physiological context and can be adapted to different biological systems and conditions. Because RBDmap relies on the isolation of polyadenylated RNA via oligo(dT), it will not provide RNA-binding information on proteins interacting exclusively with nonpolyadenylated transcripts. Applied to HeLa cells, RBDmap uncovered 1,174 RNA-binding sites in 529 proteins, many of which were previously unknown. labels: #Algorithms#Binding Sites#Gene Expression#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mass Spectrometry#Oligodeoxyribonucleotides#Protein Binding#Proteolysis#Proteomics#RNA, Messenger#RNA-Binding Motifs#RNA-Binding Proteins#Ultraviolet Rays'
b'We describe a sensitive, robust, high-throughput method for quantifying the ability of metastatic tumor cells to colonize a secondary organ. Metastasis is the leading cause of death in cancer patients, and successful colonization of the secondary organ is the rate-limiting step in the metastatic process; thus, experimental methods that can be used to interrogate the key factors required for this critical step are of great importance. The experimental metastasis assay we detail here includes tail-vein injection of cancer cells into the mouse and determination of the resulting secondary organ colonization, primarily in the lung, 10 d post dosing. This assay can be used to investigate factors that regulate metastatic colonization both at the tumor-cell-intrinsic level (via manipulation of the tumor cells before injection) and at the tumor-cell-extrinsic level (such as the tissue microenvironment, via the use of genetically modified (GM) mice or agents such as antibodies or drugs). Using this method, we have robustly screened more than 950 GM mouse lines to identify novel microenvironmental regulators of metastatic colonization. The experimental details discussed here include choosing of appropriate cell numbers, handling of the cells, selection of recipient animals and injection techniques. Furthermore, we discuss key experimental design considerations, including the choice of the method used to determine metastatic burden and statistical analysis of the results, as well as provide troubleshooting tips and identification of factors that contribute to experimental variability. labels: #Animals#Breast Neoplasms#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Cell Line, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Gene Editing#High-Throughput Screening Assays#Humans#Injections, Intravenous#Lung Neoplasms#Melanoma, Experimental#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Transplantation'
b'During 2014, 120,000 persons in the United States and Puerto Rico began treatment for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) (i.e., kidney failure requiring dialysis or transplantation) (1). Among these persons, 44% (approximately 53,000 persons) had diabetes listed as the primary cause of ESRD (ESRD-D) (1). Although the number of persons initiating ESRD-D treatment each year has increased since 1980 (1,2), the ESRD-D incidence rate among persons with diagnosed diabetes has declined since the mid-1990s (2,3). To determine whether ESRD-D incidence has continued to decline in the United States overall and in each state, the District of Columbia (DC), and Puerto Rico, CDC analyzed 2000-2014 data from the U.S. Renal Data System and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. During that period, the age-standardized ESRD-D incidence among persons with diagnosed diabetes declined from 260.2 to 173.9 per 100,000 diabetic population (33%), and declined significantly in most states, DC, and Puerto Rico. No state experienced an increase in ESRD-D incidence rates. Continued awareness of risk factors for kidney failure and interventions to improve diabetes care might sustain and improve these trends. labels: #Adult#Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System#Diabetes Complications#Humans#Incidence#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Puerto Rico#Risk Factors#United States'
b'PROBLEM/CONDITION: Many rural residents work in the field of agriculture; however, employment in nonagricultural jobs also is common. Because previous studies in rural communities often have focused on agricultural workers, much less is known about the occupational exposures in other types of jobs in rural settings. Characterizing airborne occupational exposures that can contribute to respiratory diseases is important so that differences between rural and urban working populations can be assessed.REPORTING PERIOD: 1994-2011.DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM: This investigation used data from the baseline questionnaire completed by adult rural residents participating in the Keokuk County Rural Health Study (KCRHS). The distribution of jobs and occupational exposures to vapor-gas, dust, and fumes (VGDF) among all participants was analyzed and stratified by farming status (current, former, and never) then compared with a cohort of urban workers from the Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA). Occupational exposure in the last job was assessed with a job-exposure matrix (JEM) developed for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The COPD JEM assesses VGDF exposure at levels of none or low, medium, and high.RESULTS: The 1,699 KCRHS (rural) participants were more likely to have medium or high occupational VGDF exposure (43.2%) at their last job than their urban MESA counterparts (15.0% of 3,667 participants). One fifth (20.8%) of the rural participants currently farmed, 43.1% were former farmers, and approximately one third (36.1%) had never farmed. These three farming groups differed in VGDF exposure at the last job, with the prevalence of medium or high exposure at 80.2% for current farmers, 38.7% for former farmers, and 27.4% for never farmers, and all three percentages were higher than the 15.0% medium or high level of VGDF exposure for urban workers.INTERPRETATION: Rural workers, including those who had never farmed, were more likely to experience occupational VGDF exposure than urban workers.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: The occupational exposures of rural adults assessed using the COPD JEM will be used to investigate their potential association with obstructive respiratory health problems (e.g., airflow limitation and chronic bronchitis). This assessment might highlight occupations in need of preventive interventions. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Air Pollutants, Occupational#Cohort Studies#Dust#Female#Gases#Humans#Iowa#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Diseases#Occupational Exposure#Occupations#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Rural Population#Surveys and Questionnaires#Urban Population#Young Adult'
b"Preliminary estimates of U.S. drug overdose deaths exceeded 60,000 in 2016 and were partially driven by a fivefold increase in overdose deaths involving synthetic opioids (excluding methadone), from 3,105 in 2013 to approximately 20,000 in 2016 (1,2). Illicitly manufactured fentanyl, a synthetic opioid 50-100 times more potent than morphine, is primarily responsible for this rapid increase (3,4). In addition, fentanyl analogs such as acetylfentanyl, furanylfentanyl, and carfentanil are being detected increasingly in overdose deaths (5,6) and the illicit opioid drug supply (7). Carfentanil is estimated to be 10,000 times more potent than morphine (8). Estimates of the potency of acetylfentanyl and furanylfentanyl vary but suggest that they are less potent than fentanyl (9). Estimates of relative potency have some uncertainty because illicit fentanyl analog potency has not been evaluated in humans. This report describes opioid overdose deaths during July-December 2016 that tested positive for fentanyl, fentanyl analogs, or U-47700, an illicit synthetic opioid, in 10 states participating in CDC's Enhanced State Opioid Overdose Surveillance (ESOOS) program.* Fentanyl analogs are similar in chemical structure to fentanyl but not routinely detected because specialized toxicology testing is required. Fentanyl was detected in at least half of opioid overdose deaths in seven of 10 states, and 57% of fentanyl-involved deaths also tested positive for other illicit drugs, such as heroin. Fentanyl analogs were present in>10% of opioid overdose deaths in four states, with carfentanil, furanylfentanyl, and acetylfentanyl identified most frequently. Expanded surveillance for opioid overdoses, including testing for fentanyl and fentanyl analogs, assists in tracking the rapidly changing illicit opioid market and informing innovative interventions designed to reduce opioid overdose deaths. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Benzamides#Drug Overdose#Female#Fentanyl#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#United States#Young Adult"
b'In 1988, the World Health Assembly launched the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI) (1). Among the three wild poliovirus (WPV) serotypes, only type 1 (WPV1) has been detected since 2012. Since 2014, detection of WPV1 has been limited to three countries, with 37 cases in 2016 and 11 cases in 2017 as of September 27. The>99.99% decline worldwide in polio cases since the launch of the GPEI is attributable to the extensive use of the live, attenuated oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) in mass vaccination campaigns and comprehensive national routine immunization programs. Despite its well-established safety record, OPV use can be associated with rare emergence of genetically divergent vaccine-derived polioviruses (VDPVs) whose genetic drift from the parental OPV strains indicates prolonged replication or circulation (2). VDPVs can also emerge among persons with primary immunodeficiencies (PIDs). Immunodeficiency-associated VDPVs (iVDPVs) can replicate for years in some persons with PIDs. In addition, circulating vaccine-derived polioviruses (cVDPVs) can emerge very rarely among immunologically normal vaccine recipients and their contacts in areas with inadequate OPV coverage and can cause outbreaks of paralytic polio. This report updates previous summaries regarding VDPVs (3). During January 2016-June 2017, new cVDPV outbreaks were identified, including two in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) (eight cases), and another in Syria (35 cases), whereas the circulation of cVDPV type 2 (cVDPV2) in Nigeria resulted in cVDPV2 detection linked to a previous emergence. The last confirmed case from the 2015-2016 cVDPV type 1 (cVDPV1) outbreak in Laos occurred in January 2016. Fourteen newly identified persons in 10 countries were found to excrete iVDPVs, and three previously reported patients in the United Kingdom and Iran (3) were still excreting type 2 iVDPV (iVDPV2) during the reporting period. Ambiguous VDPVs (aVDPVs), isolates that cannot be classified definitively, were found among immunocompetent persons and environmental samples in 10 countries. Cessation of all OPV use after certification of polio eradication will eliminate the risk for new VDPV infections. labels: #Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Global Health#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Infant#Male#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus#Poliovirus Vaccine, Oral#Serotyping#Sewage#Vaccines, Attenuated'
b"Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe pediatric diarrhea globally, estimated to have caused 120,000 deaths among children aged<5 years in sub-Saharan Africa in 2013 (1). In 2009, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended rotavirus vaccination for all infants worldwide (2). Two rotavirus vaccines are currently licensed globally: the monovalent Rotarix vaccine (RV1, GlaxoSmithKline; 2-dose series) and the pentavalent RotaTeq vaccine (RV5, Merck; 3-dose series). This report describes progress of rotavirus vaccine introduction (3), coverage (using estimates from WHO and the United Nations Children's Fund [UNICEF]) (4), and impact on pediatric diarrhea hospitalizations in the WHO African Region. By December 2016, 31 (66%) of 47 countries in the WHO African Region had introduced rotavirus vaccine, including 26 that introduced RV1 and five that introduced RV5. Among these countries, rotavirus vaccination coverage (completed series) was 77%, according to WHO/UNICEF population-weighted estimates. In 12 countries with surveillance data available before and after vaccine introduction, the proportion of pediatric diarrhea hospitalizations that were rotavirus-positive declined 33%, from 39% preintroduction to 26% following rotavirus vaccine introduction. These results support introduction of rotavirus vaccine in the remaining countries in the region and continuation of rotavirus surveillance to monitor impact. labels: #Africa#Child, Preschool#Feces#Humans#Immunization Programs#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Population Surveillance#Rotavirus#Rotavirus Infections#Rotavirus Vaccines#World Health Organization"
b'Vaccination is the most effective intervention to reduce morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable diseases in young children (1). Data from the 2016 National Immunization Survey-Child (NIS-Child) were used to assess coverage with recommended vaccines (2) among children aged 19-35 months in the United States. Coverage remained \xe2\x89\xa590% for \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of poliovirus vaccine (91.9%), \xe2\x89\xa51 dose of measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine (MMR) (91.1%), \xe2\x89\xa51 dose of varicella vaccine (90.6%), and \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of hepatitis B vaccine (HepB) (90.5%). Coverage in 2016 was approximately 1-2 percentage points lower than in 2015 for \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine (DTaP), \xe2\x89\xa53 doses of poliovirus vaccine, the primary Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) series, \xe2\x89\xa53 HepB doses, and \xe2\x89\xa53 and \xe2\x89\xa54 doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), with no changes for other vaccines. More direct evaluation of trends by month and year of birth (3) found no change in coverage by age 2 years among children included in combined data from the 2015 and 2016 NIS-Child (born January 2012 through January 2015). The observed decreases in annual estimates might result from random differences in vaccination coverage by age 19 months between children sampled in 2016 and those sampled in 2015, among those birth cohorts eligible to be sampled in both survey years. For most vaccines, 2016 coverage was lower among non-Hispanic black* (black) children than among non-Hispanic white (white) children, and for children living below the federal poverty level\xe2\x80\xa0compared with those living at or above the poverty level. Vaccination coverage was generally lower among children insured by Medicaid (2.5-12.0 percentage points), and was much lower among uninsured children (12.4-24.9 percentage points), than among children with private insurance. The Vaccines for Children\xc2\xa7(VFC) program was designed to increase access to vaccines among children who might not otherwise be vaccinated because of inability to pay. Greater awareness and facilitating use of VFC might be helpful in reducing these disparities. Efforts should also be focused on minimizing breaks in continuity of health insurance and eliminating missed opportunities to vaccinate children during visits to health care providers. Despite the observed disparities and small changes in coverage from 2015, vaccination coverage among children aged 19-35 months remained high and stable in 2016. labels: #Child, Preschool#Ethnic Groups#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Insurance, Health#Poverty#United States#Vaccination#Vaccines'
b'Cyanobacteria, also known as blue-green algae, are photosynthetic, aquatic organisms found in fresh, brackish, and marine water around the world (1). Rapid proliferation and accumulation of potentially toxin-producing cyanobacteria characterize one type of harmful algal bloom (HAB). HABs have the potential to cause illness in humans and animals (2,3); however, the epidemiology of these illnesses has not been well characterized. Statewide in 2015, a total of 139 HABs were identified in New York, 97 (70%) of which were confirmed through laboratory analysis; 77 independent beach closures were ordered at 37 beaches on 20 different bodies of water. To better characterize HAB-associated illnesses, during June-September 2015, the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH) implemented a pilot surveillance system in 16 New York counties. Activities included the collection of data from environmental HAB reports, illness reports, poison control centers, and syndromic surveillance, and increased outreach to the public, health care providers, and veterinarians. During June-September, 51 HAB-associated illnesses were reported, including 35 that met the CDC case definitions*; 32 of the cases occurred in humans and three in dogs. In previous years, New York never had more than 10 HAB-associated illnesses reported statewide. The pilot surveillance results from 16 counties during a 4-month period suggest that HAB-associated illnesses might be more common than previously reported. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Female#Harmful Algal Bloom#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#New York#Pilot Projects#Population Surveillance#Young Adult'
b"In 2016, 55 jurisdictions in 49 states and six cities in the United States* used immunization information systems (IISs) to collect and manage immunization data and support vaccination providers and immunization programs. To monitor progress toward achieving IIS program goals, CDC surveys jurisdictions through an annual self-administered IIS Annual Report (IISAR). Data from the 2013-2016 IISARs were analyzed to assess progress made in four priority areas: 1) data completeness, 2) bidirectional exchange of data with electronic health record systems, 3) clinical decision support for immunizations, and 4) ability to generate childhood vaccination coverage estimates. IIS participation among children aged 4 months through 5 years increased from 90% in 2013 to 94% in 2016, and 33 jurisdictions reported \xe2\x89\xa595% of children aged 4 months through 5 years participating in their IIS in 2016. Bidirectional messaging capacity in IISs increased from 25 jurisdictions in 2013 to 37 in 2016. In 2016, nearly all jurisdictions (52 of 55) could provide automated provider-level coverage reports, and 32 jurisdictions reported that their IISs could send vaccine forecasts to providers via Health Level 7 (HL7) messaging, up from 17 in 2013. Incremental progress was made in each area since 2013, but continued effort is needed to implement these critical functionalities among all IISs. Success in these priority areas, as defined by the IIS Functional Standards (1), bolsters clinicians' and public health practitioners' ability to attain high vaccination coverage in pediatric populations, and prepares IISs to develop more advanced functionalities to support state/local immunization services. Success in these priority areas also supports the achievement of federal immunization objectives, including the use of IISs as supplemental sampling frames for vaccination coverage surveys like the National Immunization Survey (NIS)-Child, reducing data collection costs, and supporting increased precision of state-level estimates. labels: #Child, Preschool#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Immunization#Immunization Programs#Infant#Information Systems#Program Evaluation#United States"
b'Natural sounds convey perceptually relevant information over multiple timescales, and the necessary extraction of multi-timescale information requires the auditory system to work over distinct ranges. The simplest hypothesis suggests that temporal modulations are encoded in an equivalent manner within a reasonable intermediate range. We show that the human auditory system selectively and preferentially tracks acoustic dynamics concurrently at 2 timescales corresponding to the neurophysiological theta band (4-7 Hz) and gamma band ranges (31-45 Hz) but, contrary to expectation, not at the timescale corresponding to alpha (8-12 Hz), which has also been found to be related to auditory perception. Listeners heard synthetic acoustic stimuli with temporally modulated structures at 3 timescales (approximately 190-, approximately 100-, and approximately 30-ms modulation periods) and identified the stimuli while undergoing magnetoencephalography recording. There was strong intertrial phase coherence in the theta band for stimuli of all modulation rates and in the gamma band for stimuli with corresponding modulation rates. The alpha band did not respond in a similar manner. Classification analyses also revealed that oscillatory phase reliably tracked temporal dynamics but not equivalently across rates. Finally, mutual information analyses quantifying the relation between phase and cochlear-scaled correlations also showed preferential processing in 2 distinct regimes, with the alpha range again yielding different patterns. The results support the hypothesis that the human auditory system employs (at least) a 2-timescale processing mode, in which lower and higher perceptual sampling scales are segregated by an intermediate temporal regime in the alpha band that likely reflects different underlying computations. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Auditory Perception#Behavior#Biomarkers#Electroencephalography#Evoked Potentials, Auditory#Female#Gamma Rhythm#Humans#Male#Nervous System Physiological Phenomena#Theta Rhythm#Time Factors#Young Adult'
b'Divergence of upstream regulatory pathways of the transcription factor Doublesex (Dsx) serves as a basis for evolution of sex-determining mechanisms in animals. However, little is known about the regulation of Dsx in environmental sex determination. In the crustacean Daphnia magna, environmental sex determination is implemented by male-specific expression of the Dsx ortholog, Dsx1. Transcriptional regulation of Dsx1 comprises at least three phases during embryogenesis: non-sex-specific initiation, male-specific up-regulation, and its maintenance. Herein, we demonstrate that the male-specific up-regulation is controlled by the bZIP transcription factor, Vrille (Vri), an ortholog of the circadian clock genes-Drosophila Vri and mammalian E4BP4/NFIL3. Sequence analysis of the Dsx1 promoter/enhancer revealed a conserved element among two Daphnia species (D. magna and D. pulex), which contains a potential enhancer harboring a consensus Vri binding site overlapped with a consensus Dsx binding site. Besides non-sex-specific expression of Vri in late embryos, we found male-specific expression in early gastrula before the Dsx1 up-regulation phase begins. Knockdown of Vri in male embryos showed reduction of Dsx1 expression. In addition, transient overexpression of Vri in early female embryos up-regulated the expression of Dsx1 and induced male-specific trait. Targeted mutagenesis using CRISPR/Cas9 disrupted the enhancer on genome in males, which led to the reduction of Dsx1 expression. These results indicate that Vri was co-opted as a transcriptional activator of Dsx1 in environmental sex determination of D. magna. The data suggests the remarkably plastic nature of gene regulatory network in sex determination. labels: #Animals#Basic-Leucine Zipper Transcription Factors#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Cloning, Molecular#DNA-Binding Proteins#Daphnia#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Loci#Genotyping Techniques#Male#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Sex Determination Processes'
b'Several conditions associated with reduced gastric acid secretion confer an altered risk of developing a gastric malignancy. Helicobacter pylori-induced atrophic gastritis predisposes to gastric adenocarcinoma, autoimmune atrophic gastritis is a precursor of type I gastric neuroendocrine tumours, whereas proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use does not affect stomach cancer risk. We hypothesised that each of these conditions was associated with specific alterations in the gastric microbiota and that this influenced subsequent tumour risk. 95 patients (in groups representing normal stomach, PPI treated, H. pylori gastritis, H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis and autoimmune atrophic gastritis) were selected from a cohort of 1400. RNA extracted from gastric corpus biopsies was analysed using 16S rRNA sequencing (MiSeq). Samples from normal stomachs and patients treated with PPIs demonstrated similarly high microbial diversity. Patients with autoimmune atrophic gastritis also exhibited relatively high microbial diversity, but with samples dominated by Streptococcus. H. pylori colonisation was associated with decreased microbial diversity and reduced complexity of co-occurrence networks. H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis resulted in lower bacterial abundances and diversity, whereas autoimmune atrophic gastritis resulted in greater bacterial abundance and equally high diversity compared to normal stomachs. Pathway analysis suggested that glucose-6-phospahte1-dehydrogenase and D-lactate dehydrogenase were over represented in H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis versus autoimmune atrophic gastritis, and that both these groups showed increases in fumarate reductase. Autoimmune and H. pylori-induced atrophic gastritis were associated with different gastric microbial profiles. PPI treated patients showed relatively few alterations in the gastric microbiota compared to healthy subjects. labels: #Achlorhydria#Adult#Aged#Autoimmune Diseases#Cluster Analysis#Cohort Studies#England#Female#Gastric Mucosa#Gastritis, Atrophic#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Helicobacter Infections#Helicobacter pylori#Hospitals, University#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Proton Pump Inhibitors#Risk#Stomach Neoplasms'
b'Norovirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis worldwide. Despite recent developments in norovirus propagation in cell culture, these viruses are still challenging to grow routinely. Moreover, little is known on how norovirus infects the host cells, except that histo-blood group antigens (HBGAs) are important binding factors for infection and cell entry. Antibodies that bind at the HBGA pocket and block attachment to HBGAs are believed to neutralize the virus. However, additional neutralization epitopes elsewhere on the capsid likely exist and impeding the intrinsic structural dynamics of the capsid could be equally important. In the current study, we investigated a panel of Nanobodies in order to probe functional epitopes that could trigger capsid rearrangement and/ or interfere with HBGA binding interactions. The precise binding sites of six Nanobodies (Nano-4, Nano-14, Nano-26, Nano-27, Nano-32, and Nano-42) were identified using X-ray crystallography. We showed that these Nanobodies bound on the top, side, and bottom of the norovirus protruding domain. The impact of Nanobody binding on norovirus capsid morphology was analyzed using electron microscopy and dynamic light scattering. We discovered that distinct Nanobody epitopes were associated with varied changes in particle structural integrity and assembly. Interestingly, certain Nanobody-induced capsid morphological changes lead to the capsid protein degradation and viral RNA exposure. Moreover, Nanobodies employed multiple inhibition mechanisms to prevent norovirus attachment to HBGAs, which included steric obstruction (Nano-14), allosteric interference (Nano-32), and violation of normal capsid morphology (Nano-26 and Nano-85). Finally, we showed that two Nanobodies (Nano-26 and Nano-85) not only compromised capsid integrity and inhibited VLPs attachment to HBGAs, but also recognized a broad panel of norovirus genotypes with high affinities. Consequently, Nano-26 and Nano-85 have a great potential to function as novel therapeutic agents against human noroviruses. labels: #Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antibody Affinity#Antiviral Agents#Binding Sites, Antibody#Binding, Competitive#Blood Group Antigens#Capsid#Capsid Proteins#Cross Reactions#Crystallography, X-Ray#Dynamic Light Scattering#Epitopes#Kinetics#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Models, Molecular#Norovirus#Protein Conformation#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Single-Domain Antibodies#Thermodynamics'
b'OBJECTIVES: To identify groups at risk of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection, patterns of antimicrobial resistance, and the proportion of patients with MRSA infections but no history of recent hospitalisation.DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Case series of 39 231 patients with S. aureus isolates from specimens processed by the Hunter New England Local Health District (HNELHD) public pathology provider during 2008-2014.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportion of MRSA infections among people with S. aureus isolates; antimicrobial susceptibility of MRSA isolates; origin of MRSA infections (community- or health care-associated); demographic factors associated with community-associated MRSA infections.RESULTS: There were 71 736 S. aureus-positive specimens during the study period and MRSA was isolated from 19.3% of first positive specimens. Most patients (56.9%) from whom MRSA was isolated had not been admitted to a public hospital in the past year. Multiple regression identified that patients with community-associated MRSA were more likely to be younger (under 40), Indigenous Australians (odds ratio [OR], 2.6; 95% CI, 2.3-2.8), or a resident of an aged care facility (OR, 4.7; 95% CI, 3.8-5.8). The proportion of MRSA isolates that included the dominant multi-resistant strain (AUS-2/3-like) declined from 29.6% to 3.4% during the study period (P<0.001), as did the rates of hospital origin MRSA in two of the major hospitals in the region.CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of MRSA in the HNELHD region decreased during the study period, and was predominantly acquired in the community, particularly by young people, Indigenous Australians, and residents of aged care facilities. While the dominance of the multi-resistant strain decreased, new strategies for controlling infections in the community are needed to reduce the prevalence of non-multi-resistant strains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Community-Acquired Infections#Female#Hospitals, Public#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#New South Wales#Oceanic Ancestry Group#Public Health#Regression Analysis#Seasons#Sex Distribution#Staphylococcal Infections#Young Adult'
b'OBJECTIVES: To describe trends in the age-specific incidence of serogroup B invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) in Australia, 1999-2015.DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS: Analysis in February 2017 of de-identified notification data from the Australian National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System of all notifications of IMD in Australia with a recorded diagnosis date during 1999-2015.Major outcomes: IMD notification rates in Australia, 1999-2015, by age, serogroup, Indigenous status, and region.RESULTS: The incidence of meningococcal serogroup B (MenB) disease declined progressively from 1.52 cases per 100 000 population in 2001 to 0.47 per 100 000 in 2015. During 2006-2015, MenB accounted for 81% of IMD cases with a known serogroup; its highest incidence was among infants under 12 months of age (11.1 [95% CI, 9.81-12.2] per 100 000), children aged 1-4 years (2.82 [95% CI, 2.52-3.15]per 100 000), and adolescents aged 15-19 years (2.40 [95% CI, 2.16-2.67] per 100 000). Among the 473 infants under 2 years of age with MenB, 43% were under 7 months and 69% under 12 months of age. The incidence of meningococcal serogroup C (MenC) disease prior to the introduction of the MenC vaccine in 2003 was much lower in infants than for MenB (2.60 cases per 100 000), the rate peaking in people aged 15-19 years (3.32 per 100 000); the overall case fatality rate was also higher (MenC, 8%; MenB, 4%). The incidence of MenB disease was significantly higher among Indigenous than non-Indigenous Australians during 2006-2015 (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 3.8; 95% CI, 3.3-4.5).CONCLUSIONS: Based on disease incidence at its current low endemic levels, priority at risk age/population groups for MenB vaccination include all children between 2 months and 5 years of age, Indigenous children under 10 years of age, and all adolescents aged 15-19 years. Given marked variation in meningococcal disease trends over time, close scrutiny of current epidemiologic data is essential. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Australia#Child#Child, Preschool#Epidemiological Monitoring#Female#Humans#Incidence#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Middle Aged#Neisseria meningitidis#Oceanic Ancestry Group#Serogroup#Vaccination#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Persistent low-level hemolysis (LLH) during continuous-flow mechanical circulatory support is associated with subsequent thrombosis. Free hemoglobin from ongoing hemolysis scavenges nitric oxide (NO) to create an NO deficiency which can augment platelet function leading to a prothrombotic state. The phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, sildenafil, potentiates NO signaling to inhibit platelet function. Accordingly, we investigated the association of sildenafil administration and thrombotic events in patients with LLH during Heart Mate II support.METHODS AND RESULTS: A single-center review of all patients implanted with a Heart Mate II who survived to discharge (n=144). LLH was defined by a discharge lactate dehydrogenase level of 400 to 700 U/L. Patients were categorized as (1) LLH not on sildenafil, (2) LLH on sildenafil, (3) no LLH not on sildenafil, and (4) no LLH on sildenafil. Age, sex, platelet count, and mean platelet volume were similar between groups. Seventeen patients had either device thrombosis or ischemic stroke. Presence of LLH was associated with a greater risk of thrombosis (adjusted hazard ratio, 15; 95% confidence interval, 4.5-50;P<0.001 versus no LLH, not on sildenafil). This risk was reduced in patients with LLH on sildenafil (adjusted hazard ratio, 1.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.2-16.1;P=0.61). Device thrombosis and ischemic stroke were associated with an increase in mean platelet volume (9.6\xc2\xb10.5 to 10.9\xc2\xb10.8 fL,P<0.001). Patients with LLH not on sildenafil had a greater increase in mean platelet volume in comparison to those with LLH on sildenafil (P<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Sildenafil is associated with reduced device thrombosis and ischemic stroke during ongoing LLH on Heart Mate II support. labels: #Brain Ischemia#Chi-Square Distribution#Disease-Free Survival#Heart Failure#Heart-Assist Devices#Hemolysis#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Mean Platelet Volume#Phosphodiesterase 5 Inhibitors#Proportional Hazards Models#Prosthesis Design#Protective Factors#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sildenafil Citrate#Stroke#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy type 1 (SMA1) is a progressive, monogenic motor neuron disease with an onset during infancy that results in failure to achieve motor milestones and in death or the need for mechanical ventilation by 2 years of age. We studied functional replacement of the mutated gene encoding survival motor neuron 1 (SMN1) in this disease.METHODS: Fifteen patients with SMA1 received a single dose of intravenous adeno-associated virus serotype 9 carrying SMN complementary DNA encoding the missing SMN protein. Three of the patients received a low dose (6.7\xc3\x971013vg per kilogram of body weight), and 12 received a high dose (2.0\xc3\x971014vg per kilogram). The primary outcome was safety. The secondary outcome was the time until death or the need for permanent ventilatory assistance. In exploratory analyses, we compared scores on the CHOP INTEND (Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test of Neuromuscular Disorders) scale of motor function (ranging from 0 to 64, with higher scores indicating better function) in the two cohorts and motor milestones in the high-dose cohort with scores in studies of the natural history of the disease (historical cohorts).RESULTS: As of the data cutoff on August 7, 2017, all 15 patients were alive and event-free at 20 months of age, as compared with a rate of survival of 8% in a historical cohort. In the high-dose cohort, a rapid increase from baseline in the score on the CHOP INTEND scale followed gene delivery, with an increase of 9.8 points at 1 month and 15.4 points at 3 months, as compared with a decline in this score in a historical cohort. Of the 12 patients who had received the high dose, 11 sat unassisted, 9 rolled over, 11 fed orally and could speak, and 2 walked independently. Elevated serum aminotransferase levels occurred in 4 patients and were attenuated by prednisolone.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with SMA1, a single intravenous infusion of adeno-associated viral vector containing DNA coding for SMN resulted in longer survival, superior achievement of motor milestones, and better motor function than in historical cohorts. Further studies are necessary to confirm the safety and efficacy of this gene therapy. (Funded by AveXis and others; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02122952 .). labels: #Cohort Studies#Dependovirus#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Genetic Therapy#Genetic Vectors#Historically Controlled Study#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Infusions, Intravenous#Liver Diseases#Male#Motor Skills#Nutritional Support#Respiration, Artificial#Spinal Muscular Atrophies of Childhood#Survival of Motor Neuron 1 Protein"
b"BACKGROUND: There is limited information regarding the effects of spaceflight on the anatomical configuration of the brain and on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces.METHODS: We used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to compare images of 18 astronauts' brains before and after missions of long duration, involving stays on the International Space Station, and of 16 astronauts' brains before and after missions of short duration, involving participation in the Space Shuttle Program. Images were interpreted by readers who were unaware of the flight duration. We also generated paired preflight and postflight MRI cine clips derived from high-resolution, three-dimensional imaging of 12 astronauts after long-duration flights and from 6 astronauts after short-duration flights in order to assess the extent of narrowing of CSF spaces and the displacement of brain structures. We also compared preflight ventricular volumes with postflight ventricular volumes by means of an automated analysis of T1-weighted MRIs. The main prespecified analyses focused on the change in the volume of the central sulcus, the change in the volume of CSF spaces at the vertex, and vertical displacement of the brain.RESULTS: Narrowing of the central sulcus occurred in 17 of 18 astronauts after long-duration flights (mean flight time, 164.8 days) and in 3 of 16 astronauts after short-duration flights (mean flight time, 13.6 days) (P<0.001). Cine clips from a subgroup of astronauts showed an upward shift of the brain after all long-duration flights (12 astronauts) but not after short-duration flights (6 astronauts) and narrowing of CSF spaces at the vertex after all long-duration flights (12 astronauts) and in 1 of 6 astronauts after short-duration flights. Three astronauts in the long-duration group had optic-disk edema, and all 3 had narrowing of the central sulcus. A cine clip was available for 1 of these 3 astronauts, and the cine clip showed upward shift of the brain.CONCLUSIONS: Narrowing of the central sulcus, upward shift of the brain, and narrowing of CSF spaces at the vertex occurred frequently and predominantly in astronauts after long-duration flights. Further investigation, including repeated postflight imaging conducted after some time on Earth, is required to determine the duration and clinical significance of these changes. (Funded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.). labels: #Astronauts#Brain#Cerebral Ventricles#Cerebrum#Humans#Intracranial Pressure#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Middle Aged#Space Flight#Time Factors#Vision Disorders#Weightlessness"
b'BACKGROUND: Among adolescents with type 1 diabetes, rapid increases in albumin excretion during puberty precede the development of microalbuminuria and macroalbuminuria, long-term risk factors for renal and cardiovascular disease. We hypothesized that adolescents with high levels of albumin excretion might benefit from angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and statins, drugs that have not been fully evaluated in adolescents.METHODS: We screened 4407 adolescents with type 1 diabetes between the ages of 10 and 16 years of age and identified 1287 with values in the upper third of the albumin-to-creatinine ratios; 443 were randomly assigned in a placebo-controlled trial of an ACE inhibitor and a statin with the use of a 2-by-2 factorial design minimizing differences in baseline characteristics such as age, sex, and duration of diabetes. The primary outcome for both interventions was the change in albumin excretion, assessed according to the albumin-to-creatinine ratio calculated from three early-morning urine samples obtained every 6 months over 2 to 4 years, and expressed as the area under the curve. Key secondary outcomes included the development of microalbuminuria, progression of retinopathy, changes in the glomerular filtration rate, lipid levels, and measures of cardiovascular risk (carotid intima-media thickness and levels of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein and asymmetric dimethylarginine).RESULTS: The primary outcome was not affected by ACE inhibitor therapy, statin therapy, or the combination of the two. The use of an ACE inhibitor was associated with a lower incidence of microalbuminuria than the use of placebo; in the context of negative findings for the primary outcome and statistical analysis plan, this lower incidence was not considered significant (hazard ratio, 0.57; 95% confidence interval, 0.35 to 0.94). Statin use resulted in significant reductions in total, low-density lipoprotein, and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, in triglyceride levels, and in the ratio of apolipoprotein B to apolipoprotein A1, whereas neither drug had significant effects on carotid intima-media thickness, other cardiovascular markers, the glomerular filtration rate, or progression of retinopathy. Overall adherence to the drug regimen was 75%, and serious adverse events were similar across the groups.CONCLUSIONS: The use of an ACE inhibitor and a statin did not change the albumin-to-creatinine ratio over time. (Funded by the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and others; AdDIT ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01581476 .). labels: #Adolescent#Albuminuria#Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme Inhibitors#Area Under Curve#Child#Creatinine#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Lipids#Male#Medication Adherence'
b'BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy is an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder that is caused by an insufficient level of survival motor neuron (SMN) protein. Nusinersen is an antisense oligonucleotide drug that modifies pre-messenger RNA splicing of the SMN2 gene and thus promotes increased production of full-length SMN protein.METHODS: We conducted a randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, phase 3 efficacy and safety trial of nusinersen in infants with spinal muscular atrophy. The primary end points were a motor-milestone response (defined according to results on the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination) and event-free survival (time to death or the use of permanent assisted ventilation). Secondary end points included overall survival and subgroup analyses of event-free survival according to disease duration at screening. Only the first primary end point was tested in a prespecified interim analysis. To control the overall type I error rate at 0.05, a hierarchical testing strategy was used for the second primary end point and the secondary end points in the final analysis.RESULTS: In the interim analysis, a significantly higher percentage of infants in the nusinersen group than in the control group had a motor-milestone response (21 of 51 infants [41%] vs. 0 of 27 [0%], P<0.001), and this result prompted early termination of the trial. In the final analysis, a significantly higher percentage of infants in the nusinersen group than in the control group had a motor-milestone response (37 of 73 infants [51%] vs. 0 of 37 [0%]), and the likelihood of event-free survival was higher in the nusinersen group than in the control group (hazard ratio for death or the use of permanent assisted ventilation, 0.53; P=0.005). The likelihood of overall survival was higher in the nusinersen group than in the control group (hazard ratio for death, 0.37; P=0.004), and infants with a shorter disease duration at screening were more likely than those with a longer disease duration to benefit from nusinersen. The incidence and severity of adverse events were similar in the two groups.CONCLUSIONS: Among infants with spinal muscular atrophy, those who received nusinersen were more likely to be alive and have improvements in motor function than those in the control group. Early treatment may be necessary to maximize the benefit of the drug. (Funded by Biogen and Ionis Pharmaceuticals; ENDEAR ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02193074 .). labels: #Age of Onset#Disease-Free Survival#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Infant#Injections, Spinal#Male#Motor Skills#Oligonucleotides#Oligonucleotides, Antisense#RNA, Messenger#Respiration, Artificial#Spinal Muscular Atrophies of Childhood#Survival Analysis#Survival of Motor Neuron 2 Protein'
b'The Pantanal is a hotspot for arbovirus studies in South America. Various medically important flaviviruses and alphaviruses have been reported in domestic and wild animals in the region. To expand the knowledge of local arbovirus circulation, a serosurvey for 14 Brazilian orthobunyaviruses was conducted with equines, sheep and free-ranging caimans. Sera were tested for specific viral antibodies using plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT). Monotypic reactions were detected for Maguari, Xingu, Apeu, Guaroa, Murutucu, Oriboca, Oropouche and Nepuyo viruses. Despite the low titers for most of the orthobunyaviruses tested, the detection of monotypic reactions for eight orthobunyaviruses suggests the Pantanal as a region of great orthobunyavirus diversity. The present data, in conjunction with previous studies that detected a high diversity of other arboviruses, ratify the Pantanal as an important natural reservoir for sylvatic and medically important arboviruses in Brazil. labels: #Alligators and Crocodiles#Animals#Animals, Domestic#Animals, Wild#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antibodies, Viral#Brazil#Bunyaviridae Infections#Horse Diseases#Horses#Orthobunyavirus#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Sheep#Sheep Diseases'
b'Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. This risk is magnified by certain antiretrovirals, particularly the protease inhibitor ritonavir, but the pathophysiology of this connection is unknown. We postulated that a major mechanism for antiretroviral-associated cardiac disease is pathologic fibrosis linked to platelet activation with release and activation of transforming growth factor (TGF)-\xce\xb21, and that these changes could be modeled in a murine system. We also sought to intervene utilizing inhaled carbon monoxide (CO) as proof-of-concept for therapeutics capable of regulating TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling and collagen autophagy. We demonstrate decreased cardiac function indices, including cardiac output, ejection fraction and stroke volume, and prominent cardiac fibrosis, in mice exposed to pharmacological doses of ritonavir. Cardiac output and fibrosis correlated with plasma TGF-\xce\xb21 levels. Mice with targeted deletion of TGF-\xce\xb21 in megakaryocytes/platelets (PF4CreTgfb1flox/flox) were partially protected from ritonavir-induced cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis. Inhalation of low dose CO (250ppm), used as a surrogate for upregulation of inducible heme oxygenase/endogenous CO pathways, suppressed ritonavir-induced cardiac fibrosis. This occurred in association with modulation of canonical (Smad2) and non-canonical (p38) TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling pathways. In addition, CO treatment suppressed the M1 pro-inflammatory subset of macrophages and increased M2c regulatory cells in the hearts of RTV-exposed animals. The effects of CO were dependent upon autophagy as CO did not mitigate ritonavir-induced fibrosis in autophagy-deficient LC3-/- mice. These results suggest that platelet-derived TGF-\xce\xb21 contributes to ritonavir-associated cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis, extending the relevance of our findings to other antiretrovirals that also activate platelets. The anti-fibrotic effects of CO are linked to alterations in TGF-\xce\xb21 signaling and autophagy, suggesting a proof-of-concept for novel interventions in HIV/antiretroviral therapy-mediated cardiovascular disease. labels: #Animals#Blood Platelets#Carbon Monoxide#Cardiac Output#Echocardiography#Fibrosis#HIV Protease Inhibitors#Heart Diseases#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Myocardium#Ritonavir#Stroke Volume#Transforming Growth Factor beta1'
b'Asthma represents an episodic and fluctuating behavior characterized with decreased complexity of respiratory dynamics. Several evidence indicate that asthma severity or control is associated with alteration in variability of lung function. The pathophysiological basis of alteration in complexity of breathing pattern in asthma has remained poorly understood. Regarding the point that Rho-kinase is involved in pathophysiology of asthma, in present study we investigated the effect of Rho-kinase inhibition on complexity of respiratory dynamics in a guinea pig model of asthma. Male Dunkin Hartley guinea pigs were exposed to 12 series of inhalations with ovalbumin or saline. Animals were treated by the Rho-kinase inhibitor Y-27632 (1mM aerosols) prior to each allergen challenge. We recorded respiration of conscious animals using whole-body plethysmography. Exposure to ovalbumin induced lung inflammation, airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling including goblet cell hyperplasia, increase in the thickness of airways smooth muscles and subepithelial collagen deposition. Complexity analysis of respiratory dynamics revealed a dramatic decrease in irregularity of respiratory rhythm representing less complexity in asthmatic guinea pigs. Inhibition of Rho-kinase reduced the airway remodeling and hyperreponsiveness, but had no significant effect on lung inflammation and complexity of respiratory dynamics in asthmatic animals. It seems that airway hyperresponsiveness and remodeling do not significantly affect the complexity of respiratory dynamics. Our results suggest that inflammation might be the probable cause of shift in the respiratory dynamics away from the normal fluctuation in asthma. labels: #Amides#Animals#Asthma#Disease Models, Animal#Guinea Pigs#Male#Plethysmography, Whole Body#Pyridines#Respiration#Respiratory Physiological Phenomena#rho-Associated Kinases'
b"This study aimed to explore an evidence-based nursing practice model of CRF management in hospitalized adult patients using the PARIHS evidence-implementation framework as the theoretical structure to provide guidance for similar nursing practices. The implementation of guideline evidence into clinical practice was conducted on the oncology and radiotherapy wards of a university-affiliated hospital. The process of integrating the guideline into the symptom management system of cancer patients was described. The impact of the evidence implementation was evaluated from three aspects: organizational innovations and outcome measures associated with nurses and with patients pre- and post-evidence implementation. During the implementation of evidence into practice on the wards, a nursing process, health education, a quality control sheet and CRF training courses were established. Through this implementation, compliance with evidence related to CRF increased significantly on the two wards, with that of ward B being higher than that of ward A. Regarding nursing outcomes, nursing knowledge, attitude and behavior scores with respect to CRF nursing care increased substantially after its application on the two wards, and the ward B nurses' scoring was higher than that of the ward A nurses. Qualitative analysis concerning the nurses suggested that leadership, patient concern about CRF management, and the need for professional development were the main motivators of the application, whereas the shortage and mobility of nursing human resources and insufficient communication between doctors and nurses were the main barriers. Additionally, most nurses felt more professional and confident about their work. Regarding patient outcomes, patient knowledge, attitude and behavior scores regarding CRF self-management increased significantly. Patients' post-implementation CRF was alleviated compared with the pre-implementation treatment cycle. The PARIHS framework may provide instructive guidance for the incorporation of evidence into practice, and the process-oriented framework might provide greater operational utility of the application. labels: #Adult#Attitude of Health Personnel#Evidence-Based Nursing#Fatigue#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoplasms#Oncology Nursing#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'Recent developments in high throughput genomic assays have opened up the possibility of testing hundreds and thousands of genes simultaneously. However, adhering to the regular statistical assumptions regarding the null distributions of test statistics in such large-scale multiple testing frameworks has the potential of leading to incorrect significance testing results and biased inference. This problem gets worse when one combines results from different independent genomic experiments with a possibility of ending up with gross false discoveries of significant genes. In this article, we develop a meta-analysis method of combining p-values from different independent experiments involving large-scale multiple testing frameworks, through empirical adjustments of the individual test statistics and p-values. Even though, it is based on various existing ideas, this specific combination is novel and potentially useful. Through simulation studies and real genomic datasets we show that our method outperforms the standard meta-analysis approach of significance testing in terms of accurately identifying the truly significant set of genes. labels: #Data Interpretation, Statistical#Empirical Research#Gene Expression#Genes#Genomics#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Meta-Analysis as Topic#Models, Statistical#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis#Statistics as Topic'
b'BACKGROUND: Sleep-related problems are known risk factors for road accidents. However, very few studies have investigated the role played by insomnia and its components, and no data are available for a population of occupational drivers at risk, such as the truck driver category.OBJECTIVE: To measure the prevalence and impact of insomnia on motor vehicle accidents (MVAs) and near-miss accidents (NMAs) in 949 truck drivers.DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey.RESULTS: Insomnia affected 27.5% of the sample. Compared to other drivers, in the 3 years prior to the study, truck drivers with insomnia had reported a significantly higher number of MVAs; they had also reported a greater number of NMAs in the previous 6 months. After correction for the presence of obstructive sleep apnea, excessive daytime sleepiness, short sleep duration, and other concurrent diseases, insomniac truck drivers had an almost two-fold risk of driving accidents (OR: 1.82, CI 95%:1.33-2.49) and a more than three-fold increased risk of near-miss accidents (OR: 3.35, CI95%:2.06-5.45) compared to non-insomniac drivers.CONCLUSION: Insomnia emerged as an independent risk factor for MVAs and NMAs. We strongly advise screening commercial drivers for signs and symptoms of insomnia in order to improve health and safety on the road. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Automobile Driving#Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Vehicles#Occupational Diseases#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'Laboratory mice play a tremendous role in biomedical research in studies on immunology, infection, cancer and therapy. In the course of standardization of mice used in animal experiments, health monitoring constitutes an important instrument towards microbiological standardization. Infections with murine astroviruses (MuAstV) were only recently discovered and are, therefore, still relatively unknown in laboratory animal science. In rodent health monitoring viral infections within a population are commonly assessed in terms of specific antibodies by serological testing, as active infection and excretion of virus is often temporary and can easily be missed. So far only ongoing infections with astroviruses can be detected by PCR. The objective of this work was the development of a sensitive and specific MuAstV multiplex serological assay with a high-throughput capability to be used in routine testing of laboratory mice. Four different MuAstV proteins were recombinantly expressed and used as antigens. The best reacting antigen, the capsid spike protein VP27, was selected and tested with a panel of 400 sera of mice from units with a known MuAstV status. Assay sensitivity and specificity resulted in 98.5% and 100%, respectively, compared to RT-PCR results. Eventually this assay was used to test 5529 serum samples in total, during routine diagnostics at the German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) in Heidelberg between 2015 and 2017. High sero-prevalence rates of up to 98% were detected in units with open cages indicating that the virus is highly infectious and circulates within these populations virtually infecting all animals regardless of the mouse strain. In addition, data collected from 312 mice purchased from commercial breeders and from 661 mice from 58 research institutes in 15 countries worldwide allowed the conclusion that MuAstV is widespread in contemporary laboratory mouse populations. labels: #Animals#Animals, Laboratory#Antibodies, Viral#Astroviridae#Astroviridae Infections#Mice#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sensitivity and Specificity#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Serologic Tests'
b'Adenocarcinoma of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) is a severe disease. Patients carrying EGFR mutations may benefit from EGFR targeted therapies (e.g.: gefitinib). Recently, it has been shown that sialidase NEU3 directly interacts and regulates EGFR. In this work, we investigate the effect of sialidase NEU3 overexpression on EGFR pathways activation and EGFR targeted therapies sensitivity, in a series of lung cancer cell lines. NEU3 overexpression, forced after transfection, does not affect NSCLC cell viability. We demonstrate that NEU3 overexpression stimulates the ERK pathway but this activation is completely abolished by gefitinib treatment. The Akt pathway is also hyper-activated upon NEU3 overexpression, but gefitinib is able only to decrease, and not to abolish, such activation. These findings indicate that NEU3 can act directly on the ERK pathway through EGFR and both directly and indirectly with respect to EGFR on the Akt pathway. Furthermore, we provide evidence that a healthy mucosa cell line (with EGFR wild-type gene sequence) is slightly sensitive to gefitinib, especially in the presence of NEU3 overexpression, thus hypothesizing that NEU3 overexpressing patients may benefit from EGFR targeted therapies also in absence of EGFR point mutations. Overall, the expression of NEU3 may be a novel diagnostic marker in NSCLC because, by its ability to stimulate EGFR downstream pathways with direct and indirect mechanisms, it may help in the identification of patients who can profit from EGFR targeted therapies in absence of EGFR activating mutations or from new combinations of EGFR and Akt inhibitors. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Blotting, Western#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Membrane#Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Neuraminidase#Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Quinazolines#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction'
b'Recent studies have highlighted the importance of local environmental factors to determine the fine-scale heterogeneity of malaria transmission and exposure to the vector. In this work, we compare a classical GLM model with backward selection with different versions of an automatic LASSO-based algorithm with 2-level cross-validation aiming to build a predictive model of the space and time dependent individual exposure to the malaria vector, using entomological and environmental data from a cohort study in Benin. Although the GLM can outperform the LASSO model with appropriate engineering, the best model in terms of predictive power was found to be the LASSO-based model. Our approach can be adapted to different topics and may therefore be helpful to address prediction issues in other health sciences domains. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Anopheles#Humans#Malaria#Models, Statistical'
b"INTRODUCTION: Primary Sj\xc3\xb6gren's Syndrome (pSS) affects exocrine glands such as those producing the tear film, leading to dry and painful eyes, but is also associated with fatigue. The experience of fatigue in pSS, and its relationship with sicca symptoms, is poorly understood.METHODS: Twenty people diagnosed with pSS were recruited to participate in a semi-structured qualitative interview about their symptoms experience. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed verbatim and analysed using thematic analysis.RESULTS: People with pSS described physical tiredness, mental fatigue and ocular fatigue. Mental fatigue was characterised by difficulties in attention, particularly, the ability to follow conversations and short-term memory problems. Participants linked their experience of fatigue to feeling of depression, frustration, irritation and anxiety, and therefore, fatigue was suggested to have had a large impact on their psychological well-being. People with pSS also described a range of ocular symptoms including pain, dryness, and itching, which were compounded by fatigue. For some, eye fatigue was pervasive, and daily activities involving the eyes such as reading, using the computer and driving were impaired. In some cases, the level of ocular discomfort was so severe it prevented sleep, which in turn impacted on general fatigue levels.CONCLUSIONS: People with pSS experience fatigue in a range of ways; physical, mental and ocular fatigue were described. Fatigue was suggested to exacerbate other ocular symptoms, posed serious physical limitations and caused psychological distress. Further research into the nature of fatigue and ocular symptoms in pSS is required. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asthenopia#Fatigue#Female#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Middle Aged#Qualitative Research#Sjogren's Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'Wing morphology strongly affects flight performance which may consequently decline during feather moult due to the creation of feather gaps in the wing. Hence, the size and shape of moult-related wing gap may directly affect flight capacity. Here I examined the rare divergent primary moult sequence compared to the more common descendant moult sequence. In the divergent moult, the focus of primary moult is shifted from P1 (primary feather numbered descendantly) to another primary between P2 and P5, and then primaries are moulted in two concurrent waves, one descendant and the other ascendant. The result of this rare moult sequence is the splitting of the wing gap to two smaller gaps. Using a large moult database including 6,763 individuals of 32 Western Palaearctic passerine species, I found evidence of divergent moult only among 27 individuals of 12 species. I examined the speed of wing-feather moult for each individual that moulted divergently compared to a control group of individuals at the same moult stage which moulted following the common descending sequence. The results indicate that the sequence of primary moult and moult speed are correlated. Individuals which moulted divergently moulted their primaries with higher moult speed than descendant moulters. The applicability of this study is weakened by the dearth of moult data, thus making it difficult to draw conclusions for a large range of species. Ornithologists and bird ringers are therefore encouraged to collect more basic moult data during their field study. labels: #Animals#Feathers#Flight, Animal#Israel#Molting#Passeriformes#Songbirds#Time Factors#Wings, Animal'
b'Vitamin D is a secosteroid hormone with many varied functions including regulation of blood calcium levels, cell proliferation, immunity, and reproduction in mammals. Vitamin D is activated by 25-hydroxylase (CYP2R1) and 1-alpha-hydroxylase (CYP27B1) and is degraded by 24-hydroxylase (CYP24A1). Vitamin D is transported by vitamin D-binding protein (group-specific component, GC) through the bloodstream and regulates cellular actions by binding to vitamin D receptor (VDR). In this study, we determined the expression and regulation of vitamin D-related molecules and the role of vitamin D at the maternal-conceptus interface in pigs. Vitamin D-metabolizing enzymes CYP2R1, CYP27B1, and CYP24A1, vitamin D binding protein GC, and vitamin D receptor VDR were expressed in the endometrium in a pregnancy stage-specific manner as well as in conceptus and chorioallantoic tissues during pregnancy. VDR protein was localized to endometrial and trophoblastic cells. Concentrations of calcitriol, the active form of vitamin D, in the endometrial tissues were higher during early pregnancy than in mid- to late pregnancy, while plasma concentrations of calcitriol were highest during late pregnancy. Furthermore, calcitriol affected the expression of several genes related to conceptus implantation, vitamin D metabolism, calcium ion regulation, PG metabolism, and calcium-binding proteins in endometrial tissue explants. These results show that CYP2R1, CYP27B1, CYP24A1, GC, and VDR were expressed at the maternal-conceptus interface, endometrial calcitriol levels were regulated during pregnancy, and calcitriol modulated the expression of endometrial genes, suggesting that calcitriol may play an important role in the establishment and maintenance of pregnancy by regulating endometrial function in pigs. labels: #25-Hydroxyvitamin D3 1-alpha-Hydroxylase#Animals#Cholestanetriol 26-Monooxygenase#Chorioallantoic Membrane#Endometrium#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Pregnancy#Receptors, Calcitriol#Swine#Vitamin D#Vitamin D-Binding Protein#Vitamin D3 24-Hydroxylase'
b'BACKGROUND: Besides inclusion in 1st line regimens against tuberculosis (TB), pyrazinamide (PZA) is used in 2nd line anti-TB regimens, including in the short regimen for multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) patients. Guidelines and expert opinions are contradictory about inclusion of PZA in case of resistance. Moreover, drug susceptibility testing (DST) for PZA is not often applied in routine testing, and the prevalence of resistance is unknown in several regions, including in most African countries.METHODS: Six hundred and twenty-three culture isolates from rifampicin-resistant (RR) patients were collected in twelve Sub-Saharan African countries. Among those isolates, 71% were from patients included in the study on the Union short-course regimen for MDR-TB in Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central Africa Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ivory Coast, Niger, and Rwanda PZA resistance, and the rest (29%) were consecutive isolates systematically stored from 2014-2015 in Mali, Rwanda, Senegal, and Togo. Besides national guidelines, the isolates were tested for PZA resistance through pncA gene sequencing.RESULTS: Over half of these RR-TB isolates (54%) showed a mutation in the pncA gene, with a significant heterogeneity between countries. Isolates with fluoroquinolone resistance (but not with injectable resistance or XDR) were more likely to have concurrent PZA resistance. The pattern of mutations in the pncA gene was quite diverse, although some isolates with an identical pattern of mutations in pncA and other drug-related genes were isolated from the same reference center, suggesting possible transmission of these strains.CONCLUSION: Similar to findings in other regions, more than half of the patients having RR-TB in West and Central Africa present concomitant resistance to PZA. Further investigations are needed to understand the relation between resistance to PZA and resistance to fluoroquinolones, and whether continued use of PZA in the face of PZA resistance provides clinical benefit to the patients. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Africa South of the Sahara#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Amidohydrolases#Antitubercular Agents#Child#Drug Resistance, Multiple, Bacterial#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Pyrazinamide#Rifampin#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary#Young Adult'
b"Panoramic views of natural environments provide visually navigating animals with two kinds of information: they define locations because image differences increase smoothly with distance from a reference location and they provide compass information, because image differences increase smoothly with rotation away from a reference orientation. The range over which a given reference image can provide navigational guidance (its 'catchment area') has to date been quantified from the perspective of walking animals by determining how image differences develop across the ground plane of natural habitats. However, to understand the information available to flying animals there is a need to characterize the 'catchment volumes' within which panoramic snapshots can provide navigational guidance. We used recently developed camera-based methods for constructing 3D models of natural environments and rendered panoramic views at defined locations within these models with the aim of mapping navigational information in three dimensions. We find that in relatively open woodland habitats, catchment volumes are surprisingly large extending for metres depending on the sensitivity of the viewer to image differences. The size and the shape of catchment volumes depend on the distance of visual features in the environment. Catchment volumes are smaller for reference images close to the ground and become larger for reference images at some distance from the ground and in more open environments. Interestingly, catchment volumes become smaller when only above horizon views are used and also when views include a 1 km distant panorama. We discuss the current limitations of mapping navigational information in natural environments and the relevance of our findings for our understanding of visual navigation in animals and autonomous robots. labels: #Animals#Ecosystem#Environment#Models, Theoretical#Photography#Spatial Navigation"
b'BACKGROUND: Despite the immense literature related to diverse human electroencephalographic (EEG) parameters, very few studies have focused on the reliability of these measures. Some of the most studied components (i.e., P3 or MMN) have received more attention regarding the stability of their main parameters, such as latency, amplitude or topography. However, spectral modulations have not been as extensively evaluated considering that different analysis methods are available. The main aim of the present study is to assess the reliability of the latency, amplitude and topography of event-related desynchronization (ERD) for the alpha band (10-14 Hz) observed in a cognitive task (visual oddball). Topography reliability was analysed at different levels (for the group, within-subjects individually and between-subjects individually).RESULTS: The latency for alpha ERD showed stable behaviour between two sessions, and the amplitude exhibited an increment (more negative) in the second session. Alpha ERD topography exhibited a high correlation score between sessions at the group level (r = 0.903, p<0.001). The mean value for within-subject correlations was 0.750 (with a range from 0.391 to 0.954). Regarding between-subject topography comparisons, some subjects showed a highly specific topography, whereas other subjects showed topographies that were more similar to those of other subjects.CONCLUSION: ERD was mainly stable between the two sessions with the exception of amplitude, which exhibited an increment in the second session. Topography exhibits excellent reliability at the group level; however, it exhibits highly heterogeneous behaviour at the individual level. Considering that the P3 was previously evaluated for this group of subjects, a direct comparison of the correlation scores was possible, and it showed that the ERD component is less reliable in individual topography than in the ERP component (P3). labels: #Adult#Alpha Rhythm#Brain#Cognition#Electroencephalography#Electroencephalography Phase Synchronization#Evoked Potentials#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Reproducibility of Results#Young Adult'
b'Neuroprosthetics research in amputee patients aims at developing new prostheses that move and feel like real limbs. Targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation (TMSR) is such an approach and consists of rerouting motor and sensory nerves from the residual limb towards intact muscles and skin regions. Movement of the myoelectric prosthesis is enabled via decoded electromyography activity from reinnervated muscles and touch sensation on the missing limb is enabled by stimulation of the reinnervated skin areas. Here we ask whether and how motor control and redirected somatosensory stimulation provided via TMSR affected the maps of the upper limb in primary motor (M1) and primary somatosensory (S1) cortex, as well as their functional connections. To this aim, we tested three TMSR patients and investigated the extent, strength, and topographical organization of the missing limb and several control body regions in M1 and S1 at ultra high-field (7 T) functional magnetic resonance imaging. Additionally, we analysed the functional connectivity between M1 and S1 and of both these regions with fronto-parietal regions, known to be important for multisensory upper limb processing. These data were compared with those of control amputee patients (n = 6) and healthy controls (n = 12). We found that M1 maps of the amputated limb in TMSR patients were similar in terms of extent, strength, and topography to healthy controls and different from non-TMSR patients. S1 maps of TMSR patients were also more similar to normal conditions in terms of topographical organization and extent, as compared to non-targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation patients, but weaker in activation strength compared to healthy controls. Functional connectivity in TMSR patients between upper limb maps in M1 and S1 was comparable with healthy controls, while being reduced in non-TMSR patients. However, connectivity was reduced between S1 and fronto-parietal regions, in both the TMSR and non-TMSR patients with respect to healthy controls. This was associated with the absence of a well-established multisensory effect (visual enhancement of touch) in TMSR patients. Collectively, these results show how M1 and S1 process signals related to movement and touch are enabled by targeted muscle and sensory reinnervation. Moreover, they suggest that TMSR may counteract maladaptive cortical plasticity typically found after limb loss, in M1, partially in S1, and in their mutual connectivity. The lack of multisensory interaction in the present data suggests that further engineering advances are necessary (e.g. the integration of somatosensory feedback into current prostheses) to enable prostheses that move and feel as real limbs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Amputation#Artificial Limbs#Brain Mapping#Electromyography#Female#Functional Neuroimaging#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Cortex#Movement#Muscle, Skeletal#Neuronal Plasticity#Skin#Somatosensory Cortex#Touch#Upper Extremity'
b'The presynaptic, high-affinity choline transporter is a critical determinant of signalling by the neurotransmitter acetylcholine at both central and peripheral cholinergic synapses, including the neuromuscular junction. Here we describe an autosomal recessive presynaptic congenital myasthenic syndrome presenting with a broad clinical phenotype due to homozygous choline transporter missense mutations. The clinical phenotype ranges from the classical presentation of a congenital myasthenic syndrome in one patient (p.Pro210Leu), to severe neurodevelopmental delay with brain atrophy (p.Ser94Arg) and extend the clinical outcomes to a more severe spectrum with infantile lethality (p.Val112Glu). Cells transfected with mutant transporter construct revealed a virtually complete loss of transport activity that was paralleled by a reduction in transporter cell surface expression. Consistent with these findings, studies to determine the impact of gene mutations on the trafficking of the Caenorhabditis elegans choline transporter orthologue revealed deficits in transporter export to axons and nerve terminals. These findings contrast with our previous findings in autosomal dominant distal hereditary motor neuropathy of a dominant-negative frameshift mutation at the C-terminus of choline transporter that was associated with significantly reduced, but not completely abrogated choline transporter function. Together our findings define divergent neuropathological outcomes arising from different classes of choline transporter mutation with distinct disease processes and modes of inheritance. These findings underscore the essential role played by the choline transporter in sustaining acetylcholine neurotransmission at both central and neuromuscular synapses, with important implications for treatment and drug selection. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Atrophy#Axons#Brain#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Child, Preschool#Female#HEK293 Cells#Homozygote#Humans#Infant#Male#Membrane Transport Proteins#Mutation, Missense#Myasthenic Syndromes, Congenital#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Pedigree#Presynaptic Terminals#Protein Transport#Symporters'
b"Objectives: To describe the disease characteristics, continuous course and long-term outcome and to evaluate predictors of outcome in JIA in Greece.Methods: We performed a retrospective cohort analysis of 17 years' prospective data on JIA. Outcome assessment included radiographic (modified Sharp-van der Heidje score), articular and extra-articular damage (Juvenile Arthritis Damage Index), functional ability (HAQ Disability Index), and the cumulative percentage time spent in a state of active disease and also in clinical remission off medication (CR) (according to Wallace's criteria).Results: One hundred and two (72 females) patients under regular follow-up were enrolled. The disease age of onset [mean (SD)] was 7.7 (4) years, the interval from onset to last visit was 17.2 (6.7) years and the patients' current age was 25 (5.9) years. At the last follow-up visit, 53 patients (52%) had disease activity, while 23.5% were in CR. The cumulative percentage time spent in a state of active disease and CR over the disease course was 52.6 and 17.8%, respectively. Polyarticular subtype of onset and longer disease activity during the first 5 years were independent predictors of worse outcome. Additional telephone-based interviews of 205 former JIA patients who had been lost to follow-up as adults were performed to extend the interpretation of our findings to a broader JIA population. Almost half (47.6%) of the total cohort of 307 patients were found to be in CR at the final evaluation and 69.7% had no disability.Conclusion: The available data indicate that JIA as a whole is a heterogeneous disease with significant variability in course and long-term outcome. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Adolescent#Adult#Antibodies, Antinuclear#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Juvenile#Blood Sedimentation#C-Reactive Protein#Cohort Studies#Disease Progression#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Greece#Humans#Male#Peptides, Cyclic#Prognosis#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors#Uveitis#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: Clinicians treating older patients with bipolar disorder with mood stabilizers need evidence from age-specific randomized controlled trials. The authors describe findings from a first such study of late-life mania.METHOD: The authors compared the tolerability and efficacy of lithium carbonate and divalproex in 224 inpatients and outpatients age 60 or older with bipolar I disorder who presented with a manic, hypomanic, or mixed episode. Participants were randomly assigned, under double-blind conditions, to treatment with lithium (target serum concentration, 0.80-0.99 mEq/L) or divalproex (target serum valproate concentration, 80-99 \xce\xbcg/mL) for 9 weeks. Participants with an inadequate response after 3 weeks received open adjunctive risperidone. The authors hypothesized that divalproex would be better tolerated and more efficacious than lithium. Tolerability was assessed based on a measure of sedation and on the proportions of participants achieving target concentrations. Efficacy was assessed with the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS).RESULTS: Attrition rates were similar for lithium and divalproex (14% and 18% at week 3 and 51% and 44% at week 9, respectively). The groups did not differ significantly in sedation. Participants in the lithium group tended to experience more tremor. Similar proportions of participants in the lithium and divalproex groups achieved target concentrations (57% and 56%, respectively). A longitudinal mixed model of improvement (change from baseline in YMRS score) favored lithium (change in score, 3.90; 97.5% CI=1.71, 6.09). Nine-week response rates did not differ significantly between the lithium and divalproex groups (79% and 73%, respectively). The need for adjunctive risperidone was low and similar between groups (17% and 14%, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Both lithium and divalproex were adequately tolerated and efficacious; lithium was associated with a greater reduction in mania scores over 9 weeks. labels: #Aged#Antimanic Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Bipolar Disorder#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Lithium Carbonate#Male#Middle Aged#Risperidone#Treatment Outcome#Valproic Acid'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine if circulating concentrations of vitamin D are causally associated with risk of cancer.Design\xc2\xa0Mendelian randomisation study.Setting\xc2\xa0Large genetic epidemiology networks (the Genetic Associations and Mechanisms in Oncology (GAME-ON), the Genetic and Epidemiology of Colorectal Cancer Consortium (GECCO), and the Prostate Cancer Association Group to Investigate Cancer Associated Alterations in the Genome (PRACTICAL) consortiums, and the MR-Base platform).Participants\xc2\xa070\xe2\x80\x89563 cases of cancer (22\xe2\x80\x89898 prostate cancer, 15\xe2\x80\x89748 breast cancer, 12\xe2\x80\x89537 lung cancer, 11\xe2\x80\x89488 colorectal cancer, 4369 ovarian cancer, 1896 pancreatic cancer, and 1627 neuroblastoma) and 84\xe2\x80\x89418 controls.Exposures\xc2\xa0Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (rs2282679, rs10741657, rs12785878 and rs6013897) associated with vitamin D were used to define a multi-polymorphism score for circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations.Main outcomes measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcomes were the risk of incident colorectal, breast, prostate, ovarian, lung, and pancreatic cancer and neuroblastoma, which was evaluated with an inverse variance weighted average of the associations with specific polymorphisms and a likelihood based approach. Secondary outcomes based on cancer subtypes by sex, anatomic location, stage, and histology were also examined.Results\xc2\xa0There was little evidence that the multi-polymorphism score of 25(OH)D was associated with risk of any of the seven cancers or their subtypes. Specifically, the odds ratios per 25 nmol/L increase in genetically determined 25(OH)D concentrations were 0.92 (95% confidence interval 0.76 to 1.10) for colorectal cancer, 1.05 (0.89 to 1.24) for breast cancer, 0.89 (0.77 to 1.02) for prostate cancer, and 1.03 (0.87 to 1.23) for lung cancer. The results were consistent with the two different analytical approaches, and the study was powered to detect relative effect sizes of moderate magnitude (for example, 1.20-1.50 per 25 nmol/L decrease in 25(OH)D for most primary cancer outcomes. The Mendelian randomisation assumptions did not seem to be violated.Conclusions\xc2\xa0There is little evidence for a linear causal association between circulating vitamin D concentration and risk of various types of cancer, though the existence of causal clinically relevant effects of low magnitude cannot be ruled out. These results, in combination with previous literature, provide evidence that population-wide screening for vitamin D deficiency and subsequent widespread vitamin D supplementation should not currently be recommended as a strategy for primary cancer prevention. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Case-Control Studies#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Incidence#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Mendelian Randomization Analysis#Neoplasms#Neuroblastoma#Ovarian Neoplasms#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk Assessment#Vitamin D#Vitamin D Deficiency'
b"OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness and population impact of the national implementation of the Study of Technology to Accelerate Research (STAR) intervention for childhood obesity.METHODS: In the STAR cluster-randomized trial, 6- to 12-year-old children with obesity seen at pediatric practices with electronic health record (EHR)-based decision support for primary care providers and self-guided behavior-change support for parents had significantly smaller increases in BMI than children who received usual care. We used a microsimulation model of a national implementation of STAR from 2015 to 2025 among all pediatric primary care providers in the United States with fully functional EHRs to estimate cost, impact on obesity prevalence, and cost-effectiveness.RESULTS: The expected population reach of a 10-year national implementation is \xe2\x88\xbc2 million children, with intervention costs of $119 per child and $237 per BMI unit reduced. At 10 years, assuming maintenance of effect, the intervention is expected to avert 43\xe2\x80\x89000 cases and 226\xe2\x80\x89000 life-years with obesity at a net cost of $4085 per case and $774 per life-year with obesity averted. Limiting implementation to large practices and using higher estimates of EHR adoption improved both cost-effectiveness and reach, whereas decreasing the maintenance of the intervention's effect worsened the former.CONCLUSIONS: A childhood obesity intervention with electronic decision support for clinicians and self-guided behavior-change support for parents may be more cost-effective than previous clinical interventions. Effective and efficient interventions that target children with obesity are necessary and could work in synergy with population-level prevention strategies to accelerate progress in reducing obesity prevalence. labels: #Body Mass Index#Child#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Decision Making, Computer-Assisted#Early Medical Intervention#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Male#Pediatric Obesity#United States"
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Growth is an important criterion to evaluate health in childhood and adolescence, especially in patients depending on special dietary treatment. Phenylketonuria (PKU) is the most common inherited disease of amino acid metabolism. Patients with PKU depend on a special phenylalanine-restricted diet, low in natural protein. The study aimed to evaluate growth, growth rate, and target height in 224 patients with PKU.METHODS: Retrospective, longitudinal analysis of standardized, yearly measurements of height, weight, and calculated growth rate (SD score [SDS]) of patients with PKU aged 0 to 18 years were conducted by using the national computerized CrescNet database. Inclusion was restricted to patients carried to term with a confirmed diagnosis of PKU or mild hyperphenylalaninemia determined by newborn screening and early treatment initiation.RESULTS: From birth to adulthood, patients with PKU were significantly shorter than healthy German children (height SDS at 18 years: -0.882 \xc2\xb1 0.108,P<.001). They missed their target height by 3 cm by adulthood (women:P= .02) and 5 cm (men:P= .01). In patients receiving casein hydrolysate during childhood, this was more pronounced compared with patients receiving amino acid mixtures (P<.001). Growth rate was significantly reduced during their first 2 years of life and in puberty (growth rate SDS: -1.1 to -0.5 m/year,P<.001 and -0.5;P<.02).CONCLUSIONS: Early diagnosed, treated, and continuously monitored patients with PKU showed reduced height from birth onward. During the last 2 decades, this phenomenon attenuated, probably because of advances in PKU therapy related to protein supplements and special low-protein foods. labels: #Adolescent#Body Height#Body Weight#Child#Child Development#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Dietary Proteins#Female#Germany#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Phenylketonurias#Retrospective Studies'
b'PARP inhibitors (PARPi) kill BRCA1/2-mutated cancers, which become resistant when DNA repair functions are restored. Now, MUS81 nuclease inhibition due to EZH2 downregulation is found to restore DNA replication fork protection but not repair, leading to PARPi-resistance in mutant BRCA2 cells and patients. This challenges the DNA repair dominance in synthetic lethality. labels: #BRCA1 Protein#BRCA2 Protein#DNA Damage#DNA Repair#DNA Replication#Down-Regulation#Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein#Humans#Neoplasms#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases'
b'Organoids are a powerful tool to study both physiological and disease processes. A completely synthetic matrix assembled from exchangeable modular parts has been developed and not only supports proliferation of human intestinal organoids derived from pluripotent embryonic stem cells, but also augments subsequent ad vivo implantation into injured murine colon. labels: #Animals#Cell Differentiation#Embryonic Stem Cells#Humans#Intestines#Organoids#Pluripotent Stem Cells#Prostheses and Implants#Regeneration'
b'A variety of non-coding RNAs have been reported as endogenous sponges for cancer-modulating miRNAs. However, miRNA trapping by transcripts with protein-coding functions is less understood. The mRNA of TYRP1 is now found to sequester the tumour suppressor miR-16 on non-canonical miRNA response elements in melanoma, thereby promoting malignant growth. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Melanoma#Membrane Glycoproteins#MicroRNAs#Oxidoreductases#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b"With the aim to create a library of compounds with potential bioactivities by combining special characteristics of two important groups such as nucleobases and carbohydrates, twenty 1,4-disubstituted-triazole nucleosides were synthesized in good yields (80-94%) using the copper catalyzed 'Click' reaction between azido-modified pento- or hexopyranoses and alkyne-bearing pyrimidine or purine nucleobases. Structural elucidation was made with the assistance of spectroscopic techniques such as FTIR, 1D-, 2D-NMR, and ESI-TOFMS. All the synthesized triazole nucleosides were evaluated for their cytotoxic activity against three human cancer cell lines (MDA-MB-231, Hep3B, PC-3) by using the MTT assay. Particularly, compounds 3a and 1b were identified as potential hits against Hep3B cell. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Humans#Purine Nucleosides#Pyrans#Pyrimidine Nucleosides#Triazoles"
b'Vocal learning, the substrate of human language acquisition, has rarely been described in other mammals. Often, group-specific vocal dialects in wild populations provide the main evidence for vocal learning. While social learning is often the most plausible explanation for these intergroup differences, it is usually impossible to exclude other driving factors, such as genetic or ecological backgrounds. Here, we show the formation of dialects through social vocal learning in fruit bats under controlled conditions. We raised 3 groups of pups in conditions mimicking their natural roosts. Namely, pups could hear their mothers\' vocalizations but were also exposed to a manipulation playback. The vocalizations in the 3 playbacks mainly differed in their fundamental frequency. From the age of approximately 6 months and onwards, the pups demonstrated distinct dialects, where each group was biased towards its playback. We demonstrate the emergence of dialects through social learning in a mammalian model in a tightly controlled environment. Unlike in the extensively studied case of songbirds where specific tutors are imitated, we demonstrate that bats do not only learn their vocalizations directly from their mothers, but that they are actually influenced by the sounds of the entire crowd. This process, which we term "crowd vocal learning," might be relevant to many other social animals such as cetaceans and pinnipeds. labels: #Acoustics#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Auditory Perception#Chiroptera#Female#Learning#Vocalization, Animal'
b'BACKGROUND: Gonorrhoea is one of the most common bacterial sexually transmitted infections in England. Over 41,000 cases were recorded in 2015, more than half of which occurred in men who have sex with men (MSM). As the bacterium has developed resistance to each first-line antibiotic in turn, we need an improved understanding of fitness benefits and costs of antibiotic resistance to inform control policy and planning. Cefixime was recommended as a single-dose treatment for gonorrhoea from 2005 to 2010, during which time resistance increased, and subsequently declined.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed a stochastic compartmental model representing the natural history and transmission of cefixime-sensitive and cefixime-resistant strains of Neisseria gonorrhoeae in MSM in England, which was applied to data on diagnoses and prescriptions between 2008 and 2015. We estimated that asymptomatic carriers play a crucial role in overall transmission dynamics, with 37% (95% credible interval CrI 24%-52%) of infections remaining asymptomatic and untreated, accounting for 89% (95% CrI 82%-93%) of onward transmission. The fitness cost of cefixime resistance in the absence of cefixime usage was estimated to be such that the number of secondary infections caused by resistant strains is only about half as much as for the susceptible strains, which is insufficient to maintain persistence. However, we estimated that treatment of cefixime-resistant strains with cefixime was unsuccessful in 83% (95% CrI 53%-99%) of cases, representing a fitness benefit of resistance. This benefit was large enough to counterbalance the fitness cost when 31% (95% CrI 26%-36%) of cases were treated with cefixime, and when more than 55% (95% CrI 44%-66%) of cases were treated with cefixime, the resistant strain had a net fitness advantage over the susceptible strain. Limitations include sparse data leading to large intervals on key model parameters and necessary assumptions in the modelling of a complex epidemiological process.CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides, to our knowledge, the first estimates of the fitness cost and benefit associated with resistance of the gonococcus to a clinically relevant antibiotic. Our findings have important implications for antibiotic stewardship and public health policies and, in particular, suggest that a previously abandoned antibiotic could be used again to treat a minority of gonorrhoea cases without raising resistance levels. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Asymptomatic Infections#Bisexuality#Cefixime#Cephalosporin Resistance#Cost-Benefit Analysis#England#Gonorrhea#Health Policy#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Models, Biological#Neisseria gonorrhoeae'
b"BACKGROUND: Disinvestment (removal, reduction, or reallocation) of routinely provided health services can be difficult when there is little published evidence examining whether the services are effective or not. Evidence is required to understand if removing these services produces outcomes that are inferior to keeping such services in place. However, organisational imperatives, such as budget cuts, may force healthcare providers to disinvest from these services before the required evidence becomes available. There are presently no experimental studies examining the effectiveness of allied health services (e.g., physical therapy, occupational therapy, and social work) provided on weekends across acute medical and surgical hospital wards, despite these services being routinely provided internationally. The aim of this study was to understand the impact of removing weekend allied health services from acute medical and surgical wards using a disinvestment-specific non-inferiority research design.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted 2 stepped-wedge cluster randomised controlled trials between 1 February 2014 and 30 April 2015 among patients on 12 acute medical or surgical hospital wards spread across 2 hospitals. The hospitals involved were 2 metropolitan teaching hospitals in Melbourne, Australia. Data from n = 14,834 patients were collected for inclusion in Trial 1, and n = 12,674 in Trial 2. Trial 1 was a disinvestment-specific non-inferiority stepped-wedge trial where the 'current' weekend allied health service was incrementally removed from participating wards each calendar month, in a random order, while Trial 2 used a conventional non-inferiority stepped-wedge design, where a 'newly developed' service was incrementally reinstated on the same wards as in Trial 1. Primary outcome measures were patient length of stay (proportion staying longer than expected and mean length of stay), the proportion of patients experiencing any adverse event, and the proportion with an unplanned readmission within 28 days of discharge. The 'no weekend allied health service' condition was considered to be not inferior if the 95% CIs of the differences between this condition and the condition with weekend allied health service delivery were below a 2% increase in the proportion of patients who stayed in hospital longer than expected, a 2% increase in the proportion who had an unplanned readmission within 28 days, a 2% increase in the proportion who had any adverse event, and a 1-day increase in the mean length of stay. The current weekend allied health service included physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, dietetics, social work, and allied health assistant services in line with usual care at the participating sites. The newly developed weekend allied health service allowed managers at each site to reprioritise tasks being performed and the balance of hours provided by each professional group and on which days they were provided. Analyses conducted on an intention-to-treat basis demonstrated that there was no estimated effect size difference between groups in the proportion of patients staying longer than expected (weekend versus no weekend; estimated effect size difference [95% CI], p-value) in Trial 1 (0.40 versus 0.38; estimated effect size difference 0.01 [-0.01 to 0.04], p = 0.31, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin), but the proportion staying longer than expected was greater with the newly developed service compared to its no weekend service control condition (0.39 versus 0.40; estimated effect size difference 0.02 [0.01 to 0.04], p = 0.04, CI was completely below non-inferiority margin) in Trial 2. Trial 1 and 2 findings were discordant for the mean length of stay outcome (Trial 1: 5.5 versus 6.3 days; estimated effect size difference 1.3 days [0.9 to 1.8], p<0.001, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin; Trial 2: 5.9 versus 5.0 days; estimated effect size difference -1.6 days [-2.0 to -1.1], p<0.001, CI was completely below non-inferiority margin). There was no difference between conditions for the proportion who had an unplanned readmission within 28 days in either trial (Trial 1: 0.01 [-0.01 to 0.03], p = 0.18, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin; Trial 2: -0.01 [-0.02 to 0.01], p = 0.62, CI completely below non-inferiority margin). There was no difference between conditions in the proportion of patients who experienced any adverse event in Trial 1 (0.01 [-0.01 to 0.03], p = 0.33, CI was both above and below non-inferiority margin), but a lower proportion of patients had an adverse event in Trial 2 when exposed to the no weekend allied health condition (-0.03 [-0.05 to -0.004], p = 0.02, CI completely below non-inferiority margin). Limitations of this research were that 1 of the trial wards was closed by the healthcare provider after Trial 1 and could not be included in Trial 2, and that both withdrawing the current weekend allied health service model and installing a new one may have led to an accommodation period for staff to adapt to the new service settings. Stepped-wedge trials are potentially susceptible to bias from naturally occurring change over time at the service level; however, this was adjusted for in our analyses.CONCLUSIONS: In Trial 1, criteria to say that the no weekend allied health condition was non-inferior to current weekend allied health condition were not met, while neither the no weekend nor current weekend allied health condition demonstrated superiority. In Trial 2, the no weekend allied health condition was non-inferior to the newly developed weekend allied health condition across all primary outcomes, and superior for the outcomes proportion of patients staying longer than expected, proportion experiencing any adverse event, and mean length of stay.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12613001231730 and ACTRN12613001361796. labels: #After-Hours Care#Allied Health Personnel#Australia#Dietetics#Health Services#Hospital Units#Hospitalization#Humans#Length of Stay#Linear Models#Multilevel Analysis#Occupational Therapy#Patient Readmission#Physical Therapy Specialty#Social Work"
b"Stone cell content is thought to be one of the key determinants for fruit quality in pears. However, the molecular mechanism of stone cell development remains poorly understood. In this study, we found that the stone cell clusters (SCCs) distribution and area in 'Dangshan Su' (with abundant stone cells) were higher as compared to 'Lianglizaosu' (low stone cell content bud sport of 'Dangshan Su') based on the histochemical staining, and the correlations of lignin content with stone cell content and SCC area was significant. The fruits of 'Dangshan Su' and 'Lianglizaosu' at three different developmental stages (23 and 55 days after flowering and mature) were sampled for comparative transcriptome analysis to explore the metabolic pathways associated with stone cell development. A total of 42444 unigenes were obtained from two varieties, among which 7203 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by comparison of the six transcriptomes. Specifically, many DEGs associated with lignin biosynthesis were identified, including coumaroylquinate 3-monooxygenase (C3H), shikimate O-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase (HCT), ferulate 5-hydroxylase (F5H), cinnamyl alcohol dehydrogenase (CAD) and peroxidase (POD), as well as genes related to carbon metabolism, such as sorbitol dehydrogenase-like (SDH-like) and ATP-dependent 6-phosphofructokinase (ATP-PFK). At the peak of the stone cell content (55 days after flowering), the expression level of these genes in 'Dangshan Su' was significantly increased compared with 'Lianglizaosu', indicating that these genes were closely related to stone cell development. We validated the transcriptional levels of 33 DEGs using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis. The results were consistent with the transcriptome analysis, indicating the reliability of transcriptome data. In addition, subcellular localization analysis of three DEGs in lignin synthesis (PbC3H, PbF5H and PbPOD) revealed that these proteins are mainly distributed in the cell membrane and cytoplasm. These results provide new insights into the molecular mechanism of stone cell formation. labels: #Fruit#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genetic Association Studies#Lignin#Metabolic Networks and Pathways#Pyrus#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA"
b'The nuclear genome harbours hundreds to several thousand copies of ribosomal DNA. Despite their essential role in cellular ribogenesis few studies have addressed intrapopulation, interpopulation and interspecific levels of rDNA variability in wild plants. Some studies have assessed the extent of rDNA variation at the sequence and copy-number level with large sampling in several species. However, comparable studies on rDNA site number variation in plants, assessed with extensive hierarchical sampling at several levels (individuals, populations, species) are lacking. In exploring the possible causes for ribosomal loci dynamism, we have used the diploid genus Anacyclus (Asteraceae) as a suitable system to examine the evolution of ribosomal loci. To this end, the number and chromosomal position of 45S rDNA sites have been determined in 196 individuals from 47 populations in all Anacyclus species using FISH. The 45S rDNA site-number has been assessed in a significant sample of seed plants, which usually exhibit rather consistent features, except for polyploid plants. In contrast, the level of rDNA site-number variation detected in Anacyclus is outstanding in the context of angiosperms particularly regarding populations of the same species. The number of 45S rDNA sites ranged from four to 11, accounting for 14 karyological ribosomal phenotypes. Our results are not even across species and geographical areas, and show that there is no clear association between the number of 45S rDNA loci and the life cycle in Anacyclus. A single rDNA phenotype was detected in several species, but a more complex pattern that included intra-specific and intra-population polymorphisms was recorded in A. homogamos, A. clavatus and A. valentinus, three weedy species showing large and overlapping distribution ranges. It is likely that part of the cytogenetic changes and inferred dynamism found in these species have been triggered by genomic rearrangements resulting from contemporary hybridisation. labels: #Asteraceae#Chromosomes, Plant#DNA, Ribosomal#Diploidy#Genetic Variation#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Karyotyping#RNA, Ribosomal'
b'Purpose: Centripetal retinal degeneration in choroideremia (CHM) leads to early visual field restriction and late central vision loss. The latter marks an acute decline in quality of life but visual prognostication remains challenging. We investigated visual function in CHM by correlating best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA), microperimetry and multimodal imaging.Methods: Fifty-six consecutive CHM patients attending Oxford Eye Hospital were examined with BCVA, 10-2 microperimetry, optical coherence tomography, and fundus autofluorescence (AF). Microperimetry was repeated in 21 eyes and analyzed with Bland-Altman. Kaplan-Meier survival plots of eyes retaining 20/20 BCVA were created. Intereye symmetry was assessed.Results: Microperimetry coefficient of repeatability was 1.45 dB. Survival analysis showed an indistinguishable pattern between eyes (median survival 39 years). Macular sensitivity showed a similar decline in right and left eyes, with half-lives of 13.6 years. Zonal analysis showed faster decline nasal to the fovea. Intereye symmetry was more consistent for microperimetry sensitivity (r = 0.95, P<0.001) than BCVA (r = 0.42, P = 0.0006). Near normal foveal sensitivity was maintained when the fovea was at least 2500 \xce\xbcm from the advancing edge of AF.Conclusions: BCVA is a marker of central degeneration and can provide valuable information about the position of the remaining retina as well as a measure of the impact on daily living. Microperimetry represents the global macular region. Both visual functions showed a high degree of intereye symmetry, particularly in early stages, indicating the fellow eye can provide a suitable control for assessing interventions to one eye. The findings may help to tailor visual prognosis and interpret outcomes of trials. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Choroideremia#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Fundus Oculi#Genetic Therapy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multimodal Imaging#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Visual Field Tests#Visual Fields#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To investigate the anti-inflammatory properties of ripasudil, a Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitor, using endotoxin-induced uveitis (EIU) in rats.Methods: Endotoxin-induced uveitis was induced by footpad injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Ripasudil was administered intraperitoneally 1 hour before and after LPS injection. The aqueous humor was collected 24 hours after injection, and the infiltrating cells, protein concentration, and levels of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were determined. Infiltrating cells in the iris ciliary body (ICB) and adherent leukocytes in retinal vessels were evaluated. The mRNA levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1, and MCP-1 in the retina and ICB were determined. A mouse macrophage cell line, RAW264.7, was stimulated with LPS in the presence or absence of ripasudil, and the expression of MCP-1 and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor (NF)-\xce\xbaB was analyzed.Results: Ripasudil significantly reduced infiltrating cells and protein exudation in the aqueous humor, as well as the number of infiltrating cells in the ICB and adherent leukocytes in retinal vessels in EIU. Additionally, the protein level of MCP-1 in the aqueous humor and mRNA levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1, MCP-1, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the ICB and retina were suppressed by ripasudil. The production of MCP-1 and nuclear translocation of NF-\xce\xbaB in RAW264.7 cells were also suppressed by ripasudil.Conclusions: The Rho/ROCK pathway plays a role in adhesion molecule expression and inflammatory cell infiltration in EIU, and ripasudil is a potent anti-inflammatory agent against ocular inflammatory diseases, including acute uveitis and possibly uveitic glaucoma. labels: #Animals#Aqueous Humor#Cells, Cultured#Cytokines#Disease Models, Animal#Endotoxins#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Isoquinolines#Male#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Retina#Sulfonamides#Uveitis#rho-Associated Kinases'
b'Purpose: To assess vitreous levels of inflammatory cytokines and neurotrophins (NTs) in diabetic retinopathy (DR) and elucidate their potential roles.Methods: A prospective study was performed on 50 vitreous samples obtained from patients with DR (n = 22) and the nondiabetic controls (n = 28). All patients were candidates for vitrectomy. Inflammatory cytokine and NT levels were determined with ELISA. Potential source and role of NTs was determined by using human retinal M\xc3\xbcller glia and mouse photoreceptor cells and challenging them with TNF-\xce\xb1 or IL-1\xce\xb2, followed by detection of NTs and cell death.Results: Vitreous NT levels of all DR patients were significantly higher than those of nondiabetic controls (nerve growth factor [NGF, P = 0.0001], brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF, P = 0.009], neurotrophin-3 [NT-3, P<0.0001], neurotrophin-4 [NT-4, P = 0.0001], ciliary neurotrophic factor [CNTF, P = 0.0001], and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor [GDNF, P = 0.008]). Similarly, the levels of inflammatory mediators IL-1\xce\xb2 (P<0.0001), IL-6 (P = 0.0005), IL-8 (P<0.0001), and TNF-\xce\xb1 (P<0.0001) were also higher in eyes with DR. Interestingly, inflammatory cytokine and NT levels, particularly TNF-\xce\xb1 (P<0.05), IL-8 (P<0.004), NT-3 (P = 0.012), NGF (P = 0.04), GDNF (P = 0.005), and CNTF (P = 0.002), were higher in eyes with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) than in eyes with active proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Cytokine stimulation of M\xc3\xbcller glia resulted in production of NTs, and GDNF treatment reduced photoreceptor cell death in response to inflammation and oxidative stress.Conclusions: Together, our study demonstrated that patients with DR have higher levels of both inflammatory cytokines and NTs in their vitreous. M\xc3\xbcller glia could be the potential source of NTs under inflammatory conditions to exert neuroprotection. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers#Cells, Cultured#Cytokines#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Growth Factors#Prospective Studies#Vitreous Body'
b'BACKGROUND: The objective of our investigation is to study the relationship between the rs4939827 SNP in the SMAD7 gene, Mediterranean diet pattern and the risk of colorectal cancer.METHODS: We examined 1087 cases of colorectal cancer and 2409 population controls with available DNA samples from the MCC-Spain study, 2008-2012. Descriptive statistical analyses, and multivariate logistic mixed models were performed. The potential synergistic effect of rs4939827 and the Mediterranean diet pattern was evaluated with logistic regression in different strata of of adherence to the Mediterranean diet and the genotype.RESULTS: High adherence to Mediterrenean diet was statistically significantly associated with colorectal cancer risk. A decreased risk for CRC cancer was observed for the CC compared to the TT genotype (OR\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.65 and 95% CI\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.51-0.81) of the rs4939827 SNP Also, we could show an association between the Mediterranean diet pattern (protective factor) and rs4939827. Although the decreased risk for the CC genotype was slightly more pronounced in subjects with high adherence to Mediterrenean diet, there was no statistically significant synergistic effect between genotype CC and adherence to the Mediterranean dietary pattern factors.CONCLUSION: The SMAD7 gene and specifically the allele C could be protective for colorectal cancer. An independent protective association was also observed between high adherence Mediterranean diet pattern and CRC risk. Findings form this study indicate that high adherence to Mediterranean diet pattern has a protective role for CRC cancer probably involving the Tumor Growth Factor- \xce\xb2 pathway in this cancer. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinogenesis#Case-Control Studies#Colorectal Neoplasms#Diet, Mediterranean#Female#Gene-Environment Interaction#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Smad7 Protein#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The influence of e-cigarette use on smoking initiation is a highly controversial issue, with limited longitudinal data available for examining temporal associations. We examined e-cigarette use and its association with cigarette-smoking initiation at 1-year follow-up within a large cohort of Canadian secondary school students.METHODS: We analyzed data from students in grades 9-12 who participated in 2 waves of COMPASS, a cohort study of purposefully sampled secondary schools in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, at baseline (2013/14) and 1-year follow-up (2014/15). We assessed cigarette smoking and e-cigarette use at baseline and follow-up using self-completed surveys. We used generalized linear mixed-effects models to examine correlates of past 30-day e-cigarette use at baseline and smoking initiation between waves within the longitudinal sample.RESULTS: Past 30-day e-cigarette use increased from 2013/14 to 2014/15 (7.2% v. 9.7%,p<0.001), whereas past 30-day cigarette smoking decreased slightly (11.4% v. 10.8%,p= 0.02). Among the 44 163 students evaluated at baseline, past 30-day e-cigarette use was strongly associated with smoking status and smoking susceptibility. In the longitudinal sample (n= 19 130), past 30-day use of e-cigarettes at baseline was associated with initiation of smoking a whole cigarette (adjusted odds ratio [OR] 2.12, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.68-2.66) and with initiation of daily smoking (adjusted OR 1.79, 95% CI 1.41-2.28) at follow-up.INTERPRETATION: E-cigarette use was strongly associated with cigarette smoking behaviour, including smoking initiation at follow-up. The causal nature of this association remains unclear, because common factors underlying the use of both e-cigarettes and conventional cigarettes may also account for the temporal order of initiation. labels: #Adolescent#Adolescent Behavior#Alberta#Behavior, Addictive#Cohort Studies#Electronic Nicotine Delivery Systems#Female#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Ontario#Peer Group#Risk Factors#Self Report#Smoking#Tobacco Use Disorder'
b'BACKGROUND: Although previous studies have demonstrated that patients receiving bilateral internal mammary artery (BIMA) conduits during coronary artery bypass grafting have better long-term survival than those receiving a single internal mammary artery (SIMA), data on risk of repeat revascularization are more limited. In this analysis, we compare the timing, frequency, and type of repeat coronary revascularization among patients receiving BIMA and SIMA.METHODS: We conducted a multicenter, retrospective analysis of 47 984 consecutive coronary artery bypass grafting surgeries performed from 1992 to 2014 among 7 medical centers reporting to a prospectively maintained clinical registry. Among the study population, 1482 coronary artery bypass grafting surgeries with BIMA were identified, and 1297 patients receiving BIMA were propensity-matched to 1297 patients receiving SIMA. The primary end point was freedom from repeat coronary revascularization.RESULTS: The median duration of follow-up was 13.2 (IQR, 7.4-17.7) years. Patients were well matched by age, body mass index, major comorbidities, and cardiac function. There was a higher freedom from repeat revascularization among patients receiving BIMA than among patients receiving SIMA (hazard ratio [HR], 0.78 [95% CI, 0.65-0.94];P=0.009). Among the matched cohort, 19.4% (n=252) of patients receiving SIMA underwent repeat revascularization, whereas this frequency was 15.1% (n=196) among patients receiving BIMA (P=0.004). The majority of repeat revascularization procedures were percutaneous coronary interventions (94.2%), and this did not differ between groups (P=0.274). Groups also did not differ in the ratio of native versus graft vessel percutaneous coronary intervention (P=0.899), or regarding percutaneous coronary intervention target vessels; the most common targets in both groups were the right coronary (P=0.133) and circumflex arteries (P=0.093). In comparison with SIMA, BIMA grafting was associated with a reduction in all-cause mortality at 12 years of follow-up (HR, 0.79 [95% CI, 0.69-0.91];P=0.001), and there was no difference in in-hospital morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: BIMA grafting was associated with a reduced risk of repeat revascularization and an improvement in long-term survival and should be considered more frequently during coronary artery bypass grafting. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Coronary Artery Bypass#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mammary Arteries#Middle Aged#Registries#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate'
b'BACKGROUND: Pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) in patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot provides symptomatic benefit and right ventricular (RV) volume reduction. However, data on the rate of ventricular structural and functional adaptation are scarce. We aimed to assess immediate and midterm post-PVR changes and predictors of reverse remoeling.METHODS: Fifty-seven patients with repaired tetralogy of Fallot (age \xe2\x89\xa516 y; mean age, 35.8\xc2\xb110.1 y; 38 male) undergoing PVR were prospectively recruited for cardiovascular magnetic resonance performed before PVR (pPVR), immediately after PVR (median, 6 d), and midterm after PVR (mPVR; median, 3 y).RESULTS: There were immediate and midterm reductions in indexed RV end-diastolic volumes and RV end-systolic volumes (RVESVi) (indexed RV end-diastolic volume pPVR versus immediately after PVR versus mPVR, 156.1\xc2\xb141.9 versus 104.9\xc2\xb128.4 versus 104.2\xc2\xb134.4 mL/m2; RVESVi pPVR versus immediately after PVR versus mPVR, 74.9\xc2\xb126.2 versus 57.4\xc2\xb122.7 versus 50.5\xc2\xb121.7 mL/m2;P<0.01). Normal postoperative diastolic and systolic RV volumes (the primary end point) achieved in 70% of patients were predicted by a preoperative indexed RV end-diastolic volume \xe2\x89\xa4158 mL/m2and RVESVi \xe2\x89\xa482 mL/m2. RVESVi showed a progressive decrease from baseline to immediate to midterm follow-up, indicating ongoing intrinsic RV functional improvement after PVR. Left ventricular ejection fraction improved (pPVR versus mPVR, 59.4\xc2\xb17.6% versus 61.9\xc2\xb16.8%;P<0.01), and right atrial reverse remodeling occurred (pPVR versus mPVR, 15.2\xc2\xb13.4 versus 13.8\xc2\xb13.6 cm2/m2;P<0.01). Larger preoperative RV outflow tract scar was associated with a smaller improvement in post-PVR RV/left ventricular ejection fraction. RV ejection fraction and peak oxygen uptake predicted mortality (P=0.03) over a median of 9.5 years of follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Significant right heart structural reverse remodeling takes place immediately after PVR, followed by a continuing process of further biological remodeling manifested by further reduction in RVESVi. PVR before RVESVi reaches 82 mL/m2confers optimal chances of normalization of RV function. labels: #Adult#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Valve Prosthesis#Heart Valve Prosthesis Implantation#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Pulmonary Valve#Stroke Volume#Tetralogy of Fallot#Ventricular Remodeling'
b'OBJECTIVES: To estimate the association between maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy and of paternal use before pregnancy with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in offspring while adjusting for familial risk for ADHD and indications of acetaminophen use.METHODS: Diagnoses were obtained from the Norwegian Patient Registry for 112\xe2\x80\x89973 offspring from the Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study, including 2246 with ADHD. We estimated hazard ratios (HRs) for an ADHD diagnosis by using Cox proportional hazard models.RESULTS: After adjusting for maternal use of acetaminophen before pregnancy, familial risk for ADHD, and indications of acetaminophen use, we observed a modest association between any prenatal maternal use of acetaminophen in 1 (HR = 1.07; 95% confidence interval [CI]0.96-1.19), 2 (HR = 1.22; 95% CI 1.07-1.38), and 3 trimesters (HR = 1.27; 95% CI 0.99-1.63). The HR for more than 29 days of maternal acetaminophen use was 2.20 (95% CI 1.50-3.24). Use for<8 days was negatively associated with ADHD (HR = 0.90; 95% CI 0.81-1.00). Acetaminophen use for fever and infections for 22 to 28 days was associated with ADHD (HR = 6.15; 95% CI 1.71-22.05). Paternal and maternal use of acetaminophen were similarly associated with ADHD.CONCLUSIONS: Short-term maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was negatively associated with ADHD in offspring. Long-term maternal use of acetaminophen during pregnancy was substantially associated with ADHD even after adjusting for indications of use, familial risk of ADHD, and other potential confounders. labels: #Acetaminophen#Adolescent#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Norway#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Prospective Studies#Registries#Risk Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite data suggesting safety and efficacy in ulcerative colitis patients treated with inpatient infliximab, prior studies did not focus on patients with extensive colitis, the group at highest risk for requiring surgery.METHODS: This was a single center, retrospective study (2008-2015) of consecutive patients who required admission because of severe extensive ulcerative colitis defined by preoperative symptoms and computed tomography scans and postoperative histology. Patients admitted for high-dose steroids were compared with steroid refractory inpatients provided with one or two infusions of infliximab. The primary study outcome was colectomy rates; secondary outcomes included mean length of stay and 60-d complication rates.RESULTS: A total of 174 patients required admission with steroids for extensive ulcerative colitis. Of these, 19 (10%) also received infliximab. Among the subjects treated with infliximab, 15 (78%) required total colectomy during that admission versus 81 (52%) who received steroids alone (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03). Postoperative readmission rates, surgical-site infections, return to the operating room, and all-complication rates were similar between the cohorts (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: For steroid refractory extensive ulcerative colitis, inpatient infliximab did not lower colectomy rates or increase postoperative complications compared with patients treated with steroids alone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Colectomy#Colitis, Ulcerative#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Gastrointestinal Agents#Hospitalization#Humans#Infliximab#Infusions, Intravenous#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Steroids#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The liver has unique anatomy in that most blood flow to normal hepatocytes is derived from the portal venous system, whereas liver tumors obtain their nutrient blood supply exclusively from the hepatic artery. The focused arterial delivery of anticancer agents to liver tumors has been performed for decades; however, preclinical models to standardize drug regimens and examine novel agents have been lacking. The purpose of this study was to establish preclinical hepatic artery infusion (HAI) models in a mouse and to evaluate the safety and delivery capability of the models.MATERIAL AND METHODS: C57BL/6 and BALB/c mice were used to develop models of HAI via the hepatic artery (HA), superior pancreaticoduodenal artery (SPDA), or lienogastric artery (LGA). Success rates, distribution of perfusion, and associated morbidity and mortality were analyzed between groups.RESULTS: All three models were feasible and reproducible in mice, and there was no statistical difference on body weight change between models. The HA model had a 13.3% mortality from acute liver failure, and the SPDA model demonstrated duodenal and pancreatic toxicity. SPDA and LGA routes had the highest success rates (96.7% and 91.4%, respectively) with low mortality, better drug delivery, and preserved physiologic liver function compared with the HA model.CONCLUSIONS: The optimal route of HAI was mouse breed specific; SPDA access in BALB/c mice, and the LGA access in C57BL/6 mice. The described techniques serve as a reproducible platform for the identification and characterization of therapeutics for diverse metastatic liver tumors. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Colonic Neoplasms#Female#Fluorouracil#Hepatic Artery#Infusions, Intra-Arterial#Liver Neoplasms#Liver Neoplasms, Experimental#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Reproducibility of Results#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Hispanic ethnicity is associated with increased incidence of gallbladder disease. Additionally, ethnicity has been shown to be an outcome determinant in several conditions and procedures but has never been studied as a potential determinant of morbidity or mortality after laparoscopic or open cholecystectomy.METHODS: Using the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database, patients who underwent cholecystectomy and related procedures were studied in Hispanic and non-Hispanic cohorts. Mortality and postoperative complication rates were calculated and adjusted for patient demographics and comorbidities through multivariate analysis.RESULTS: Hispanics had decreased morbidity following cholecystectomy as compared to non-Hispanics on univariate analysis in combined, laparoscopic, and open cohorts (RR 0.64, P value<0.001; 0.68,<0.001; 0.77,<0.001, respectively). The reduction was not found to be statistically significant in multivariate analysis. A similar reduction was seen for mortality (RR 0.30,<0.001; 0.39,<0.001; 0.28,<0.001, respectively) which remained on multivariate analysis in both combined and open cohorts (RR 0.63, 0.008 and 0.48, 0.021, respectively). Additionally, the rates of several postoperative complications were found to be reduced in Hispanic patients. Though our study demonstrates a lower rate of established comorbidities for poor outcomes in Hispanics, after adjustment in multivariate analysis, the entirety of the reduced risk could not be accounted for.CONCLUSIONS: While the Hispanic cohort has an increased incidence in gallbladder disease as compared to non-Hispanics, the complication, morbidity, and mortality rates are lower in unadjusted analysis. With adjustment, morbidity was not statistically significant and mortality was only significant in combined and open cohorts. This suggests that increased incidence rates do not equate with worse outcomes, but Hispanic ethnicity may be associated with better outcomes. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cholecystectomy#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Databases, Factual#Female#Health Status Disparities#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#United States#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Childhood sarcomas are rare and require complex interdisciplinary care including surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation. The goal of this study was to determine if racial or ethnic disparities exist for pediatric sarcoma patients in the United States.METHODS: The United States' National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database was used to identify patients aged 0-21 diagnosed with primary sarcomas from 1973 to 2012. Patients were considered by race and ethnicity. Survival curves were computed using the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test.RESULTS: A total of 11,502 patients were included in this study. When stratified by race, non-Hispanic black and Hispanic patients were significantly more likely to present with advanced stage disease than white patients. White patients were more likely to receive radiation therapy than black and Hispanic patients (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.01). There was no significant difference between patients who underwent surgery (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.21). Overall survival was better for white patients than black or Hispanic ones. Despite the overall 5-year survival improvement during the study period (56.2%-70.3%), survival disparities between race and ethnicity have grown.CONCLUSIONS: Racial and ethnic disparities do exist with respect to stage, treatment, and survival of these rare tumors. Black and Hispanic patients are presenting at more advanced stage and have overall worse survival. This survival disparity has widened over the past 4\xc2\xa0decades. labels: #Adolescent#Bone Neoplasms#Child#Child, Preschool#Combined Modality Therapy#Ethnic Groups#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Health Status Disparities#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Retrospective Studies#SEER Program#Sarcoma#Soft Tissue Neoplasms#Survival Rate#United States#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: Given concern for hernia mesh infection, surgeons often use biologic mesh which may provide reduced risk of infection but at the cost of decreased repair durability. We evaluated mesh coating to provide sustained release of antibiotics to prevent prosthetic mesh infection and also allow a durable repair.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cyclodextrin-based polymer was crosslinked onto multifilament polyester mesh and loaded with vancomycin (1.75\xc2\xa0mg/cm2). Pigs received modified meshes (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa06) or normal, untreated meshes (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa04), which were implanted into acute 10\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97\xc2\xa05 cm ventral hernia, then directly inoculated with 106\xc2\xa0colony-forming unit (CFU) of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). These were compared to animals receiving normal, uninfected mesh. All mesh was secured in an underlay bridge manner, and after 30\xc2\xa0d, the abdominal wall was removed for quantitative bacterial culture and biomechanical analysis.RESULTS: All animals survived 30\xc2\xa0d. All six animals with coated mesh cleared MRSA infection. The four control animals did not clear MRSA (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.005). Quantitative bacterial load was higher in standard mesh versus drug-delivery mesh group (2.34 \xc3\x97 104versus 80.9\xc2\xa0CFU/gm). These data were log10-transformed and analyzed by Welch's t-test (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). Minimum number of CFUs detectable by assay (300) was used instead of zero. Biomechanical analysis of controls (1.82\xc2\xa0N/mm infected; 1.71\xc2\xa0N/mm uninfected) showed no difference to the modified meshes (1.31\xc2\xa0N/mm) in tissue integration (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.15).CONCLUSIONS: We successfully prevented synthetic mesh infection in a pig model using a cyclodextrin-based polymer to locally deliver vancomycin to the hernia repair site and clearing antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Polymer coating did not impact the strength of the hernia repair. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Cellulose#Cyclodextrins#Female#Hernia, Ventral#Herniorrhaphy#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Polyesters#Prosthesis-Related Infections#Random Allocation#Staphylococcal Infections#Surgical Mesh#Swine#Treatment Outcome#Vancomycin"
b'BACKGROUND: Previous data indicate that patients who undergo surgery with a postgraduate year 3 (PGY-3) resident as the junior surgeon have a lower rate of recurrence compared with PGY-1 and PGY-2 after an open inguinal herniorrhaphy. Lower PGY level was also associated with increased operative time. We hypothesize that when controlling for surgeon, technique, and hernia type, the outcomes for inguinal herniorrhaphy are the same independent of PGY level.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of all open unilateral inguinal hernia repairs done by residents who assisted the same senior surgeon at the Veterans Affairs North Texas Health Care System was performed.RESULTS: Seven hundred fifty-two open unilateral inguinal hernia were identified: mean patient age\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa060.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa012.7\xc2\xa0y; mean body mass index\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa027.0\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa010.8\xc2\xa0kg/m2; American Society of Anesthesia III-IV\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa051%; and Nyhus type 2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa044.7%, 3a\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa041.6%, and 3b\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa013.7%. Residents involved were PGY-1 (17.2%), PGY-2/3 (71.1%), and PGY-4/5 (11.7%). Postoperative complications for intern, junior (PGY-2 and PGY-3), and senior residents (PGY-4 and PGY-5) were 4%, 9%, and 6%, respectively (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.14). Compared to interns, junior residents finished the operation 3.9\xc2\xa0min faster (95% confidence interval = -7.5, -0.3). There was no time difference between interns and senior residents completing the operations after controlling for hernia type. Logistic regression did not identify PGY level as an independent predictor of complications or recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: There was a slight decrease in operative time when the repair was done with junior-level residents. PGY level did not influence outcomes for open, unilateral inguinal herniorrhaphy when controlled for hernia type and technique. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Competence#Female#Follow-Up Studies#General Surgery#Hernia, Inguinal#Herniorrhaphy#Humans#Internship and Residency#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Texas#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Secondary lymphedema commonly arises as a complication of cancer surgery\xc2\xa0and radiation treatment; however, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1) forms a complex with calcitonin receptor-like receptor to generate the receptor for calcitonin gene-related peptide. The present study examined whether RAMP1 plays a role in increased lymphangiogenesis during secondary lymphedema.METHODS: A model of lymphedema was generated by surgical removal of pre-existing lymphatic vessels from the subcutaneous tissue on the tails of RAMP1-deficient (RAMP1-/-) mice and their wild-type (WT) counterparts. The maximum diameter of the tail, lymphangiogenesis, and macrophage recruitment were then examined.RESULTS: Compared with that in WT mice, lymphedema in the tails in RAMP1-/- mice was sustained, with suppressed lymphangiogenesis and reduced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 at the distal edge of the lesions. The newly formed lymphatic vessels in RAMP1-/- mice were dilated, with impaired lymphatic flow. RAMP1 was expressed by macrophages recruited into edematous tail tissues distal to the wound. The number of macrophages in RAMP1-/- mice was higher than that in WT mice. Expression of messenger RNA encoding M1 macrophage-related genes, including tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 and interleukin-1, was higher in RAMP1-/- mice than in WT mice, whereas expression of messenger RNA encoding M2 macrophage genes, including interleukin-10, was lower.CONCLUSIONS: RAMP1 signaling improves lymphedema and accelerates lymphangiogenesis associated with reduced recruitment of pro-inflammatory macrophages. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Lymphangiogenesis#Lymphedema#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Postoperative Complications#Receptor Activity-Modifying Protein 1#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Direct transport of patients with severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI) to trauma centers (TCs) that can provide definitive care results in lower mortality rates. This study investigated the impact of direct versus nondirect transfers on the mortality rates of patients with sTBI.METHODS: Data on patients with TBI admitted between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2013, to our Level I TC were obtained from the trauma registry. Data included patient age, sex, mechanism, and type of injury, comorbidities, Glasgow Coma Scale, Injury Severity scores, prehospital time, time to request and to transfer, time to initiation of multimodality monitoring and goal-directed therapy protocol, dwell time in the emergency department (EDT), and mortality. Data, reported in means\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa0standard deviation, were analyzed with the Student t-test and chi-square. Statistical significance was accepted at a P value\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05.RESULTS: sTBI direct transfer to TC versus transfer from non-TCs (NTC): Of the 1187 patients with TBI admitted to our TC, 768 (64.7%) were admitted directly from the scene, whereas 419 (35.3%) were admitted after secondary transfer. One hundred seventy-one (22.2%) of the direct transfers had Glasgow Coma Scale\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa08 (sTBI) and 92 (21.9%) of the secondary transfers had sTBI. The transfer time: Time from scene to arrival to the EDT was significantly shorter for TC versus NTCs 43\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa014 versus 77\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa026\xc2\xa0min, respectively (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). EDT dwell time before transfer and time from injury to arrival to TC were 4.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa02.1 and 6.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08.3\xc2\xa0h, respectively. Mortality: There was a statistically significant lower mortality for patients with sTBI transferred directly from the scene to TCs as opposed to patients secondarily transferred, 33/171 (19.3%) versus 33/92 (35.8%), respectively (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: To decrease TBI-related mortality, patients with suspected sTBI should be taken directly to a Level I or II TC unless they require life-saving stabilization at NTCs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Humans#Injury Severity Score#Male#Middle Aged#New York#Patient Transfer#Registries#Trauma Centers'
b'BACKGROUND: There is a high morbidity rate after digestive surgery in patients with nutritional disorders such as high body mass index and depletion of skeletal muscle.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The ratio of psoas muscle area to trunk area was defined as the Psoas and All trunk Ratio (PandA Ratio) and used as an index of the balance between muscle and adipose tissue. This ratio was determined in 77 patients undergoing laparoscopy-assisted gastrectomy (LAG) for gastric cancer. Patients were classified into groups with and without postoperative complications. Clinicopathological factors were compared between the groups, and relationships of PandA Ratio with other nutritional indices were examined. PandA Ratios were also analyzed in males and females in each Clavien-Dindo grade.RESULTS: Complications developed in 22 patients (28.6%) after LAG. The PandA Ratio was significantly lower in patients with complications in univariate (2.76\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.22% versus 3.66\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.14%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0009) and multivariate (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.0064) analyses. A low PandA Ratio was also associated with more severe complications in males.CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of the areas of the psoas muscle and trunk on CT is useful for evaluation of the balance between skeletal and adipose tissue. The PandA Ratio derived from these measurements is a predictor of the clinical course after LAG in males. labels: #Adiposity#Adult#Aged#Body Composition#Female#Gastrectomy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Nutritional Status#Postoperative Complications#Psoas Muscles#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Thorax#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, possesses potent anti-inflammation effects. We previously confirmed the effects of naloxone on inhibiting upregulation of inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1\xce\xb2 (IL-1\xce\xb2). Production of mature form IL-1\xce\xb2 is mediated by the nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, a multiprotein complex composed of NLRP3, and the adaptor protein apoptosis-associated speck-like protein contains a caspase recruitment domain (ASC). We elucidated whether naloxone could inhibit the activation of NLRP3 inflammasome.MATERIAL AND METHODS: To induce IL-1\xce\xb2 production and NLRP3 inflammasome activation, the human monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1\xc2\xa0cells were first primed with lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/mL) and then activated with adenosine triphosphate (ATP, 1 mM). For NLRP3 transcription, THP-1\xc2\xa0cells were only treated with LPS priming.RESULTS: Enzyme-link immunosorbent assay data revealed that the concentration of IL-1\xce\xb2 in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP was significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP plus naloxone (0.1\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcM) (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Real-time quantitative reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction data also revealed that NLRP3 mRNA concentration in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS was significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus naloxone (P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). ASC speck formation, that is, ASC assembles into a large protein complex, is an indicator for NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Our data revealed that the percentage of cells containing ASC specks in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP was also significantly higher than that in THP-1\xc2\xa0cells treated with LPS plus ATP plus naloxone (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001).CONCLUSIONS: Naloxone inhibits NLRP3 inflammasome activation. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Biomarkers#Cell Line#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Escherichia coli#Humans#Inflammasomes#Interleukin-1beta#Lipopolysaccharides#NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein#Naloxone#Peptide Fragments#Random Allocation#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Up-Regulation'
b'BACKGROUND: Prior interventions to address declining interest in surgical careers have focused on creating early exposure and fostering mentorship at the preclinical medical student level. Navigating the surgical environment can be challenging, however, and preclinical students may be more likely to pursue a surgical career if they are given the tools to function optimally.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We designed a 10-wk technical and nontechnical skills curriculum to provide preclinical students with knowledge and skills necessary to successfully navigate the surgical learning environment, followed by placement in high-fidelity surgical simulations and scrubbing in on operative cases with attending surgeons. We administered pre-post surveys to assess student confidence levels in operative skills, self-perceptions of having a mentor, overall course efficacy, and interest in a career in surgery.RESULTS: The overall response rates presurvey and postsurvey were 100% (30 of 30) and 93.3% (28 of 30), respectively. Confidence levels across all operative skills increased significantly after completing the course. Faculty mentorship increased significantly from 30.0% before to 61.5% after the course. Overall effectiveness of the course was 4.00 of 5 (4\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0"very effective"), and although insignificant, overall interest in a career in surgery increased at the completion of the course from 3.77 (standard deviation\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.01) to 4.17 (standard deviation\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.94).CONCLUSIONS: Our curriculum was effective in teaching the skills necessary to enjoy positive experiences in planned early exposure and mentorship activities. Further study is warranted to determine if this intervention leads to an increase in students who formally commit to a career in surgery. labels: #California#Career Choice#Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#General Surgery#Humans#Male#Mentoring#Program Evaluation#Simulation Training'
b"BACKGROUND: Surgery is very cognitively demanding, particularly for novices. Novices are required to direct full attention on the procedure at hand, and additional demands can lead to cognitive overload. Through extensive practice, experts develop spare attentional capacity (SAC) for simultaneous tasks. However, little effort has been made to enhance novices' SAC. Mental skills may enhance attention management and increase SAC. The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of a novel mental skills curriculum (MSC) to enhance novices' attention management.METHODS: Sixty novice volunteers were randomly stratified to a control or MSC group based on baseline laparoscopic skill and mental skill use (assessed with the Test of Performance Strategies version 2 [TOPS-2]). All participants received laparoscopic training, whereas the MSC group received additional mental skills training. At all sessions, participants completed a secondary task during laparoscopy, which assessed SAC. Participants also completed the D2 Test of Attention and the TOPS-2 attention control subscale, which are valid attention measures.RESULTS: Fifty-five novices completed the study. Both groups displayed significantly improved laparoscopic suturing ability (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and D2 performance (control: P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.005, MSC: P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01), but there were no between-group differences in D2 or TOPS attention control scores. However, only the MSC group displayed significantly improved hit rate on the secondary task (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05).CONCLUSIONS: The novel MSC implemented in this study enhanced surgical novices' SAC compared to controls, and it is clear that this curriculum may be effective at enhancing learners' ability to attend multiple task-relevant stimuli concurrently. Additional study of the impact of this MSC on learners' attentional capacity is currently underway. labels: #Adult#Attention#Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Simulation Training#Surgeons#United States"
b"This 2017 Presidential Address for the Association for Academic Surgery was delivered on February 8, 2017. It addresses the difficult topic of gender disparities in surgery. Mixing empirical data with personal anecdotes, Dr. Caprice Greenberg provides an insightful overview of this difficult challenge facing the surgical discipline and practical advice on how we can begin to address it. labels: #Career Mobility#Faculty, Medical#Female#Gender Identity#Humans#Leadership#Male#Physician's Role#Physicians, Women#Salaries and Fringe Benefits#Sexism#Societies, Medical#Specialties, Surgical#Surgeons#United States#Women's Rights"
b"BACKGROUND: Nissen fundoplication is considered an advanced minimally invasive procedure whether performed laparoscopically or robotically. In laparoscopic surgery, it is evident that assistant skill level impacts operative times. However, the robotic platform allows improved surgeon autonomy. We aimed to determine the impact of assistant training level on operative times in robotic Nissen fundoplication (RNF) and laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF).METHODS: A prospectively maintained Nissen database (2011-2016) from a single academic institution was utilized to collect patient characteristics, operative times, length of stay, intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, readmission rate, and assistant training level. Assistants were either postgraduate year-3 surgery residents defined as junior-level assistants or a minimally invasive surgery (MIS) fellow defined as senior-level assistants.RESULTS: There were 105 patients included in our analyses. When comparing postgraduate year-3 residents to MIS fellows performing LNF, the median operative time was significantly decreased when senior-level assistants were present in the LNF group, 85 (75-103) versus 129 (74-269) min, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.02. In comparison, median operative times in the RNF group were independent of the assistant's level of training, 154 (71-300) versus 158 (101-215) min, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.34. There were no significant differences in outcomes between the junior- and senior-level assistant cohorts for estimated blood loss, length of stay, postoperative complications, and 30-d readmission rates in either the LNF or RNF group.CONCLUSIONS: Assistant training level impacted operative time for LNF but not RNF. These differences are most likely attributed to increased autonomy of the operating surgeon afforded by the robotic platform reducing assistant variability. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Competence#Education, Medical, Graduate#Fellowships and Scholarships#Female#Fundoplication#Humans#Internship and Residency#Laparoscopy#Male#Middle Aged#New York City#Operative Time#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Retrospective Studies#Robotic Surgical Procedures"
b"OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of miscarriage in women with endometriosis (WwE) compared with disease-free control women (CW).DESIGN: Cross-sectional analysis nested in a retrospective observational study (n = 940).SETTING: Hospitals and associated private practices.PATIENT(S): Previously pregnant women (n = 268) within reproductive age in matched pairs.INTERVENTION(S): Retrospective analysis of surgical reports and self-administered questionnaires.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Rate of miscarriage, subanalysis for fertility status (\xe2\x89\xa412 vs.>12\xc2\xa0months' time to conception), endometriosis stages (revised American Society of Reproductive Medicine classification [rASRM] I/II vs. III/IV) and phenotypic localizations (superficial peritoneal, ovarian, and deep infiltrating endometriosis).RESULT(S): The miscarriage rate was higher in WwE (35.8% [95% confidence interval 29.6%-42.0%]) compared with CW (22.0% [16.7%-27.0%]); adjusted incidence risk ratio of 1.97 (95% CI 1.41-2.75). This remained significant in subfertile WwE (50.0% [40.7%-59.4%]) vs. CW (25.8% [8.5%-41.2%]) but not in fertile WwE (24.5% [16.3%-31.6%]) vs. CW (21.5% [15.9%-26.8%]). The miscarriage rate was higher in women with milder forms (rASRM I/II 42.1% [32.6%-51.4%] vs. rASRM III/IV 30.8% [22.6%-38.7%], compared with 22.0% [16.7%-27.0%] in CW), and in women with superficial peritoneal endometriosis (42.0% [32.0%-53.9%]) compared with ovarian endometriosis (28.6% [17.7%-38.7%]) and deep infiltrating endometriosis (33.9% [21.2%-46.0%]) compared with CW (22.0% [16.7%-27.0%]).CONCLUSION(S): Mild endometriosis, as in superficial lesions, is related to a great extent of inflammatory disorder, possibly leading to defective folliculogenesis, fertilization, and/or implantation, presenting as increased risk of miscarriage.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT02511626. labels: #Abortion, Spontaneous#Adolescent#Adult#Cross-Sectional Studies#Endometriosis#Europe#Female#Fertility#Humans#Infertility, Female#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Pregnancy#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: To compare total antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone (AMH), proAMH, AMHN,C, and the ratio of the two forms in predictive models for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) diagnosis. Total AMH consists of proAMH (inactive precursor) and AMHN,C(receptor-competent), but neither isoform has been tested individually for their ability to predict PCOS diagnosis.DESIGN: Cross-sectional study using biobanked samples collected between July 2008 and January\xc2\xa02010.SETTING: Not applicable.PATIENT(S): Overweight, premenopausal women aged 18-45\xc2\xa0years with PCOS (n = 45, with 21 fulfilling National Institutes of Health diagnostic criteria and 24 fulfilling European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology/American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ESHRE) criteria, but not National Institutes of Health criteria) and without PCOS (n = 23 controls).INTERVENTION(S): None.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Serum concentrations of proAMH and total AMH (proAMH and AMHN,Ccombined) were determined by immunoassay. The AMHN,Cconcentrations were calculated by subtraction ([AMHN,C] = [total AMH]- [proAMH]). Relative levels of proAMH were expressed as the AMH prohormone index (API = [ProAMH]/[Total AMH] \xc3\x97 100).RESULT(S): In women with PCOS, total AMH, proAMH, and AMHN,Clevels were higher, and the API was lower (P=.010), than in controls indicating increased conversion of proAMH to AMHN,C. Receiver-operating characteristic analysis for proAMH (area under the curve [AUC] = 0.82), AMHN,C(AUC = 0.86), and API (AUC = 0.70) did not improve the prediction for PCOS when compared with total AMH (AUC = 0.86).CONCLUSION(S): The proAMH and AMHN,Cdo not appear to improve the ability to predict a diagnosis of PCOS beyond total AMH assays. However, the ratio of inactive proAMH precursor to receptor-competent AMHN,C(API) differs in women with PCOS relative to unaffected controls indicating that AMH signaling mechanisms may be altered in women with PCOS. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anti-Mullerian Hormone#Area Under Curve#Biomarkers#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Polycystic Ovary Syndrome#Predictive Value of Tests#Prognosis#Protein Isoforms#Protein Precursors#ROC Curve#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to acutely visualize radiofrequency ablation lesions, but its accuracy in predicting chronic lesion size is unknown. The main goal of this study was to characterize different areas of enhancement in late gadolinium enhancement MRI done immediately after ablation to predict acute edema and chronic lesion size.METHODS AND RESULTS: In a canine model (n=10), ventricular radiofrequency lesions were created using ThermoCool SmartTouch (Biosense Webster) catheter. All animals underwent MRI (late gadolinium enhancement and T2-weighted edema imaging) immediately after ablation and after 1, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. Edema, microvascular obstruction, and enhanced volumes were identified in MRI and normalized to chronic histological volume. Immediately after contrast administration, the microvascular obstruction region was 3.2\xc2\xb11.1 times larger than the chronic lesion volume in acute MRI. Even 60 minutes after contrast administration, edema was 8.7\xc2\xb13.31 times and the enhanced area 6.14\xc2\xb12.74 times the chronic lesion volume. Exponential fit to the microvascular obstruction volume was found to be the best predictor of chronic lesion volume at 26.14 minutes (95% prediction interval, 24.35-28.11 minutes) after contrast injection. The edema volume in late gadolinium enhancement correlated well with edema volume in T2-weighted MRI with anR2of 0.99.CONCLUSION: Microvascular obstruction region on acute late gadolinium enhancement images acquired 26.1 minutes after contrast administration can accurately predict the chronic lesion volume. We also show that T1-weighted MRI images acquired immediately after contrast injection accurately shows edema resulting from radiofrequency ablation. labels: #Animals#Biopsy#Catheter Ablation#Cicatrix#Contrast Media#Coronary Circulation#Dogs#Edema, Cardiac#Heart Ventricles#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Meglumine#Microcirculation#Models, Animal#Organometallic Compounds#Predictive Value of Tests#Time Factors'
b'Pigmentary hypertrichosis and non-autoimmune insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (PHID) is associated with recessive mutations inSLC29A3, encoding the equilibrative nucleoside transporter hENT3 expressed in mitochondria, causing PHID and H syndromes, familial Rosai-Dorfman disease, and histiocytosis-lymphadenopathy-plus syndrome. Autoinflammation is increasingly recognized in these syndromes. We previously reported a 16-year-old girl with PHID syndrome associated with severe autoinflammation that was recalcitrant to interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 blockade. Tocilizumab is a humanized, monoclonal, anti-human interleukin-6 receptor antibody routinely used to treat arthritis in children and adults. Herein we report the first case of successful treatment of PHID syndrome using tocilizumab. Before commencing tocilizumab, there was evidence of significant systemic inflammation, and progressive sclerodermatous changes (physician global assessment [PGA] 7/10). Twelve weeks after starting tocilizumab (8 mg/kg every 2 weeks, intravenously) systemic inflammatory symptoms improved, and acute phase response markers normalized; serum amyloid A reduced from 178 to 8.4 mg/L. After a dose increase to 12 mg/kg every 2 weeks her energy levels, appetite, fevers, and night sweats further improved. Less skin tightness (PGA 5/10) was documented 12 months later. This excellent clinical and serological response was sustained over 48 months, and cutaneous sclerosis had improved further (PGA 3/10). Her height remained well below the 0.4th centile, and tocilizumab also had no impact on her diabetes or exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. Although the mechanism of autoinflammation of PHID remains uncertain, we suggest that tocilizumab should be the first choice when considering treatment of the autoinflammatory or cutaneous manifestations of this genetic disease. labels: #Adolescent#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Contracture#Female#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Histiocytosis#Humans#Mutation#Nucleoside Transport Proteins#Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b'Purpose: To test the hypothesis that retinal vascular diameter and hemoglobin oxygen saturation alterations, according to stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR), are discernible with a commercially available scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO).Methods: One hundred eighty-one subjects with no diabetes (No DM), diabetes with no DR (No DR), nonproliferative DR (NPDR), or proliferative DR (PDR, all had photocoagulation) underwent imaging with an SLO with dual lasers (532 nm and 633 nm). Customized image analysis software determined the diameters of retinal arteries and veins (DA and DV) and central retinal artery and vein equivalents (CRAE and CRVE). Oxygen saturations of hemoglobin in arteries and veins (SO2A and SO2V) were estimated from optical densities of vessels on images at the two wavelengths. Statistical models were generated by adjusting for effects of sex, race, age, eye, and fundus pigmentation.Results: DA, CRAE, and CRVE were reduced in PDR compared to No DM (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.03). DV and CRVE were similar between No DM and No DR, but they were higher in NPDR than No DR (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.01). Effect of stage of disease on SO2A differed by race, being increased relative to No DM in NPDR and PDR in Hispanic participants only (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.02). Relative to No DM, SO2V was increased in NPDR and PDR (P \xe2\x89\xa4 0.05).Conclusions: Alterations in retinal vascular diameters and SO2 by diabetic retinopathy stage can be detected with a widely available SLO, and covariates such as race can influence the results. labels: #Adult#Aged#Diabetic Retinopathy#Equipment Design#Female#Hemoglobins#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ophthalmoscopes#Oximetry#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Retinal Vessels'
b'Purpose: Dry eye syndrome (DES) can cause blindness in severe cases, but mainly palliative treatments exist. A tissue-engineered lacrimal gland (LG) could provide a curative treatment. We aimed to evaluate decellularized porcine jejunum (SIS-Muc) as a scaffold for porcine LG epithelial cells.Methods: To evaluate SIS-Muc as a potential scaffold, basement membrane proteins in SIS-Muc and native LG were compared (immunohistochemistry [IHC]). Porcine LG epithelial cells cultured on plastic were characterized (immunocytochemistry), and their culture supernatant was compared with porcine tears (proteomics). Epithelial cells were then seeded onto SIS-Muc in either a static (cell crown) or dynamic culture (within a perfusion chamber) and metabolic (3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) and secretory capacities (\xce\xb2-hexosaminidase assay), protein expression (IHC), and ultrastructure transmission electron microscopy (TEM) compared in each.Results: Collagen IV and laminin were found in both native LG and SIS-Muc. When cultured on plastic, LG epithelial cells expressed pan-cytokeratin, Rab3D, HexA, and produced mucins, but lysozyme and lactoferrin expression was nearly absent. Some porcine tear proteins (lipocalin-2 and lactoferrin) were found in LG epithelial cell culture supernatants. When LG cells were cultured on SIS-Muc, metabolic and \xce\xb2-hexosaminidase activities were greater in dynamic cultures than static cultures (P<0.05). In both static and dynamic cultures, cells expressed pan-cytokeratin, Rab3D, lysozyme, and lactoferrin and produced mucins, and TEM revealed cell polarization at the apical surface and cell-cell and cell-scaffold contacts.Conclusions: SIS-Muc is a suitable scaffold for LG cell expansion and may be useful toward reconstruction of LG tissue to provide a curative treatment for DES. Dynamic culture enhances cell metabolic and functional activities. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Disease Models, Animal#Dry Eye Syndromes#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Immunohistochemistry#Jejunum#Lacrimal Apparatus#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Ophthalmologic Surgical Procedures#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Swine#Tissue Engineering'
b'A 2240 gram boy was born at 33.2 weeks gestation with nonblanching, deeply erythematous plaques and papules on the back, flanks, and scalp (Figure 1). His mother was GBS positive and on antibiotic suppression for prior cutaneous MRSA and urinary tract infections. Intrapartum intravenous Penicillin G was administered, and the amniotic sac was artificially ruptured 4 hours prior to delivery to facilitate labor. The delivery was uncomplicated without concern for chorioamnionitis, but the patient initially required CPAP for respiratory distress with 1-minute and 5-minute Apgar scores of 7 and 8, respectively. A skin punch biopsy is shown (Figure 2). labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Apgar Score#Biopsy, Needle#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gestational Age#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Impetigo#Infant, Newborn#Infant, Premature#Male#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Newborn#Streptococcal Infections#Treatment Outcome'
b'We propose and analyze a compartmental nonlinear deterministic mathematical model for the typhoid fever outbreak and optimal control strategies in a community with varying population. The model is studied qualitatively using stability theory of differential equations and the basic reproductive number that represents the epidemic indicator is obtained from the largest eigenvalue of the next-generation matrix. Both local and global asymptotic stability conditions for disease-free and endemic equilibria are determined. The model exhibits a forward transcritical bifurcation and the sensitivity analysis is performed. The optimal control problem is designed by applying Pontryagin maximum principle with three control strategies, namely, the prevention strategy through sanitation, proper hygiene, and vaccination; the treatment strategy through application of appropriate medicine; and the screening of the carriers. The cost functional accounts for the cost involved in prevention, screening, and treatment together with the total number of the infected persons averted. Numerical results for the typhoid outbreak dynamics and its optimal control revealed that a combination of prevention and treatment is the best cost-effective strategy to eradicate the disease. labels: #Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Mass Screening#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Nonlinear Dynamics#Typhoid Fever'
b"In the frame of Higuchi's type functionality, this paper presents the anisotropy influences on the drug delivery mechanisms through the joint invariant functions to the simultaneous actions of the two SL(2R) isomorphic groups. Then, a new equation for drug delivery mechanism, independent of the type of polymer matrix and/or drug, is proposed. labels: #Anisotropy#Biocompatible Materials#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Diffusion#Drug Delivery Systems#Humans#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Polymers"
b'Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a syndrome with predominantly defective B cell function. However, abnormalities in the number and function of other lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood (PB) have been described in most patients. We have analysed the distribution of iNKT cell subpopulations in the PB of CVID patients and the ability of these cells to provide in\xc2\xa0vitro cognate B cell help. The total of iNKT cells was reduced in the PB of CVID patients, especially CD4+, CD4-/CD8- and CCR5+/CXCR3+. These findings were associated with an enrichment of memory-like and a tendency towards a reduction in TNF-\xce\xb1-expressing effector iNKT cells in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of CVID patients. Moreover, an accumulation of follicular helper iNKT cells in the PB of CVID patients was demonstrated. CVID \xce\xb1GalCer-pulsed iNKT cells are not able to induce autologous B cell proliferation although they do induce proliferation to healthy donor B cells. Interestingly, autologous and heterologous co-cultures did not differ in the amount of immunoglobulin secreted by B cells in\xc2\xa0vitro. Finally, reduced intracellular SAP expression in iNKT cells and other lymphocytes in the blood from CVID patients was observed. These results provide further insights into the immunological mechanisms underlying the iNKT cell defects and the potential targets to improve B cell help in CVID. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#B-Lymphocytes#CD4 Antigens#CD8 Antigens#Cell Communication#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Coculture Techniques#Common Variable Immunodeficiency#Female#Galactosylceramides#Humans#Immunoglobulins#Immunologic Memory#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Middle Aged#Natural Killer T-Cells#Receptors, CCR5#Receptors, CXCR3#Saposins#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Leishmania is a protozoan parasite that alternates its life cycle between the sand-fly vector and the mammalian host. This alternation involves environmental changes and leads the parasite to dynamic modifications in morphology, metabolism, cellular signaling and regulation of gene expression to allow for a rapid adaptation to new conditions. The L-arginine pathway in L. amazonensis is important during the parasite life cycle and interferes in the establishment and maintenance of the infection in mammalian macrophages. Host arginase is an immune-regulatory enzyme that can reduce the production of nitric oxide by activated macrophages, directing the availability of L-arginine to the polyamine pathway, resulting in parasite replication. In this work, we performed transcriptional profiling to identify differentially expressed genes in L. amazonensis wild-type (La-WT) versus L. amazonensis arginase knockout (La-arg-) promastigotes and axenic amastigotes.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A total of 8253 transcripts were identified in La-WT and La-arg- promastigotes and axenic amastigotes, about 60% of them codifying hypothetical proteins and 443 novel transcripts, which did not match any previously annotated genes. Our RNA-seq data revealed that 85% of genes were constitutively expressed. The comparison of transcriptome and metabolome data showed lower levels of arginase and higher levels of glutamate-5-kinase in La-WT axenic amastigotes compared to promastigotes. The absence of arginase activity in promastigotes increased the levels of pyrroline 5-carboxylate reductase, but decreased the levels of arginosuccinate synthase, pyrroline 5-carboxylate dehydrogenase, acetylornithine deacetylase and spermidine synthase transcripts levels. These observations can explain previous metabolomic data pointing to the increase of L-arginine, citrulline and L-glutamate and reduction of aspartate, proline, ornithine and putrescine. Altogether, these results indicate that arginase activity is important in Leishmania gene expression modulation during differentiation and adaptation to environmental changes. Here, we confirmed this hypothesis with the identification of differential gene expression of the enzymes involved in biosynthesis of amino acids, arginine and proline metabolism and arginine biosynthesis.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: All data provided information about the transcriptomic profiling and the expression levels of La-WT and La-arg- promastigotes and axenic amastigotes. These findings revealed the importance of arginase in parasite survival and differentiation, and indicated the existence of a coordinated response in the absence of arginase activity related to arginine and polyamine pathways. labels: #Arginase#Arginine#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Knockout Techniques#Leishmania mexicana#Macrophages#Nitric Oxide#Polyamines#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'The interferon (IFN)-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15) encodes one of the most abundant proteins induced by interferon, and its expression is associated with antiviral immunity. To identify protein components implicated in IFN and ISG15 signaling, we compared the proteomes of ISG15-/- and ISG15+/+ bone marrow derived macrophages (BMDM) after vaccinia virus (VACV) infection. The results of this analysis revealed that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were pathways altered in ISG15-/- BMDM treated with IFN. Mitochondrial respiration, Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was higher in ISG15+/+ BMDM than in ISG15-/- BMDM following IFN treatment, indicating the involvement of ISG15-dependent mechanisms. An additional consequence of ISG15 depletion was a significant change in macrophage polarization. Although infected ISG15-/- macrophages showed a robust proinflammatory cytokine expression pattern typical of an M1 phenotype, a clear blockade of nitric oxide (NO) production and arginase-1 activation was detected. Accordingly, following IFN treatment, NO release was higher in ISG15+/+ macrophages than in ISG15-/- macrophages concomitant with a decrease in viral titer. Thus, ISG15-/- macrophages were permissive for VACV replication following IFN treatment. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that ISG15 governs the dynamic functionality of mitochondria, specifically, OXPHOS and mitophagy, broadening its physiological role as an antiviral agent. labels: #Animals#Arginase#Cytokines#Enzyme Activation#Macrophages#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Degradation#Nitric Oxide#Oxidative Phosphorylation#Ubiquitins#Vaccinia#Vaccinia virus'
b'Background: For health care providers in the United States, the risk for nonfatal violence in the workplace is 16 times greater than that for other workers. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior (IPSB) is directed at clinicians, staff, or other patients and may include leering, sexual remarks, deliberate touching, indecent exposure, and sexual assault. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior may adversely affect clinicians, the organization, or patients themselves. Few IPSB risk factors for physical therapists have been confirmed. The US prevalence was last assessed in the 1990s.Objective: The objectives of this study were to determine career and 12-month exposure to IPSB among US physical therapists, physical therapist assistants, physical therapist students, and physical therapist assistant students and to identify IPSB risk factors.Design: This was a retrospective and observational study.Methods: An electronic survey was developed; content validity and test-retest reliability were established. Participants were recruited through physical therapist and physical therapist assistant academic programs and sections of the American Physical Therapy Association. Inappropriate patient sexual behavior risk models were constructed individually for any, mild, moderate, and severe IPSB events reported over the past 12 months. Open-ended comments were analyzed using qualitative methods.Results: Eight hundred ninety-two physical therapist professionals and students completed the survey. The career prevalence among respondents was 84%, and the 12-month prevalence was 47%. Statistical risk modeling for any IPSB over the past 12 months indicated the following risks: having fewer years of direct patient care, routinely working with patients with cognitive impairments, being a female practitioner, and treating male patients. Qualitative analysis of 187 open-ended comments revealed patient-related characteristics, provider-related characteristics, and abusive actions.Limitations: Self-report, clinician memory, and convenience sampling are limitations of this type of survey research.Conclusions: The extremely high prevalence of IPSB among physical therapist professionals warrants practitioner and student education as well as clear workplace policy and support. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Physical Therapy Specialty#Physician-Patient Relations#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk#Risk Factors#Sex Offenses#Sexual Behavior#United States'
b'Background: There is significant need for trials evaluating the long-term effectiveness of a rigorous program of perioperative behavioral therapy with pelvic floor muscle training (BPMT) in women undergoing transvaginal reconstructive surgery for prolapse.Objective: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of perioperative BPMT on health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and sexual function following vaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse (POP) and stress urinary incontinence (SUI).Design: This study is a secondary report of a 2 \xc3\x97 2 factorial randomized controlled trial.Setting: This study was a multicenter trial.Participants: Participants were adult women with stage 2-4 POP and SUI.Intervention: Perioperative BPMT versus usual care and sacrospinous ligament fixation (SSLF) versus uterosacral ligament suspension (ULS) were provided.Measurements: Participants undergoing transvaginal surgery (SSLF or ULS for POP and a midurethral sling for SUI) received usual care or five perioperative BPMT visits. The primary outcome was change in body image and in Pelvic Floor Impact Questionnaire (PFIQ) short-form subscale, 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), Pelvic Organ Prolapse-Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire short form (PISQ-12), Patient Global Impression of Improvement (PGII), and Brink scores.Results: The 374 participants were randomized to BPMT (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0186) and usual care (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0188). Outcomes were available for 137 (74%) of BPMT participants and 146 (78%) of the usual care participants at 24 months. There were no statistically significant differences between groups in PFIQ, SF-36, PGII, PISQ-12, or body image scale measures.Limitations: The clinicians providing BPMT had variable expertise. Findings might not apply to vaginal prolapse procedures without slings or abdominal apical prolapse procedures.Conclusions: Perioperative BPMT performed as an adjunct to vaginal surgery for POP and SUI provided no additional improvement in QOL or sexual function compared with usual care. labels: #Behavior Therapy#Body Image#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Pelvic Organ Prolapse#Perioperative Care#Quality of Life#Resistance Training#Sexual Behavior#Suburethral Slings#Surveys and Questionnaires#Treatment Outcome'
b'Background: The Activity Measure for Post-Acute Care (AM-PAC) is a generic metric of patient-reported functional status. The minimal clinically important difference (MCID) in the AM-PAC score has not been determined.Objective: The study objective was to determine the MCID for AM-PAC in people with low back pain.Design: This was a retrospective cohort study.Methods: Anchor-based and distribution-based methods were used to estimate the MCID. The Modified Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire was used as the anchor. Adults who had a primary ICD-9 code for low back pain in at least 1 outpatient physical therapist visit during an episode of care and who completed both the AM-PAC and the Modified Low Back Pain Disability Questionnaire in at least 2 visits during the care episode were included. The MCID was calculated for the AM-PAC basic mobility version as well its adapted version, which the Cleveland Clinic uses for patients 65 years old or older.Results: A total of 1,271 participants were eligible for study. For the AM-PAC basic mobility version, anchor-based methods yielded MCID estimates of between 3.4 and 5.1, whereas distribution-based methods yielded estimates of 1.7 to 4.2. The minimal detectable change (MDC) for the AM-PAC basic mobility version was 3.3. For the adapted AM-PAC basic mobility version, the MCID was estimated to be between 2.9 and 4.0 via anchor-based methods and between 1.2 to 3.5 via distribution-based methods. The MDC for the adapted AM-PAC basic mobility version was 3.5.Limitations: The estimated MCID was designed for people with low back pain only.Conclusions: The MCID ranged from 3.3 to 5.1 for the AM-PAC basic mobility version and 3.5 to 4 for the adapted version, with the MDC as the lower limit. Changes in the AM-PAC for people with low back pain may be interpreted using the estimated MCID. Future studies are needed to determine the AM-PAC MCID for populations other than those with low back pain. labels: #Adult#Disability Evaluation#Exercise#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Middle Aged#Minimal Clinically Important Difference#Pain Measurement#Patient Reported Outcome Measures#Retrospective Studies#Subacute Care#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b"Background: Evidence-based guidelines are needed to inform rehabilitation practice, including the effect of number of exercise training sessions on recovery of walking ability after stroke.Objective: The objective of this study was to determine the response to increasing number of training sessions of 2 interventions-locomotor training and strength and balance exercises-on poststroke walking recovery.Design: This is a secondary analysis of the Locomotor Experience Applied Post-Stroke (LEAPS) randomized controlled trial.Setting: Six rehabilitation sites in California and Florida and participants' homes were used.Participants: Participants were adults who dwelled in the community (N=347), had had a stroke, were able to walk at least 3 m (10 ft) with assistance, and had completed the required number of intervention sessions.Intervention: Participants received 36 sessions (3 times per week for 12 weeks), 90 minutes in duration, of locomotor training (gait training on a treadmill with body-weight support and overground training) or strength and balance training.Measurements: Talking speed, as measured by the 10-Meter Walk Test, and 6-minute walking distance were assessed before training and following 12, 24, and 36 intervention sessions.Results: Participants at 2 and 6 months after stroke gained in gait speed and walking endurance after up to 36 sessions of treatment, but the rate of gain diminished steadily and, on average, was very low during the 25- to 36-session epoch, regardless of treatment type or severity of impairment.Limitations: Results may not generalize to people who are unable to initiate a step at 2 months after stroke or people with severe cardiac disease.Conclusions: In general, people who dwelled in the community showed improvements in gait speed and walking distance with up to 36 sessions of locomotor training or strength and balance exercises at both 2 and 6 months after stroke. However, gains beyond 24 sessions tended to be very modest. The tracking of individual response trajectories is imperative in planning treatment. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postural Balance#Recovery of Function#Resistance Training#Single-Blind Method#Stroke#Stroke Rehabilitation#Treatment Outcome#Walking#Walking Speed"
b'Background: The Pelvic Girdle Questionnaire (PGQ) is a condition-specific measure for women with pelvic girdle pain (PGP). The PGQ includes items relating to activity/participation and bodily symptoms and has reliability, validity, and feasibility for use in research and clinical practice.Objective: The purposes of this study were to examine the responsiveness of the PGQ, to determine the minimal important change (MIC) for the PGQ, and to compare the PGQ with other outcome measures.Design: This study used a prospective cohort design.Methods: A total of 801 women responded to a booklet of questionnaires in the last trimester of their pregnancy and within 3 months post partum. Responsiveness analyses followed recommendations from the Consensus-Based Standards for the Selection of Health Measurement Instruments (COSMIN) checklist. The responsiveness of the PGQ was tested by examining correlations between the change scores of the total PGQ and the other patient-reported outcome measures.Results: A total of 606 women (76%) reported PGP, low back pain, or both. Of these women, 441 (73%) responded to the follow-up questionnaire post partum. The PGQ (both subscale and total scores) discriminated most accurately between participants who improved and those who did not improve, with an area under the receiver operator characteristic curve of 72%. The MIC values indicated that a change score smaller than 25 for the total score and activity subscale score and a change score of 20 for the symptom subscale score should be regarded as insignificant. Baseline PGQ scores had a large impact on the MIC estimates for the absolute change scores but not on the relative percentage change scores. Five of 6 hypotheses were supported (83%).Limitations: The type of anchor and definition of important change used might be weaknesses in women whose status is changing from pregnant to post partum.Conclusions: The PGQ showed acceptable responsiveness in women with PGP, low back pain, or both. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Minimal Clinically Important Difference#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Pelvic Girdle Pain#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'So called "personalized therapy" has revolutionized the care of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The discovery of more and more driver mutations in NSCLC has led to a molecular defined sub classification of lung cancer patients. For four driver mutations (EGFRmut, ALKtransl, ROS1transl, BRAF-V600mut) firstline approved drugs are available and became the treatment of choice. Further drugs are in clinical development or can be used as off-label treatment. The emergence of resistance under targeted therapy, the development of new drugs for further driver mutations and the broad implementation of molecular diagnostics for all lung cancer patients are future challenges. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Mutation#Precision Medicine'
b'Within the last years, significant improvements have been achieved in breast cancer treatment, particularly with the development of targeted therapies. Major progress has been made in identifying the drivers malignant growth in oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer and the mechanisms of resistance to endocrine therapy. This progress has translated into several targeted therapies that enhance the efficacy of endocrine therapy; inhibitors of the cyclin-dependent kinases CDK4 and CDK6 like palbociclib and inhibitors of mTOR substantially improve progression-free survival. For patients with HER2-positive disease the addition of Pertuzumab to Trastuzumab in combination with chemotherapy has been a significant improvement in anti-HER2 therapy in early as well as metastatic breast cancer. Evidence-based further line therapy options in the metastatic setting include T-DM1 and in later lines Lapatinib. For triple negative disease the angiogenesis inhibitor Bevacizumab is approved, which increases progression free survival. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, PARP-inhibitors or anti-androgens represent promising strategies, all of which are currently being evaluated in clinical trials. The development of predictive biomarkers to guide targeted therapies is still the subject of research. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Molecular Targeted Therapy'
b'Colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is a major cause for cancer related death in Western countries. Particularly in the metastatic stage (mCRC) 5-year survival rate remains low at around 15\xe2\x80\x8a%. Treatment decisions are influenced by tumor stage, location of the primary, and extend of metastases. The multidisciplinary tumor board with an experienced hepato-biliary surgeon, an interventional radiologist, the medical oncologist, the molecular pathologist and the radiation oncologist will gain further importance in the quest for the optimal treatment for each patient. In the adjuvant setting, next to the established clinical risk factors, individualization especially for UICC-stage II patients can be done according to the CDX2-expression, the MSI-status, and perhaps the PIK3-status. In the metastatic stage, RAS and BRAF mutational analyses are pivotal to choose the best treatment for our patients. Primary tumor location in RAS-wild-type patients is further helping the clinician to tailor first-line treatment. Ongoing phase-III-trials will further help the clinician to come to a personalized decision. labels: #Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#DNA Mutational Analysis#Humans#Precision Medicine#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Survival Analysis'
b'Medical history\xe2\x80\x82We report on a 51-year-old male patient with thoracic pain of acute onset with radiation in the left arm. His cardiovascular risk factors include obesity, smoking and arterial hypertension.Investigations\xe2\x80\x82ECG showed no signs of ischemia. The blood\xc2\xa0test revealed increasing troponin (37\xe2\x80\x8apg/ml; Norm<\xe2\x80\x8a14\xe2\x80\x8apg/ml). Therefore we performed cardiac catheterization. The RIVA demonstrated a medial filling defect. Use of OCT imaging showed intimal rupture associated with thrombus.Treatment and course\xe2\x80\x82The lesion was stented with a drug eluting stent. We initiated a medication with aspirin, ticagrelor, metoprolol and simvastatin.Conclusion\xe2\x80\x82Coronary thrombosis of our patient was caused by spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD). SCAD\xe2\x80\x8ais an important differential diagnosis in patients with ACS. Further prospective studies and guideline recommendations are needed in the future. labels: #Chest Pain#Coronary Thrombosis#Coronary Vessel Anomalies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Non-ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction#Risk Factors#Vascular Diseases'
b'INTRODUCTION: Soft tissue occlusion of the external auditory canal (EAC) can cause intense pruritis, recurrent foul smelling otorrhea, recurrent otitis externa, and conductive hearing loss. Occlusion of the EAC can be challenging to treat as the area is prone to circumferential scarring.METHODS: We describe the novel use of serial bipolar radiofrequency ablation (coblation) to treat 3 children with complete EAC occlusion from congenital and acquired conditions including lymphedema (1), microcystic lymphatic malformation (1), and venolymphatic malformation (1).RESULTS: Patients underwent a mean of 3 procedures with postoperative EAC stenting (7 days) and antibiotic and steroid aural preparations (10 days). Otologic symptoms resolved in all patients, and their EACs remained patent 14 months after last procedure (range, 4-32 months). One patient experienced a pinpoint tympanic membrane perforation that healed spontaneously 2 weeks later.CONCLUSIONS: Coblation of soft tissue stenosis of the EAC can be an effective treatment for this problematic condition. labels: #Catheter Ablation#Child#Child, Preschool#Ear Canal#Ear Diseases#Female#Humans#Infant#Lymphatic Abnormalities#Male'
b'OBJECTIVES: Occupational voice users report higher instances of vocal health problems. Women, who are more likely than men to report voice problems, are the largest members of some occupational voice users, such as teachers. While a common complaint among this population is vocal fatigue, it has been difficult to quantify. Therefore, the goal of this study is to quantify vocal fatigue generally in school teachers and investigate any related gender differences.METHODS: Six hundred forty (518 female, 122 male) teachers were surveyed using an online questionnaire consisting in part of the Vocal Fatigue Index (VFI), an index specifically designed to quantify vocal fatigue.RESULTS: Compared to vocally healthy adults, the teachers surveyed were 3 times as likely to report vocal tiredness or vocal avoidance and over 3 times as likely to report physical voice discomfort. Additionally, female teachers were more likely to have scores approaching those with dysphonia.CONCLUSIONS: The VFI quantified elevated levels of vocal fatigue in teachers, with a significant prevalence of symptoms reported among females compared to males. Further, because the VFI indicated elevated complaints (between normal and dysphonic) in a population likely to be elevated, the VFI might be used to identify early indications of voice problems and/or track recovery. labels: #Adult#Educational Personnel#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Diseases#Prevalence#Sex Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires#Voice Disorders#Voice Quality'
b'OBJECTIVES: Tissue engineering of auricular cartilage has great potential in providing readily available materials for reconstructive surgeries. As the field of tissue engineering moves forward to developing human tissues, there needs to be an interspecies comparison of the native auricular cartilage in order to determine a suitable animal model to assess the performance of engineered auricular cartilage in vivo.METHODS: Here, we performed interspecies comparisons of auricular cartilage by comparing tissue microstructure, protein localization, biochemical composition, and mechanical properties of auricular cartilage tissues from rat, rabbit, pig, cow, and human.RESULTS: Human, pig, and cow auricular cartilage have smaller lacunae compared to rat and rabbit cartilage ( P<.05). Despite differences in tissue microstructure, human auricular cartilage has similar biochemical composition to both rat and rabbit. Auricular cartilage from pig and cow, alternatively, display significantly higher glycosaminoglycan and collagen contents compared to human, rat, and rabbit ( P<.05). The mechanical properties of human auricular cartilage were comparable to that of all 4 animal species.CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study that compares the microstructural, biochemical, and mechanical properties of auricular cartilage from different species. This study showed that different experimental animal models of human auricular cartilage may be suitable in different cases. labels: #Animals#Cattle#Ear Cartilage#Humans#Models, Animal#Rabbits#Rats#Swine#Tissue Engineering'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of in-office potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) treatment of vocal fold granulomas and identify any predictors of complete lesion resolution.METHODS: A retrospective review of patients who underwent in-office KTP ablation of vocal fold granulomas between 2007 and 2016 was performed. Medical records were reviewed for use of acid suppression medication, prior surgical treatment, voice therapy, laser settings, number of treatments, follow-up time, and Voice Handicap Index-10 (VHI-10) scores.RESULTS: Twenty-six patients underwent a total of 43 laser treatments. Eighty percent of patients were previously on acid suppression medication, and 42.3% had failed previous endoscopic treatments. Patients underwent a mean number of 1.65 \xc2\xb1 1.16 in-office treatments with decrease in size in 96.2% of cases. The VHI-10 was not significantly affected. Complete resolution occurred in 73.1% of cases with follow-up time ranging from 1 to 86 months (median = 9.5 months). No recurrences occurred in patients with complete resolution. Other than undergoing a single KTP treatment, no variable was found to be predictive of complete lesion resolution. Granuloma etiology was not predictive of lesion resolution but did correlate with symptom improvement.CONCLUSION: In-office pulsed KTP laser is an effective treatment option for vocal fold granulomas as the lesion resolves in the majority of cases. labels: #Aged#Ambulatory Surgical Procedures#Female#Granuloma, Laryngeal#Humans#Laser Therapy#Lasers, Solid-State#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vocal Cords#Voice Quality'
b'BACKGROUND: Stimuli-responsive polymer materials are a new kind of intelligent materials based on the concept of bionics, which exhibits more significant changes in physicochemical properties upon triggered by tiny environment stimuli, hence providing a good carrier platform for antitumor drug delivery.RESULTS: Dual stimuli-responsive Fe3O4graft poly(acrylic acid)-block-poly(2-methacryloyloxyethyl ferrocenecarboxylate) block copolymers (Fe3O4-g-PAA-b-PMAEFC) were engineered and synthesized through a two-step sequential reversible addition-fragmentation chain transfer polymerization route. The characterization was performed by FTIR,1H NMR, SEC, XRD and TGA techniques. The self-assembly behavior in aqueous solution upon triggered by pH, magnetic and redox stimuli was investigated via zeta potentials, vibration sample magnetometer, cyclic voltammetry, fluorescent spectrometry, dynamic light scattering, XPS, TEM and SEM measurements. The experimental results indicated that the Fe3O4-g-PAA-b-PMAEFC copolymer materials could spontaneously assemble into hybrid magnetic copolymer micromicelles with core-shell structure, and exhibited superparamagnetism, redox and pH stimuli-responsive features. The hybrid copolymer micromicelles were stable and nontoxic, and could entrap hydrophobic anticancer drug, which was in turn swiftly and effectively delivered from the drug-loaded micromicelles at special microenvironments such as acidic pH and high reactive oxygen species.CONCLUSION: This class of stimuli-responsive copolymer materials is expected to find wide applications in medical science and biology, etc., especially in drug delivery system. labels: #Acrylic Resins#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Cell Line, Tumor#Delayed-Action Preparations#Drug Delivery Systems#Drug Liberation#Ferrosoferric Oxide#Ferrous Compounds#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Magnetic Fields#Micelles#Neoplasms#Oxidation-Reduction#Paclitaxel#Polymers'
b'BACKGROUND: Cerebral salt-wasting syndrome (CSWS) was initially described over 60 years ago in hyponatremic patients with a cerebral lesion. However, the diagnostic criteria for CSWS have not been fully established. Thus, when hyponatremia is observed in patients with CSWS, they may be misdiagnosed as having the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Thus, it is critical to differentiate between these 2 conditions because their treatments are diametrically opposed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of 45 patients with CSWS and compared them to 60 normonatremic control patients, and 28 patients with SIADH. All patients had their 24-hour urine volumes and sodium (Na) excretion measured.RESULTS: In patients with CSWS, urinary Na excretion was 394 \xc2\xb1 369mmol/24 hours and urinary volume was 2,603 \xc2\xb1 996mL/24 hours; both values significantly greater than in controls (P<0.01). By contrast, in patients with SIADH, the urine Na excretion was only 51 \xc2\xb1 25mmol/24 hours and urine volume was 745 \xc2\xb1 298mL/24 hours; values significantly lower than in patients with CSWS (P<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: CSWS was diagnosed in patients with cerebral lesion who had (1) symptomatic hyponatremia, (2) urine Na excretion 2 standard deviations above controls and (3) increased urine volume. Patients with SIADH also had symptomatic hyponatremia but, in contrast to patients with CSWS, they had decreased Na excretion and urine volume. Thus urine Na excretion and volume are very important for diagnosing the cause of hyponatremia in patients with cerebral lesions. labels: #Brain Diseases#Female#Humans#Hyponatremia#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sodium#Syndrome'
b'BACKGROUND: Diabetic retinopathy (DR) is a common and specific microvascular complication of diabetes. The association of bone metabolic markers with the risk of DR and diabetic macular edema (DME) is unclear.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We investigated the association between bone turnover markers commonly examined in a clinical setting and DR and DME risk in elderly Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). A total of 408 patients aged 55-70 years with T2DM were included. We first performed univariable logistic regression followed by multivariable logistic regression that included variables selected using purposeful selection.RESULTS: Fasting blood glucose (P = 0.007) and duration of diabetes (P<0.0001) were significantly associated with DME in multivariable logistic regression; however, the association of beta C-terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (\xce\xb2-CTx) with DME risk was not statistically significant (P = 0.053). Sex-stratified analysis showed that \xce\xb2-CTx was significantly associated with DME only in female subjects (P = 0.011).CONCLUSIONS: \xce\xb2-CTx had no significant association with DR. It was significantly associated with DME in female patients with T2DM, but not in male patients with T2DM. More prospective studies with larger sample sizes are warranted to validate our findings. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Bone Remodeling#Collagen Type I#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Macular Edema#Male#Middle Aged#Peptides#Sex Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite a rise in the prevalence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), data on HCC-related hospitalizations and financial burden are limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate temporal trends of HCC-related hospitalizations and evaluate its financial influence.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with the diagnosis of HCC, as reported by International Classification of Diseases-Ninth Revision code, were identified from the National Inpatient Sample databases from 2002-2011. The national estimates of hospitalizations were derived using appropriate sample weights. The change in total average charges per each hospitalization over the study period was calculated after adjusting for inflation.RESULTS: Hospitalizations related to HCC have increased from 24,024 in 2002 to 50,609 in 2011. Of these admissions, HCC was the principal diagnosis in 10,762 and 16,350 subjects in 2002 and 2011, respectively. Most were white males (male: 70%; white: 55%). The overall inpatient mortality was significantly decreased from 13.5% in 2002 to 9.9% in 2011 (P<0.01). The same trend was also observed for the length of hospital stay (6.5 versus 5.6 days in 2002 and 2011, respectively). The inflation-adjusted cost per hospitalization increased by approximately 47% during the study period.CONCLUSIONS: Despite the decrease in mortality rate and length-of-stay, hospitalizations and financial burden associated with HCC continued to increase between 2002 and 2011 in the United States. labels: #Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cost of Illness#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Variation in baseline ear temperature, taken in the unadjusted mode, has yet to be established in different age groups. Because normal body temperatures show large variations, the same may be expected for increased temperatures in fever. The aims were to study variations in normothermic body temperatures measured with an ear thermometer and to determine differences between actual and perceived body temperature during a febrile episode (referred to as difftemp) in apparently healthy children and adults.METHODS: Ear temperature was measured once in 2,006 individuals (61.7% females): 683 children aged 2 and 4 years, 492 adolescents aged 10-18 years, 685 adults aged 19-65 years and 146 elderly aged 66-89 years. Difftemp was estimated as the difference between the individual's ear body temperature, measured in the present study, and the respondent's reported temperature when feverish.RESULTS: Mean ear temperature was 36.4 \xc2\xb1 0.6\xc2\xb0C overall and in the child and adult groups. In adolescents, it was 36.5 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C, and in elderly, 36.1 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C. Temperature in men was 36.3 \xc2\xb1 0.6\xc2\xb0C, and in women, 36.5 \xc2\xb1 0.5\xc2\xb0C. Difftemp was 1.1 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in adolescents, 1.5 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in children and adults, and 1.6 \xc2\xb1 0.7\xc2\xb0C in those>65 years.CONCLUSIONS: Ear body temperature is lower than traditionally reported and differs with age and sex. An individual difftemp of 1.0-1.5\xc2\xb0C along with malaise might indicate fever. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aging#Body Temperature#Child#Child, Preschool#Ear#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Sex Factors#Thermometers"
b"BACKGROUND: Ischemic heart disease (IHD) has emerged as a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with autoimmune conditions such as systemic lupus erythematosus and rheumatoid arthritis, but the risk of IHD in Sj\xc3\xb6gren's syndrome (SjS) is unknown. To fill this knowledge gap, we estimated the prevalence and risk of IHD with SjS compared to controls from the general population using the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project National Inpatient Sample 2011 database.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project administrative longitudinal database contains encounter-level information on inpatient stays, emergency department visits and ambulatory surgery in all U.S. hospitals. We conducted a cross-sectional study among the inpatient population diagnosed with SjS and matched 1:4 with controls for age, sex and hospital region. Odds ratio for IHD was calculated as cases compared to controls. The contribution of various risk factors to IHD was also evaluated by logistic regression.RESULTS: Analysis demonstrated that 7,154 of 13,086 cases (54.7%) of SjS had IHD compared to 27,367 of 52,448 controls (52.2%). The adjusted odds ratio for IHD in those with SjS was 0.898 (95% CI: 0.844-0.955). Patients with SjS were significantly more likely to have hypertension, diabetes, apnea and lipid disorders.CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest population-based study investigating the risk of IHD in patients with SjS. We found a modest, though statistically significant, decrease in the risk of IHD in SjS compared to controls. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Ischemia#Risk Factors#Sjogren's Syndrome#United States"
b'BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is commonly associated with cognitive dysfunction, which is more apparent in severe OSA and impairs quality of life. However, the clinical screening methods for these impairments in OSA are still limited. In this study, we evaluated the feasibility of using the Memory and Executive Screening (MES) for assessing cognitive performance in OSA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients with nonsevere OSA and 36 patients with severe OSA participated in this study. All participants underwent comprehensive, laboratory-based polysomnography and completed assessments of cognitive function, which included both the MES and the Beijing version of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA-BJ).RESULTS: Both the total MES scores and 5 recall scores of the MES (MES-5R) were significantly lower in the severe OSA group than those in the nonsevere OSA group. The patients with severe OSA performed worse on the memory subtests of the MES-5R, especially on immediate recall. The sensitivity and specificity of the MES for identifying cognitive impairment in patients with OSA were 63.89% and 66.67%, respectively, for a cutoff value of<92 out of 100 points. An optimal cutoff between nonsevere and severe OSA was also set at 45 points (MES-5R) and at 0.94 points (MES ratio). Compared with the MES, the MoCA-BJ had similar sensitivity (61.11%) and specificity (66.67%).CONCLUSIONS: The MES is an acceptable tool for detecting cognitive dysfunction in patients with OSA. The sensitivity and specificity of the MES were similar to those of the MoCA-BJ. The MES-5R and total MES scores can assess the presence and severity of cognitive impairment in patients with severe OSA. labels: #Adult#Cognitive Dysfunction#Humans#Male#Memory#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive'
b'BACKGROUND: Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) has emerged as a noninvasive method for assessing inflammation in lung diseases. Our aim is to investigate the correlation between tumor necrosis factor \xce\xb1 (TNF-\xce\xb1) and interleukin 1\xce\xb2 (IL-1\xce\xb2) in EBC and in lung tissue, and between these values in EBC with pulmonary function tests in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).MATERIALS AND METHODS: To ensure the availability of lung tissue, 60 patients undergoing resection for early lung cancer were divided into 3 groups: a COPD treatment group, a COPD control group and a non-COPD group. Patients in the COPD treatment group received what was termed "lung-protective treatment" including ambroxol, budesonide and ipratropium bromide in addition to chest physiotherapy. Patients underwent pulmonary function testing and EBC collection, and TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in lung tissues were evaluated by immunoflorescense. Correlations were analyzed by Pearson correlation coefficients.RESULTS: The TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 levels in EBC were significantly higher in the COPD groups compared with the non-COPD group before surgery (all P<0.01), and the levels were significantly decreased after lung-protective treatment was received before surgery (all P<0.01). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 levels in EBC were significantly decreased in all patients after surgery with lung-protective treatment (P = 0.027, P = 0.004). TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 content in lung tissues was significantly higher in the COPD groups (all P<0.05), and the histologic analysis showed similar results. Negative correlations between FEV1/FVC and expression of TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 were observed. There was a positive correlation between TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in lung tissues and in EBC.CONCLUSIONS: TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in EBC are potential biomarkers for evaluating pulmonary function and inflammation in patients with COPD. Furthermore, lung-protective treatment is effective in reducing inflammation in patients with COPD. labels: #Aged#Ambroxol#Breath Tests#Budesonide#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Interleukin-1beta#Ipratropium#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Retrospective Studies#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'BACKGROUND: Colon cancer is a major health problem worldwide. Available treatments such as surgery, chemotherapy, radiation and anticancer drugs are limited due to stage of cancer, side effects and altered biodistribution. The use of peptides extracted from natural products has appeared as a potential therapy. Gloriosa superba is known to contain colchicine and other alkaloids with anticancer activity. However, these peptides contained within the extracts have not been studied. This study, therefore, focuses on an investigation of anti-colon cancer activity from a partially purified protein hydrolysate of G superba rhizome.METHODS: Dried G superba rhizome was extracted using 0.5% sodium dodecyl sulfate and digested with pepsin. The protein hydrolysates with molecular weight lesser than 3kDa were collected and subjected for cell viability assay. Then, the partial purification of the protein hydrolysate was performed using reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Fractions containing anticancer peptides were investigated, and their effects on apoptosis and protein expression using apoptosis test and Western blot, respectively.RESULTS: Partially purified peptides of G superba rhizome demonstrated anticolon activity in SW620 cells by inducing apoptosis through upregulation of p53 and downregulation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB).CONCLUSIONS: Consequently, G superba peptides showed high potential for further purification and development of anticolon therapeutics. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cercopithecus aethiops#Colchicaceae#Colonic Neoplasms#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Peptides#Plant Proteins#Rhizome#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Up-Regulation#Vero Cells'
b'BACKGROUND: Resveratrol, a kind of polyphenol, has the potential to activate the longevity gene in several cells, in the same manner as calorie restriction. We investigated the effect of resveratrol and \xcf\x89-3-line polyunsaturated fatty acid on surtuin 1 (SIRT1) gene expression in human monocytes (THP1) cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined the gene expression of THP1 cells using real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting analysis. Resveratol, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaeanoic acid (DHA) as n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid were added on THP1 cells. We observed the changes in the SIRT1 gene expression in those cells, under various doses of agents and in time courses. Then, we examined the interaction of glucose and mannitol on those agents\xd7\xb3 effect of the gene expression. The concentration range of glucose and mannitol was from 5-20mM, respectively.RESULTS: The SIRT1 gene expression could be defined in 24 and 48 hours both in real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis and in Western blotting. Resveratrol showed SIRT1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 0-20\xce\xbcM in both analyses. Although EPA at 10\xce\xbcM showed marked increase in SIRT1 gene expression compared to control condition in Western blotting, this phenomenon was not in dose-dependent manner. DHA did not exhibit any augmentation of SIRT1 gene expression in a dose-dependent manner in the range of 0-20\xce\xbcM in both analyses. We refined the dose-dependent inhibition of the SIRT1 gene expression within 20mM glucose medium. Although 20mM did not exhibit any inhibition, 10\xce\xbcM resveratrol induced the gene expression compared to control medium. Both 5 and 15mM mannitol medium did not significantly alter basic gene expression and 10\xce\xbcM resveratrol-induced gene expression.CONCLUSIONS: The present results suggest that resveratrol and EPA, but not DHA, markedly activated the SIRT1 gene expression in THP1 cells, and that high glucose medium could inhibit the basic gene expression, but not powerful resveratrol-induced gene expression, in those cells. labels: #Cell Line, Tumor#Docosahexaenoic Acids#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Eicosapentaenoic Acid#Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic#Glucose#Humans#Mannitol#Monocytes#Sirtuin 1#Stilbenes'
b'BACKGROUND: Major histocompatibility complex class I chain-related gene (MIC) polymorphisms have been associated with many autoimmune diseases. To explore the correlation between MIC polymorphisms and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we compared the sequence of the MIC gene in Han Chinese patients with SLE from Hainan Island, China, with healthy individuals.METHODS: In this study, the MIC polymorphisms in 296 subjects (159 patients with SLE and 137 healthy volunteers) of Han ethnicity from Hainan Island were characterized. A chi-square test was performed to evaluate the differences in the allelic frequency of the MIC genes between patients with SLE and the control subjects.RESULTS: The genotyping results indicated that the frequencies of the MICA*010, MICB*014, and MICB*002 alleles were significantly higher in the control subjects than the patients with SLE. Additionally, the results also indicated that the frequency of the MICB*009N in the SLE group was significantly increased compared to that in the matched control subjects.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggested that the MICB*009N allele might be a risk factor for SLE, whereas the MICB*014, MICA*010 and MICB*002 alleles were associated with reduced incidence of SLE in the study population. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Histocompatibility Antigens Class I#Humans#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Genetic'
b'PURPOSE: Masticatory muscle pain disorders respond well to conservative therapy; however, in some patients the pain becomes refractory. Botulinum toxin type A (BoT-A) therapy has been shown to be an effective modality in the management of refractory headache disorders. Conversely, there are conflicting reports in the literature regarding the efficacy, safety, and predictors of therapeutic response to BoT-A therapy for management of refractory masticatory muscle pain.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a retrospective chart review of patients who underwent at least 2 injection cycles of 100 U of BoT-A for refractory masticatory myalgia in the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, between May 2012 and June 2016. Information regarding demographic, diagnostic, and therapeutic characteristics was extracted and analyzed. The \xcf\x872test was used for analysis between independent and dependent variables. Forward step-wise-type logistic regression analysis was conducted to determine the predictors of outcome.RESULTS: Among 116 participants, 30.6% reported significant relief in pain for a mean period of 10.1\xc2\xa0weeks. A total of 16.4% of participants reported at least 1 adverse effect. The effectiveness of the\xc2\xa0BoT-A therapy was found to be statistically associated with the presence of muscle hypertrophy (P\xc2\xa0= .004), range of motion (P\xc2\xa0= .02), concurrent use of opioid analgesics (P\xc2\xa0= .003), and local anesthetic trigger-point injections (P\xc2\xa0= .003). Logistic regression analyses suggested that the presence of muscle hypertrophy and occurrence of adverse effects were predictors of positive outcome. On the contrary, concurrent use of opioid analgesics was found to be a predictor for no or minimal relief.CONCLUSIONS: BoT-A therapy provides significant relief for approximately one third of patients with refractory masticatory muscle pain. Therapy is associated with a mild risk of adverse effects. The presence of muscle hypertrophy, occurrence of an adverse effect, and concurrent use of opioid analgesics were found to be predictors of outcome response. labels: #Botulinum Toxins, Type A#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Male#Masticatory Muscles#Middle Aged#Myalgia#Neuromuscular Agents#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Sclerotherapy has been described as a treatment option for nonparasitic pediatric splenic cysts; however, there are limited data on its long-term effectiveness.METHODS: We performed a retrospective review and prospective follow-up imaging study of children treated for nonparasitic splenic cysts at our institution during 2006-2015. Included patients had International Classification of Disease, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis code 289.59 or 759.0 and underwent either sclerotherapy or a partial splenic operation (partial splenectomy, cyst excision, or marsupialization). Charts were reviewed for demographics, imaging, treatments, and complications. Identified patients were contacted and asked to return for splenic ultrasonography.RESULTS: Six surgical patients and 19 sclerotherapy patients were identified. Sclerotherapy patients underwent a median of four treatments with a decrease in the size of the cyst or complete ablation in 89.5% (17/19). Of the two patients who underwent unsuccessful sclerotherapy, one patient had sclerotherapy with sotradecol and ethanol for eight treatments, developed infection, and underwent total splenectomy. The other patient did not improve with sclerotherapy and underwent partial splenectomy. Nine patients (eight patients treated with sclerotherapy and one patient treated with partial splenectomy) were successfully contacted and underwent follow-up imaging at a median follow-up of 2.4\xc2\xa0y since last treatment. Of the eight patients treated with sclerotherapy, four patients remained cyst-free, three had small residual asymptomatic cysts stable in size, and one developed a recurrent small asymptomatic cyst; the patient treated with surgery had no recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: Sclerotherapy appears to be an effective and durable alternative treatment for children with splenic cysts. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Cysts#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Recurrence#Retrospective Studies#Sclerotherapy#Splenectomy#Splenic Diseases#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography'
b'BACKGROUND: Energy-based devices are used in nearly every laparoscopic operation. Radiofrequency energy can transfer to nearby instruments via antenna and capacitive coupling without direct contact. Previous studies have described inadvertent energy transfer through bundled cords and nonelectrically active wires. The purpose of this study was to describe a new mechanism of stray energy transfer from the monopolar instrument through the operating surgeon to the laparoscopic telescope and propose practical measures to decrease the risk of injury.METHODS: Radiofrequency energy was delivered to a laparoscopic L-hook (monopolar "bovie"), an advanced bipolar device, and an ultrasonic device in a laparoscopic simulator. The tip of a 10-mm telescope was placed adjacent but not touching bovine liver in a standard four-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy setup. Temperature increase was measured as tissue temperature from baseline nearest the tip of the telescope which was never in contact with the energy-based device after a 5-s open-air activation.RESULTS: The monopolar L-hook increased tissue temperature adjacent to the camera/telescope tip by 47\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08\xc2\xb0C from baseline (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). By having an assistant surgeon hold the camera/telescope (rather than one surgeon holding both the active electrode and the camera/telescope), temperature change was reduced to 26\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa07\xc2\xb0C (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Alternative energy devices significantly reduced temperature change in comparison to the monopolar instrument (47\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa08\xc2\xb0C) for both the advanced bipolar (1.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.5\xc2\xb0C; P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and ultrasonic (0.6\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.3\xc2\xb0C; P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) devices.CONCLUSIONS: Stray energy transfers from the monopolar "bovie" instrument through the operating surgeon to standard electrically inactive laparoscopic instruments. Hand-to-hand coupling describes a new form of capacitive coupling where the surgeon\'s body acts as an electrical conductor to transmit energy. Strategies to reduce stray energy transfer include avoiding the same surgeon holding the active electrode and laparoscopic camera or using alternative energy devices. labels: #Animals#Burns, Electric#Cattle#Electrosurgery#Energy Transfer#Hand#Humans#Laparoscopy#Liver#Occupational Injuries#Surgeons'
b'BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to assess the rate of 30-d hospital readmissions after ambulatory laparoscopic cholecystectomy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The 2009 to 2011 State Ambulatory Surgery and Services and State Inpatient Databases from California, Florida, and New York were analyzed to evaluate the incidence of 30-d readmissions after laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed in outpatient settings. Hospital transfers and the principal diagnoses of hospital readmission were analyzed as secondary outcomes. Multilevel generalized mixed linear regression analyses with fixed and random effects were used to evaluate variables associated with increased likelihood of readmissions.RESULTS: A total of 230,745 encounters for ambulatory laparoscopic cholecystectomies performed in 890 ambulatory facilities between 2009 and 2011 in the three states were analyzed. The rate of 30-d readmission was 20.2 per 1000 discharges. The rate of direct transfers from the ambulatory surgery center to an acute care hospital was 0.6 per 1000 discharges. The most common diagnoses of readmission were surgical complications, postoperative pain, infection, and nausea or vomiting. After adjusting for comorbidities, increasing age, male sex, non-Hispanic white race/ethnicity, any nonprivate insurance type, diagnosis of acute cholecystitis, use of intraoperative cholangiography, and having the procedure performed on a weekend were significantly associated with increased odds of 30-d readmissions.CONCLUSIONS: This large-state data analysis reveals that the unplanned admission and readmission rates after laparoscopic cholecystectomy are very low. Some causes of readmission (e.g., pain, nausea, and vomiting) are modifiable by the intervention of surgeons and anesthesia providers. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Ambulatory Surgical Procedures#Cholecystectomy, Laparoscopic#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The best operative strategy for necrotizing pancreatitis remains controversial. Traditional surgical necrosectomy is associated with significant morbidity; endoscopic and percutaneous strategies require repeated interventions with prolonged hospitalizations. We have developed a transgastric approach to pancreatic necrosectomy to overcome the shortcomings of the other techniques described.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with necrotizing pancreatitis treated from 2009 to 2016 at an academic center were retrospectively reviewed. Open or laparoscopic transgastric necrosectomy was performed if the area of necrosis was walled-off and in a retrogastric position on cross-sectional imaging. Study endpoints included postoperative complications and mortality.RESULTS: Forty-six patients underwent transgastric necrosectomy (nine open and 37 laparoscopic). Median (interquartile range) preoperative Acute Physiologic and Chronic Health Evaluation II score was 6 (3-12). Seventy percent of patients had>30% necrosis on preoperative imaging; infected necrosis was present in 35%. Median total length of stay (LOS) was 6 (3-12) d. No patient required a second operative debridement; four patients (9%) had short-term postoperative percutaneous drainage for residual fluid collections. Median follow-up was 1\xc2\xa0y; there were no fistula or wound complications. Six patients (13%) had postoperative bleeding; five patients received treatment by image-guided embolization. There was one death in the cohort.CONCLUSIONS: Transgastric pancreatic necrosectomy allows for effective debridement with a single definitive operation. When anatomically suitable, this operative strategy offers expedited recovery and avoids long-term morbidity associated with fistulas and prolonged drainage. labels: #Adult#Aged#Debridement#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreatectomy#Pancreatitis, Acute Necrotizing#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Stomach#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Computed tomography (CT) imaging has an established role in the initial evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma. What is less clear is the role of CT in guiding delayed exploration in patients initially managed nonoperatively after blunt trauma. We hypothesized that a repeat CT would accurately identify the need for an exploratory laparotomy in this patient population.MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 2005 to 2014, we reviewed all blunt abdominal trauma patients at our institution who received an admission CT scan. We identified patients who underwent repeat CT of the abdomen within 72\xc2\xa0h for the documented purpose of reevaluating potential intra-abdominal injuries. CT findings were categorized as either having a CT indication for exploration or not, allowing a sensitivity analysis.RESULTS: Of the 50 patients who met our inclusion criteria, 9 underwent surgical exploration of the abdomen and 41 did not. Admission clinical indicators such as Glasgow Coma Scale, Injury Severity Score, and vitals were similar between the operative and nonoperative groups (P\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa00.05). When compared with initial CT scan, repeat scan was found to increase the sensitivity from 67% to 100%, while also improving the specificity to 86%, positive predictive value to 50%, and negative predictive value to 100%.CONCLUSIONS: Repeat CT scan of the abdomen may be useful in evaluating blunt trauma patients initially managed nonoperatively. The second CT scan increases the sensitivity of CT evaluation to 100% while also improving the specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value. labels: #Abdominal Injuries#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Delayed Diagnosis#Female#Humans#Laparotomy#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Wounds, Nonpenetrating#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Rapidly resolving acute subdural hematomas (RRASDHs) have been described in case reports and case series but are still poorly understood. We hypothesized that a cohort analysis would confirm previously reported predictors of RRASDH including coagulopathy, additional intracranial hemorrhage, and low-density band on imaging. We also hypothesized that rapid resolution would be associated with improved trauma outcomes.METHODS: We reviewed all nonoperative acute subdural hematomas (ASDHs) treated at our center from 2011 to 2015. Inclusion criteria were ASDH on computed tomography (CT), admission Glasgow coma score>7, and repeat CT to evaluate ASDH change. RRASDH was defined as reduced hematoma thickness by 50% within 72\xc2\xa0h. Clinical data, CT findings, and trauma end points were analyzed for the RRASDH and nonresolving groups.RESULTS: There were 154 ASDH patients included, with 29 cases of RRASDH. The RRASDH group had a lower rate of comorbidities than the nonresolving group (58.6% versus 78.4%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03) and a lower rate of prehospital anticoagulation (7.7% versus 37.1%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.004). Previously reported predictors of RRASDH did not differ between the groups, nor did any clinical outcome measures. When compared with patients who experienced rapid growth (>50% increased width in 72\xc2\xa0h), the RRASDH group had lower mortality (3.4% versus 23.5%, P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.04).CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the largest review of RRASDHs. We identified two previously unrecognized factors that may predict resolution; however, previously reported predictors were not associated with resolution. We also found no relationship between RRASDHs and improved standard trauma outcomes, calling into question the clinical significance of RRASDH. labels: #Adult#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hematoma, Subdural, Acute#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Remission, Spontaneous#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'Metabolic health and positive symptom severity has been investigated in schizophrenia, but not in clinical high risk (CHR) patients. We hypothesized that greater body mass index (BMI) in CHR patients would be related to less positive symptoms. We examined this relationship in CHR patients being treated with 1) no psychotropic medications (n = 58), 2) an antipsychotic (n = 14), or 3) an antidepressant without an antipsychotic (n = 10). We found no relationship between BMI and positive symptoms in unmedicated CHR patients, the majority of whom had a narrow BMI range between 20 and 30. However, in the smaller sample of CHR patients taking an antidepressant or antipsychotic, BMI was negatively correlated with positive symptoms. Although potentially underpowered, these preliminary findings provide initial steps in elucidating the relationships between metabolic health, neurochemistry, and symptom severity in CHR patients. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Antidepressive Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Body Mass Index#Female#Humans#Male#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales#Psychotic Disorders#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Young Adult'
b'Self-harm refers to the purposeful destruction of bodily tissue without suicidal intention and for purposes that are not socially sanctioned. Little is known about the associations between a history of self-harm, mood symptoms, and functioning in adults with different types of mood disorders. Lifetime histories of self-harm, current mood symptoms, global functioning, and affective traits were collected on 142 adults with mood disorders. The prevalence of lifetime self-harm was higher in patients with bipolar disorder compared with patients with a unipolar depressive disorder. Self-harm was also more strongly linked to impulsivity in individuals with bipolar disorder compared with unipolar depressive disorder. Across both diagnoses, histories of self-harm were related to lower levels of current global functioning, more severe depressive symptoms, and high self-reported emotional dysregulation and neuroticism. Findings indicate that self-harm is a potent prognostic variable for symptoms, global functioning, and personality functioning in individuals with mood disorders. labels: #Adult#Affect#Bipolar Disorder#Depressive Disorder#Female#Humans#Impulsive Behavior#Male#Personality Assessment#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales#Psychological Tests#Self-Injurious Behavior#Severity of Illness Index#Social Adjustment'
b'BACKGROUND: Hantavirus, the hemorrhagic causative agent of two clinical diseases, is found worldwide with variation in severity, incidence and mortality. The most lethal hantaviruses are found on the American continent where the most prevalent viruses like Andes virus and Sin Nombre virus are known to cause hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. New World hantavirus infection of immunocompetent hamsters results in an asymptomatic infection except for Andes virus and Maporal virus; the only hantaviruses causing a lethal disease in immunocompetent Syrian hamsters mimicking hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in humans.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Hamsters, immunosuppressed with dexamethasone and cyclophosphamide, were infected intramuscularly with different New World hantavirus strains (Bayou virus, Black Creek Canal virus, Ca\xc3\xb1o Delgadito virus, Choclo virus, Laguna Negra virus, and Maporal virus). In the present study, we show that immunosuppression of hamsters followed by infection with a New World hantavirus results in an acute disease that precisely mimics both hantavirus disease in humans and Andes virus infection of hamsters.CONCLUSIONS/ SIGNIFICANCE: Infected hamsters showed specific clinical signs of disease and moreover, histological analysis of lung tissue showed signs of pulmonary edema and inflammation within alveolar septa. In this study, we were able to infect immunosuppressed hamsters with different New World hantaviruses reaching a lethal outcome with signs of disease mimicking human disease. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Cricetinae#Cyclophosphamide#Dexamethasone#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Hantavirus#Hantavirus Infections#Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Immunosuppression#Immunosuppressive Agents#Lung#Mesocricetus#Survival Analysis'
b"This is the first integrated study of the effects on gastric secretion, inflammation and fundic mucins after infection with L3 T. circumcincta and in the very early period following transplantation of adult worms. At 3 months-of-age, 20 Coopworth lambs were infected intraruminally with 35,000 L3; infected animals were killed on Days 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 post-infection and 6 controls on either Day 0 or 30 post-infection. Another 15 Romney cross lambs received 10,000 adult worms at 4-5 months-of-age though surgically-implanted abomasal cannulae and were killed after 6, 12, 24 and 72 hours; uninfected controls were also killed at 72 hours. Blood was collected at regular intervals from all animals for measurement of serum gastrin and pepsinogen and abomasal fluid for pH measurement from cannulated sheep. Tissues collected at necropsy were fixed in Bouin's fluid for light microscopy, immunocytochemistry and mucin staining and in Karnovsky's fluid for electron microscopy. Nodules around glands containing developing larvae were seen on Day 5 p.i., but generalised effects on secretion occurred only after parasite emergence and within hours after transplantation of adult worms. After L3 infection, there were maximum worm burdens on Days 10-15 post-infection, together with peak tissue eosinophilia, inhibition of gastric acid secretion, hypergastrinaemia, hyperpepsinogenaemia, loss of parietal cells, enlarged gastric pits containing less mucin and increased numbers of mucous neck cells. After adult transplantation, serum pepsinogen was significantly increased after 9 hours and serum gastrin after 18 hours. Parallel changes in host tissues and the numbers of parasites in the abomasal lumen suggest that luminal parasites, but not those in the tissues, are key drivers of the pathophysiology and inflammatory response in animals exposed to parasites for the first time. These results are consistent with initiation of the host response by parasite chemicals diffusing across the surface epithelium, possibly aided by components of ES products which increased permeability. Parietal cells appear to be a key target, resulting in secondary increases in serum gastrin, pit elongation, loss of surface mucins and inhibition of chief cell maturation. Inflammation occurs in parallel, and could either cause the pathology or exacerbate the direct effects of ES products. labels: #Animals#Gastric Mucins#Gastrins#Larva#Pepsinogen A#Sheep#Sheep Diseases#Stomach Diseases#Stomach, Ruminant#Trichostrongyloidea#Trichostrongyloidiasis"
b'The new-shoot-growing stage is an important period of apple tree nutrition distribution. The objective of this study is to provide technical support for apple tree nutrition diagnosis by constructing quantitative evaluation models between the apple leaf nitrogen content during the new-shoot-growing stage and characteristic spectral parameters. The correlation coefficients between the original spectral data and the nitrogen content were calculated. Then, the sensitive bands of the nitrogen content were selected using the theory of two-dimensional (2D) correlation spectroscopy. Finally, partial least squares regression (PLSR) and support vector machine (SVM) evaluation models were established using 2 parameters: Rx (maximum spectral reflectivity in the waveband) and Sx (total spectral reflectivity in the waveband). The results showed that the sensitive bands in the 2D correlation synchronous and asynchronous spectrograms were 537-560 nm and 708-719 nm. The PLSR model can be used to estimate the nitrogen content. Compared with PLSR, SVM provided better modeling and testing results, with a larger coefficient of determination (R2) and a smaller root-mean-square error (RMSE). The SVM model based on Sx was a good backup method. The calibration R2 of the model was 0.821, its RMSE was 0.710 g\xc2\xb7kg-1, the validation R2 was 0.768, and its RMSE was 1.019 g\xc2\xb7kg-1. The SVM model based on 2D correlation spectroscopy can be used to quantitatively estimate the nitrogen content in apple leaves. labels: #Biobehavioral Sciences#Malus#Nitrogen#Plant Leaves#Plant Shoots#Spectrum Analysis'
b'PURPOSE: To analyze the effect of birth weight on ocular morphology, refraction and visual function in early adolescents aged 12-15 years.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We conducted a secondary data analysis using the public use files from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey of the period from 1999 to 2008. Study participants aged 12 to 15 years were included with data on birth weight and ophthalmic parameters including presenting distance visual acuity, objective refraction and keratometry. Visual acuity, sphere, astigmatism in power vectors J0 and J45, corneal power and corneal astigmatism were evaluated for an association with birth weight. Linear and logistic regression with adjustment for age, sex, ethnicity, survey cycle and birth weight as independent variable were calculated.RESULTS: Linear regression analysis revealed an association between corneal power and birth weight (per 100g: beta = -0.04, p<0.001) in the univariate analysis, and in the model adjusted for age, sex, ethnicity and NHANES survey cycle (per 100g: beta = -0.04, p<0.001). A lower birth weight was associated with higher corneal power. We found no evidence for an association of visual acuity, sphere, spherical equivalent, J0-vector and J45-vector of astigmatism, corneal J0- or corneal J45-vector with birth weight.CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that low BW is linked to alterations in keratometric power even in early adolescents aged 12-15 years whereas visual acuity and refractive error showed no association. labels: #Adolescent#Age Factors#Astigmatism#Birth Weight#Child#Child, Preschool#Cornea#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Refraction, Ocular#Sex Factors#United States#Vision, Ocular'
b'Cellular permissiveness to HIV infection is highly heterogeneous across individuals. Heterogeneity is also found across CD4+ T cells from the same individual, where only a fraction of cells gets infected. To explore the basis of permissiveness, we performed single-cell RNA-seq analysis of non-infected CD4+ T cells from high and low permissive individuals. Transcriptional heterogeneity translated in a continuum of cell states, driven by T-cell receptor-mediated cell activation and was strongly linked to permissiveness. Proteins expressed at the cell surface and displaying the highest correlation with T cell activation were tested as biomarkers of cellular permissiveness to HIV. FACS sorting using antibodies against several biomarkers of permissiveness led to an increase of HIV cellular infection rates. Top candidate biomarkers included CD25, a canonical activation marker. The combination of CD25 high expression with other candidate biomarkers led to the identification of CD298, CD63 and CD317 as the best biomarkers for permissiveness. CD25highCD298highCD63highCD317high cell population showed an enrichment of HIV-infection of up to 28 fold as compared to the unsorted cell population. The purified hyper-permissive cell subpopulation was characterized by a downregulation of interferon-induced genes and several known restriction factors. Single-cell RNA-seq analysis coupled with functional characterization of cell biomarkers provides signatures of the "HIV-permissive cell". labels: #CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cells, Cultured#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Single-Cell Analysis#Virus Replication'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Liver steatosis has shown to be associated with coronary artery disease (CAD). The aim of our study was to evaluate the association between the presence and severity of CAD and Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) assessed by transient elastography (TE) and controlled attenuation parameter (CAP).METHODS: 576 Patients undergoing coronary angiography were enrolled in this prospective study, receiving at least 10 TE and CAP measurements using the FibroScan\xc2\xae M-probe. Clinically relevant CAD (CAD 3) was defined as stenosis with \xe2\x89\xa575% reduction of the luminal diameter. NAFLD was determined by CAP \xe2\x89\xa5234 dB/m. NAFLD with advanced fibrosiswas determined by TE-values \xe2\x89\xa57.9kPa in the presence of NAFLD and absence of congestive or right-sided heart failure. Rates and 95% confidence intervals are shown.RESULTS: 505 patients were available for analysis of NAFLD. However, only 392 patients were available for analysis of NAFLD with advanced fibrosis, since 24 patients had to be excluded due to non valid TE-measurements and 89 patients due to congestive or right-sided heart failure or suspected concomitant liver disease, respectively. 70.5% (66.3%-74.4%) of patients had CAD 3, 71.5% (67.3%-75.4%) were diagnosed with NAFLD, and 11.2% (8.3%-14.8%) with NAFLD with advanced fibrosis. Patients with CAD 3 had higher median CAP-values (273\xc2\xb161 vs. 260\xc2\xb166 dB/m; p = 0.038) and higher degrees of steatosis as compared to patients without CAD 3. While NAFLD was significantly more often diagnosed in patients with CAD 3 (75.0% vs. 63.1%, p = 0.0068), no significant difference was found for NAFLD with advanced fibrosis (10.7% vs. 12.5%, p = 0.60).CONCLUSIONS: Clinically relevant CAD is frequently associated with the presence of NAFLD, but not NAFLD with advanced fibrosis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Humans#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Prospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index'
b'INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to determine the effect of combining positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy and mandibular advancement device (MAD) in patients with severe obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) who were pressure intolerant for PAP and were unresponsive to MAD.METHODS: This retrospective study reviewed the medical records of severe OSA patients with apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) \xe2\x89\xa5 30/hr who were diagnosed between October 1, 2008 and June 30, 2014. Patients were initially treated with 2 weeks of PAP, and those who were intolerant to high-pressure PAP (\xe2\x89\xa515 cm H2O) were switched to 12 weeks of MAD, which is a monobloc designed at 75% of maximum protrusion. Patients who had high residual AHI (\xe2\x89\xa515/hr) on MAD underwent 12 weeks of combination therapy (CT) with MAD and CPAP and were enrolled in the present study. Enrolled subjects who completed the 12-week CT were followed-up until June 30, 2016.RESULTS: A total of 14 male patients were included. All three treatments effectively reduced AHI, oxygen desaturation index (ODI), and total sleep time with SpO2<90% (% TST-SpO2<90%) compared to pretreatment values. The residual AHI and ODI on CT was lower than that on MAD or PAP. The residual % TST-SpO2<90% was lower than that on MAD and similar to that on PAP. The therapeutic pressure on CT was on average 9.2 cm H2O lower than that on PAP. For the 11 patients who completed CT, only CT reduced ESS compared to pretreatment value. No treatment had significant impact on % slow wave sleep or overnight change of blood pressure. For patients who completed CT, the average usage was 5.9\xc2\xb11.7 hr/night at 12th week and 6.4\xc2\xb11.5 hr/night at a median follow-up of 36.5-months.CONCLUSIONS: Combining MAD and CPAP showed additive effects on reducing AHI and ODI, and lowered the therapeutic pressures. labels: #Blood Pressure#Combined Modality Therapy#Continuous Positive Airway Pressure#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Mandibular Advancement#Middle Aged#Patient Compliance#Retrospective Studies#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Failure'
b"Human pegivirus (HPgV) protects HIV+ people from HIV-associated disease, but the mechanism of this protective effect remains poorly understood. We sequentially infected cynomolgus macaques with simian pegivirus (SPgV) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) to model HIV+HPgV co-infection. SPgV had no effect on acute-phase SIV pathogenesis-as measured by SIV viral load, CD4+ T cell destruction, immune activation, or adaptive immune responses-suggesting that HPgV's protective effect is exerted primarily during the chronic phase of HIV infection. We also examined the immune response to SPgV in unprecedented detail, and found that this virus elicits virtually no activation of the immune system despite persistently high titers in the blood over long periods of time. Overall, this study expands our understanding of the pegiviruses-an understudied group of viruses with a high prevalence in the global human population-and suggests that the protective effect observed in HIV+HPgV co-infected people occurs primarily during the chronic phase of HIV infection. labels: #Animals#Coinfection#Disease Models, Animal#Flaviviridae Infections#GB virus C#Macaca fascicularis#Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome#Simian Immunodeficiency Virus"
b'BACKGROUND: We assessed whether a short training, effective in a high resource country, was able to improve the quality of face-mask ventilation (FMV) in a low resource setting.METHODS: Local healthcare providers at the Centre M\xc3\xa9dico-Social, Kouv\xc3\xa8, Togo were asked to ventilate a neonatal leak-free manikin before (time-t1) and after (t2) a two-minute training session. Immediately after this section, a further two-minute training with participants aware of the data monitor was offered. Finally, a third 1-minute FMV round (t3) was performed by each participant. Ventilatory parameters were recorded using a computerized system. Primary outcome was the percentage of breaths with relevant mask leak (>25%). Secondary outcomes were percentages of breaths with a low peak inspiratory pressure (PIP<20 cm H2O), within the recommended PIP (20-35 cm H2O) and with a high PIP (>35 cm H2O).RESULTS: Twenty-six subjects participated in the study. The percentage of relevant mask leak significantly decreased (p<0.0001; \xce\xb2 = -0.76, SE = 0.10) from 89.7% (SD 21.5%) at t1 to 45.4% (SD 27.2%) at t2 and to 18.3% (SD 20.1%) at t3. The percentage of breaths within the recommended PIP significantly increased (p<0.0001; \xce\xb2 = +0.54, SE = 0.12). The percentage of breaths with PIP>35 cm H2O was 19.5% (SD 32.8%) at t1 and 39.2% (SD 37.7%) at t2 (padj = 0.27; \xce\xb2 = +0.61, SE = 0.36) and significantly decreased (padj = 0.01; \xce\xb2 = -1.61, SE = 0.55) to 6.0% (SD 15.4%) at t3.CONCLUSIONS: A 2-minute training on FMV, effective in a high resource country, had a positive effect also in a low resource setting. FMV performance further improved after an extra 2-minute verbal recall plus real time feedback. Although the training was extended, it still does not cost much time and effort. Further studies are needed to establish if these basic skills are transferred in real patients and if they are maintained over time. labels: #Adult#Education, Medical, Continuing#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Personnel, Hospital#Respiration, Artificial#Togo'
b'Fusarium fujikuroi causes bakanae ("foolish seedling") disease of rice which is characterized by hyper-elongation of seedlings resulting from production of gibberellic acids (GAs) by the fungus. This plant pathogen is also known for production of harmful mycotoxins, such as fusarins, fusaric acid, apicidin F and beauvericin. Recently, we generated the first de novo genome sequence of F. fujikuroi strain IMI 58289 combined with extensive transcriptional, epigenetic, proteomic and chemical product analyses. GA production was shown to provide a selective advantage during infection of the preferred host plant rice. Here, we provide genome sequences of eight additional F. fujikuroi isolates from distant geographic regions. The isolates differ in the size of chromosomes, most likely due to variability of subtelomeric regions, the type of asexual spores (microconidia and/or macroconidia), and the number and expression of secondary metabolite gene clusters. Whilst most of the isolates caused the typical bakanae symptoms, one isolate, B14, caused stunting and early withering of infected seedlings. In contrast to the other isolates, B14 produced no GAs but high amounts of fumonisins during infection on rice. Furthermore, it differed from the other isolates by the presence of three additional polyketide synthase (PKS) genes (PKS40, PKS43, PKS51) and the absence of the F. fujikuroi-specific apicidin F (NRPS31) gene cluster. Analysis of additional field isolates confirmed the strong correlation between the pathotype (bakanae or stunting/withering), and the ability to produce either GAs or fumonisins. Deletion of the fumonisin and fusaric acid-specific PKS genes in B14 reduced the stunting/withering symptoms, whereas deletion of the PKS51 gene resulted in elevated symptom development. Phylogenetic analyses revealed two subclades of F. fujikuroi strains according to their pathotype and secondary metabolite profiles. labels: #Fungal Proteins#Fusariosis#Fusarium#Genes, Fungal#Oryza#Phylogeny#Plant Diseases#Virulence'
b'Alpha herpesvirus genomes encode the capacity to establish quiescent infections (i.e. latency) in the peripheral nervous system for the life of their hosts. Multiple times during latency, viral genomes can reactivate to start a productive infection, enabling spread of progeny virions to other hosts. Replication of alpha herpesviruses is well studied in cultured cells and many aspects of productive replication have been identified. However, many questions remain concerning how a productive or a quiescent infection is established. While infections in vivo often result in latency, infections of dissociated neuronal cultures in vitro result in a productive infection unless lytic viral replication is suppressed by DNA polymerase inhibitors or interferon. Using primary peripheral nervous system neurons cultured in modified Campenot tri-chambers, we previously reported that reactivateable, quiescent infections by pseudorabies virus (PRV) can be established in the absence of any inhibitor. Such infections were established in cell bodies only when physically isolated axons were infected at a very low multiplicity of infection (MOI). In this report, we developed a complementation assay in compartmented neuronal cultures to investigate host and viral factors in cell bodies that prevent establishment of quiescent infection and promote productive replication of axonally delivered genomes (i.e. escape from silencing). Stimulating protein kinase A (PKA) signaling pathways in isolated cell bodies, or superinfecting cell bodies with either UV-inactivated PRV or viral light particles (LP) promoted escape from genome silencing and prevented establishment of quiescent infection but with different molecular mechanisms. Activation of PKA in cell bodies triggers a slow escape from silencing in a cJun N-terminal kinase (JNK) dependent manner. However, escape from silencing is induced rapidly by infection with UVPRV or LP in a PKA- and JNK-independent manner. We suggest that viral tegument proteins delivered to cell bodies engage multiple signaling pathways that block silencing of viral genomes delivered by low MOI axonal infection. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Gene Expression Regulation, Viral#Gene Silencing#Genome, Viral#Herpesvirus 1, Human#Herpesvirus 1, Suid#Neurons#Swine#Viral Proteins#Virus Latency#Virus Replication'
b'This study compared the effects of two levels of performance stabilization on the adaptation to unpredictable perturbations in an isometric control force task with the goal of controlling 40% of the maximum force. The experiment consisted of pre-exposure and exposure phases. In the pre-exposure two levels of performance stabilization were manipulated: a stabilization group (SG) performed three trials in a row while maintaining 40% of the maximum force for three seconds and an absolute error less than or equal to 5% (i.e., the criteria of performance), and a superstabilization group (SSG) performed six blocks of the same criteria. During the exposure phase, the task was the same as that in the pre-exposure phase; however, it was inserted 9 trials of perturbations when the task goal changed to 60% of the maximum force. We measured the %RMSE, RMS from the biceps and triceps brachii and co-contraction. In the pre-exposure phase, both groups showed similar performance and muscle activity. When exposed to the perturbations, SSG performance more quickly returned to the previous level of accuracy, showed lower muscle activation and demonstrated a greater muscle co-contraction than did SG. The results give support to the adaptive process model on motor learning. labels: #Adult#Electromyography#Humans#Isometric Contraction#Male#Motor Skills#Muscle, Skeletal#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Intramuscular fat (IMF) is known to enhance beef palatability and can be markedly increased by castration. However, there is little understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying the IMF deposition after castration of beef cattle. We hypothesize that genetic regulators function differently in IMF from bulls and steers. Therefore, after detecting serum testosterone and lipid parameter, as well as the contents of IMF at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, we have investigated differentially expressed (DE) microRNAs (miRNAs) and mRNAs in IMF of bulls and steers at 24 months of age in Qinchuan cattle using next-generation sequencing, and then explored the possible biopathways regulating IMF deposition. Serum testosterone levels were significantly decreased in steers, whereas IMF content, serum total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglycerides (TGs) were markedly increased in steers. Comparing the results of steers and bulls, 580 upregulated genes and 1,120 downregulated genes in IMF tissues were identified as DE genes correlated with IMF deposition. The upregulated genes were mainly associated with lipid metabolism, lipogenesis and fatty acid transportation signalling pathways, and the downregulated genes were correlated with immune response and intracellular signal transduction. Concurrently, the DE miRNAs-important players in adipose tissue accumulation induced by castration-were also examined in IMF tissues; 52 DE miRNAs were identified. The expression profiles of selected genes and miRNAs were also confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) assays. Using integrated analysis, we constructed the microRNA-target regulatory network which was supported by target validation using the dual luciferase reporter system. Moreover, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software was used to construct a molecular interaction network that could be involved in regulating IMF after castration. The detected molecular network is closely associated with lipid metabolism and adipocyte differentiation, which is supported by functional identification results of bta-let-7i on bovine preadipocytes. These results provided valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of the IMF phenotype differences between steers and bulls. labels: #Adipose Tissue#Animals#Cattle#China#Cholesterol#Male#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#RNA, Messenger#Testosterone#Transcriptome#Triglycerides'
b'The influence of thrombosis on the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after liver transplantation (LT) and the role of the commonest inherited thrombophilia abnormalities factor V Leiden and prothrombin G20210A in the development of thrombosis are unknown. We investigated a cohort of patients who underwent LT for HCC with the aim to estimate the incidence rate (IR) of thrombosis, its influence on mortality and re-transplantation rates and, in the frame of a nested case-control study, the role of thrombophilia in donors and recipients for the development of thrombosis. Four-hundred and thirty patients underwent LT and were followed for a median of 7.2 years. Twenty-six recipients (6%) developed thrombosis (IR 1.06 [95%CI: 0.71-1.53] per 100 pts-yr). Mortality rate after LT was 3.95 (95%CI: 3.22-4.79) per 100 pts-yr and was not influenced by thrombosis. Re-transplantation was planned for 33 patients and was more common in patients with thrombosis than in those without (HR 2.50 [95%CI: 0.87-7.17]). The risk of thrombosis was 4 times higher in recipients with thrombophilia than in those without (OR 4.23 [95%CI: 0.99-18.04]) and 6 times higher when the analysis was restricted to venous thrombosis (OR 6.26 [95%CI: 1.19-32.85]). The presence of inherited thrombophilia in the donors did not increase the risk of thrombosis of the recipient. In conclusion, thrombosis is a complication of 6% of patients transplanted for HCC and increases the risk of re-transplantation but not of mortality. The risk of thrombosis, particularly venous, is increased in the presence of thrombophilia abnormalities in the recipients. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Survival Rate#Thrombophilia#Thrombosis'
b'Pathogenic or non-pathogenic small (17 to 30 nt) and long (>200 nt) non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) have been implicated in the regulation of gene expression at transcriptional, post-transcriptional and epigenetic level by interacting with host proteins. However, lack of suitable experimental system precludes the identification and evaluation of the functional significance of host proteins interacting with ncRNAs. In this study, we present a first report on the application of riboproteomics to identify host proteins interacting with small, highly pathogenic, noncoding satellite RNA (sat-RNA) associated with Cucumber mosaic virus, the helper virus (HV). RNA affinity beads containing sat-RNA transcripts of (+) or (-)-sense covalently coupled to cyanogen bromide activated sepharose beads were incubated with total protein extracts from either healthy or HV-infected Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. RNA-protein complexes bound to the beads were eluted and subjected to MudPIT analysis. Bioinformatics programs PANTHER classification and WoLF-PSORT were used to further classify the identified host proteins in each case based on their functionality and subcellular distribution. Finally, we observed that the host protein network interacting with plus and minus-strand transcripts of sat-RNA, in the presence or absence of HV is distinct, and the global interactome of host proteins interacting with satRNA in either of the orientations is very different. labels: #Cucumovirus#Helper Viruses#Plant Proteins#Proteomics#RNA, Untranslated#RNA, Viral#Tobacco'
b"5'-Phosphodiesterase (5'-PDE) catalyzes the hydrolysis of ribonucleic acid to obtain a mixture of ribonucleotides, such as 5'-guanosine monophosphate and 5'-adenosine monophosphate. In this study, a 5'-PDE was newly isolated and purified from Aspergillus fumigatus. Following purification, this enzyme exhibited a specific activity of 1036.76 U/mg protein, a molecular weight of 9.5 kDa, and an optimal temperature and pH for enzyme activity of 60\xc2\xb0C and 5.0, respectively. However, its activity was partially inhibited by Fe3+, Cu2+, and Zn2+, but slightly improved by the presence of K+ and Na+. Additionally, chemical-modification experiments were also applied to investigate the structural information of 5'-PDE, in which the residues containing carboxyl and imidazole groups were essential for enzyme activity based on their localization in the 5'-PDE active site. Furthermore, purified 5'-PDE could specifically catalyze the synthesis of ribonucleotides with a Vmax 0.71 mmol/mg\xc2\xb7min and a KM of 13.60 mg/mL. labels: #Aspergillus fumigatus#Catalysis#Hydrolysis#Molecular Weight#Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases#Protein Conformation"
b'Pea (Pisum sativum L.) is the oldest model object of plant genetics and one of the most agriculturally important legumes in the world. Since the pea genome has not been sequenced yet, identification of genes responsible for mutant phenotypes or desirable agricultural traits is usually performed via genetic mapping followed by candidate gene search. Such mapping is best carried out using gene-based molecular markers, as it opens the possibility for exploiting genome synteny between pea and its close relative Medicago truncatula Gaertn., possessing sequenced and annotated genome. In the last 5 years, a large number of pea gene-based molecular markers have been designed and mapped owing to the rapid evolution of "next-generation sequencing" technologies. However, the access to the complete set of markers designed worldwide is limited because the data are not uniformed and therefore hard to use. The Pea Marker Database was designed to combine the information about pea markers in a form of user-friendly and practical online tool. Version 1 (PMD1) comprises information about 2484 genic markers, including their locations in linkage groups, the sequences of corresponding pea transcripts and the names of related genes in M. truncatula. Version 2 (PMD2) is an updated version comprising 15944 pea markers in the same format with several advanced features. To test the performance of the PMD, fine mapping of pea symbiotic genes Sym13 and Sym27 in linkage groups VII and V, respectively, was carried out. The results of mapping allowed us to propose the Sen1 gene (a homologue of SEN1 gene of Lotus japonicus (Regel) K. Larsen) as the best candidate gene for Sym13, and to narrow the list of possible candidate genes for Sym27 to ten, thus proving PMD to be useful for pea gene mapping and cloning. All information contained in PMD1 and PMD2 is available at www.peamarker.arriam.ru. labels: #Databases, Genetic#Genetic Linkage#Genetic Markers#Genome, Plant#Internet#Loteae#Medicago truncatula#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Peas#Software'
b"AIM: To investigate how quality and patient safety domains are being taught in the pre-registration curricula of health profession education programmes in New Zealand.METHODS: All tertiary institutions providing training for medicine, nursing, midwifery, dentistry, pharmacy, physiotherapy, dietetics and 11 other allied health professions in New Zealand were contacted and a person with relevant curriculum knowledge was invited to participate. Interviews were conducted using a semi-structured interview guide to explore nine quality and safety domains; improvement science, patient safety, quality and safety culture, evidence-based practice, patient-centred care, teamwork and communication, leadership for change, systems thinking and use of information technology (IT). Transcribed data were extracted and categorised by discipline and domain. Two researchers independently identified and categorised themes within each domain, using a general inductive approach.RESULTS: Forty-nine institutions were contacted and 43 (88%) people were interviewed. The inclusion and extent of quality and safety teaching was variable. Evidence-based practice, patient-centred care and teamwork and communication were the strongest domains and well embedded in programmes, while leadership, systems thinking and the role of IT were less explicitly included. Except for two institutions, improvement science was absent from pre-registration curricula. Patient safety teaching was focused mainly around incident reporting, and to a lesser extent learning from adverse events. Although a 'no blame' culture was articulated as important, the theme of individual accountability was still apparent. While participants agreed that all domains were important, the main barriers to incorporating improvement science and patient safety concepts into existing programmes included an 'already stretched curriculum' and having faculty with limited expertise in these areas.CONCLUSIONS: Although the building blocks for improving the quality and safety of healthcare are present, this national study of multiple health professional pre-registration education programmes has identified teaching gaps in patient safety and improvement science methods and tools. Failure to address these gaps will compromise the ability of new graduates to successfully implement and sustain improvements. labels: #Communication#Curriculum#Evidence-Based Practice#Health Personnel#Humans#Leadership#Medical Informatics#New Zealand#Organizational Culture#Patient Care Team#Patient Safety#Patient-Centered Care#Qualitative Research#Quality Improvement#Systems Analysis"
b'AIM: To determine the outcome of patients waitlisted for hip and knee replacement surgery who were returned to GP due to resource constraints.METHODS: Prospectively gathered data of all patients returned to GP was analysed, including demographics, clinical prioritisation scores and patient-reported scores. Subsequent outcome was collected from departmental records and the National Joint Registry.RESULTS: Between November 2013 and December 2015, 374 patients were returned to GP care. At minimum 12-month follow-up, 215 (57.5%) had undergone or had certainty for surgery, 36 patients (9.6%) had been re-referred and again declined surgery and 123 (32.9%) remained in GP care. The factors influencing the likelihood of a patient subsequently qualifying for surgery were need for hip rather than knee replacement, time from initial FSA and initial NZOA score. The mean waiting time for those patients who underwent publicly-funded surgery was 14.7 months.CONCLUSION: Returning patients to GP delays treatment rather than reducing the need for surgery. This delay results in waste, added costs to the patient, healthcare system and society, and may reduce the benefit of surgery. There needs to be a significant increase in capacity to meet this demand. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Female#General Practice#Humans#Male#New Zealand#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Public Sector#Referral and Consultation#Waiting Lists'
b'AIMS: New Zealand follows the guideline that only patients with projected five-year survival of 80% are listed for deceased donor kidney transplantation. An algorithm derived from US data estimates survival after transplantation, however, this may not be as applicable to the New Zealand population. We review use of the US derived algorithm in New Zealand. We assessed accuracy of scores calculated by referring units and audited whether the system is applied in New Zealand.METHODS: Data on 422 patients assessed for transplantation was entered into the algorithm to calculate a projected survival score. Scores were generated by an independent investigator and compared with those calculated by local units. Scores and demographics of listed and not-listed patients were also compared.RESULTS: Three hundred and twenty-five of 420 (77%) patients assessed were accepted onto the New Zealand transplant list. Mean estimated five-year survival in listed patients was 89.4% compared to 79.8% in those not accepted (p<0.0001). Listed patients were younger and less likely to have coronary artery disease (CAD). There was no significant difference in scores calculated by the independent assessor and referring centres (p=0.185).CONCLUSION: The algorithm is universally and accurately used. Future studies are required to determine the validity of the system in New Zealand patients. labels: #Algorithms#Cadaver#Eligibility Determination#Female#Humans#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Medical Audit#Middle Aged#New Zealand#Risk Assessment#Tissue Donors'
b'AIMS: New Zealand has one of the highest rates of breast cancer incidence in the world. We investigated the gene expression profiles of breast tumours from New Zealand patients, compared them to gene expression profiles of international breast cancer cohorts and identified any associations between altered gene expression and the clinicopathological features of the tumours.METHODS: Affymetrix microarrays were used to measure the gene expression profiles of 106 breast tumours from New Zealand patients. Gene expression data from six international breast cancer cohorts were collated, and all the gene expression data were analysed using standard bioinformatic and statistical tools.RESULTS: Gene expression profiles associated with tumour ER and ERBB2 status, molecular subtype and selected gene expression signatures within the New Zealand cohort were consistent with those found in international cohorts. Significant differences in clinicopathological features such as tumour grade, tumour size and lymph node status were also observed between the New Zealand and international cohorts.CONCLUSIONS: Gene expression profiles, which are a sensitive indicator of tumour biology, showed no clear difference between breast tumours from New Zealand patients and those from non-New Zealand patients. This suggests that other factors may contribute to the high and increasing breast cancer incidence in New Zealand compared to international populations. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Breast Neoplasms#Female#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Incidence#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#New Zealand#RNA, Messenger#Receptors, Estrogen#Tissue Array Analysis'
b'AIMS: To determine whether or not cardiomegaly identified on chest radiograph (CXR) is indicative of true cardiomegaly as determined using echocardiography (echo) as the gold standard tool, and therefore whether or not cardiomegaly on CXR should be investigated further.METHODS: CXR and echocardiogram reports were reviewed for the presence of cardiomegaly in a population following non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). Data was evaluated to determine whether cardiomegaly reported on CXR did indeed represent true cardiomegaly. Exploratory analysis was undertaken to determine whether or not Body Surface Area (BSA) was a significant explanatory variable.RESULTS: Data was collected for 244 patients. Thirty-nine were reported to have cardiomegaly on CXR, 22 of those also had cardiomegaly on echo, giving a true positive rate of 56% and a false positive rate of 44%. Fifty-five were reported to have cardiomegaly on echo, of which 33 (60%) did not have cardiomegaly identified on CXR. Sensitivity of CXR to identify cardiomegaly was 40% and specificity was 91% with a positive predictive value of 56% and negative predictive value of 84%. BSA does not appear to be a significant explanatory variable for the discrepancy between the CXR and echo estimates of cardiomegaly.CONCLUSIONS: In patients following an NSTEMI, the true positive rate of cardiomegaly identified on CXR is not too dissimilar to the false positive rate, thereby suggesting that reporting "cardiomegaly" based on CXR findings is inaccurate and rather reporting should simply focus on the cardiothoracic ratio and defining this as an enlarged cardiac silhouette rather than true cardiomegaly. In clinical practice the data indicates that the number needed to investigate to identify true cardiomegaly on echo is only two, thereby concluding that all patients post-NSTEMI with cardiomegaly on CXR should go on to have an echo, consistent with current national guidelines. As the study population were all post-MI, further study is necessary to evaluate whether this association holds true in a wider population. labels: #Aged#Cardiomegaly#Cross-Sectional Studies#Echocardiography#Female#Humans#Male#Non-ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction#Radiography, Thoracic'
b'Demand for health data for secondary research is increasing, both in New Zealand and worldwide. The New Zealand government has established a large research database, the Integrated Data Infrastructure (IDI), which facilitates research, and an independent ministerial advisory group, the Data Futures Partnership (DFP), to engage with citizens, the private sector and non-government organisations (NGOs) to facilitate trusted data use and strengthen the data ecosystem in New Zealand. We commend these steps but argue that key strategies for effective health-data governance remain absent in New Zealand. In particular, we argue in favour of the establishment of: (1) a specialist Health and Disability Ethics Committee (HDEC) to review applications for secondary-use data research; (2) a public registry of approved secondary-use research projects (similar to a clinical trials registry); and (3) detailed guidelines for the review and approval of secondary-use data research. We present an ethical framework based on the values of public interest, trust and transparency to justify these innovations. labels: #Biomedical Research#Datasets as Topic#Ethics Committees#Guidelines as Topic#Humans#New Zealand#Registries'
b'Background: Nontraumatic knee pain (NTKP) is highly prevalent in adults 65 years of age and older. Evidence-based guidelines recommend early use of rehabilitation; however, there is limited information comparing differences in health care utilization when rehabilitation is included in the management of NTKP.Objectives: To describe the overall health care utilization associated with the management of NTKP; estimate the proportion of people who receive outpatient rehabilitation services; and evaluate the timing of outpatient rehabilitation and its association with other health care utilization.Design: Rretrospective cohort study was conducted using a random 10% sample of 2009-2010 Medicare claims. The sample included 52,504 beneficiaries presenting within the ambulatory setting for management of NTKP.Methods: Exposure to outpatient rehabilitative services following the NTKP index ambulatory visit was defined as 1) no rehabilitation; 2) early rehabilitation (1-15 days); 3) intermediate rehabilitation (16-120 days); and 4) late rehabilitation (>120 days). Logistic regression models were fit to analyze the association of rehabilitation timing with narcotic analgesic use, utilization of nonsurgical invasive procedure, and knee surgery during a 12-month follow-up period.Results: Only 11.1% of beneficiaries were exposed to outpatient rehabilitation services. The likelihood of using narcotics, nonsurgical invasive procedures, or surgery was significantly less (adjusted odds ratios; 0.67, 0.50, 0.58, respectively) for those who received early rehabilitation when compared to no rehabilitation. The exposure-outcome relationships were reversed in the intermediate and late rehabilitation cohorts.Limitations: This was an observational study, and residual confounding could affect the observed relationships. Therefore, definitive conclusions regarding the causal effect of rehabilitation exposure and reduced utilization of more aggressive interventions cannot be determined at this time.Conclusions: Early referral for outpatient rehabilitation may reduce the utilization of health services that carry greater risks or costs in those with NTKP. labels: #Aged#Ambulatory Care#Female#Humans#Knee Injuries#Male#Medicare#Pain#Retrospective Studies#United States'
b'Sleep disturbance is a common problem following concussion. A retrospective chart review was conducted at a regional concussion clinic on patients 13 to 18 years of age between 2005 and 2011. Statistical analysis evaluated sleep disturbance and duration of concussion, as well as the use and effectiveness of melatonin. A total of 417 patients met inclusion criteria. One hundred twenty-three (34%) reported disturbance in sleep. There was no difference in sleep disturbance based on age, gender, or past number of concussions. Sleep disturbance was associated with a 3- to 4-fold increase in recovery time. Non-sport-related concussions were more likely to be associated with sleep disturbance compared to sport-related concussions (45% vs 29%, P = .01). Melatonin improved sleep disturbance in 67% of the patients. Evaluating sleep disorders following concussion is an important part of the assessment. These findings will help clinicians provide anticipatory guidance and treatment for adolescents recovering from concussion. labels: #Adolescent#Brain Concussion#Central Nervous System Depressants#Female#Humans#Male#Melatonin#Recovery of Function#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sleep Wake Disorders#Time#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Hypoparathyroidism, sensorineural hearing loss, and renal disease (HDR) syndrome, also known as Barakat syndrome, is a rare genetic disorder with high phenotypic heterogeneity caused by haploinsufficiency of the GATA3 gene on chromosome 10p14-p15. For these reasons, the diagnosis of HDR syndrome is challenging and requires a high index of suspicion as well as genetic analysis.CASE PRESENTATION: A 14-month-old boy, with sensorineural hearing loss in both ears, showed typical radiological features of X-linked stapes gusher on preoperative temporal bone computed tomography (CT) for cochlear implantations. Then after his discharge from hospital, he suffered a hypocalcemic seizure and we discovered a renal cyst during investigation of hypocalcemia. He was finally diagnosed with HDR syndrome by clinical findings, which were confirmed by molecular genetic testing. Direct sequencing of the GATA3 gene showed a heterozygous 2-bp deletion (c.1201_1202delAT), which is predicted to cause a frameshift of the reading frame (p.Met401Valfs*106).CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first case of HDR syndrome with a novel de novo variant mimicking a congenital X-linked stapes gusher syndrome. Novel mutations and the diversity of clinical manifestations expand the genotypic and phenotypic spectrum of HDR syndrome. Diagnosis of HDR syndrome is still challenging, but clinicians should consider it in their differential diagnosis for children with a wide range of clinical manifestations including hypocalcemia induced seizures and deafness. We hope that this case will contribute to further understanding and studies of HDR-associated GATA3 mutations. labels: #Chromosomes, Human, Pair 10#Cochlear Implantation#Diagnosis, Differential#Frameshift Mutation#GATA3 Transcription Factor#Gene Expression#Genetic Diseases, X-Linked#Haploinsufficiency#Hearing Loss, Conductive#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Heterozygote#Humans#Hypoparathyroidism#Infant#Male#Nephrosis#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Subjects undergoing coronary stenting with complex lesion anatomy may experience different risks and benefits with prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy.OBJECTIVES: The authors assessed the effect of 30\xc2\xa0months versus 12\xc2\xa0months of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) based on the presence or absence of anatomically-complex target lesions.METHODS: In the DAPT Study, combined myocardial infarction (MI) or stent thrombosis and moderate/severe bleeding were assessed in enrolled (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa025,416) and randomized (n\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa011,554) subjects. Complex lesions had any of the following characteristics: unprotected left main,>2 lesions/vessel, length\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa530\xc2\xa0mm, bifurcation with side branch\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa52.5\xc2\xa0mm, vein bypass graft, or thrombus-containing lesion. Events were evaluated according to increasing number of complexity characteristics and compared according to DAPT score.RESULTS: Enrolled subjects with more complex target lesions had higher rates of MI or stent thrombosis in the first 12\xc2\xa0months after PCI (3.9% vs. 2.4%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001). Among those who were event-free at 12\xc2\xa0months, rates of MI or stent thrombosis between 12 and 30\xc2\xa0months were similar between those with versus without complex anatomy (3.5% vs. 2.9%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.07). Reduction of MI or stent thrombosis with continued thienopyridine beyond 12\xc2\xa0months versus placebo was similar for subjects with (2.5% vs. 4.5%; hazard ratio: 0.55; 95% confidence interval: 0.38 to 0.79; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001) and without (2.0% vs. 3.8%; hazard ratio: 0.52; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.69; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) anatomic complexity (pinteraction\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.81), as was increase in moderate/severe bleeding (pinteraction\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.44). Among subjects with anatomic complexity, those with DAPT scores\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa52 randomized to continued thienopyridine had greater reductions in MI or stent thrombosis (3.0% vs. 6.1%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) compared with subjects with scores\xc2\xa0<2 (1.7% vs. 2.3%; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.42; p value comparing risk differences\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03).CONCLUSIONS: Complex target-lesion anatomy is associated with increased ischemic events, particularly within the first year after PCI. Among those without events in the first 12\xc2\xa0months, the benefits of extending DAPT were similar in subjects with and without complex lesions. A high DAPT score identified those experiencing the most benefit from extended treatment among patients with and without complex anatomy. (The Dual Antiplatelet Therapy Study [DAPT Study]; NCT00977938). labels: #Aged#Aspirin#Coronary Artery Disease#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug-Eluting Stents#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hemorrhage#Humans#Internationality#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Percutaneous Coronary Intervention#Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors#Pyridines#Ticlopidine#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: There is a paucity of data on the association between high-sensitivity cardiac troponin (hs-cTn) levels and outcomes in patients with chest pain but no myocardial infarction (MI), or any other condition that may lead to acutely elevated troponin levels.OBJECTIVES: The authors hypothesized that any detectable high-sensitivity cardiac troponin T (hs-cTnT) level is associated with adverse outcomes.METHODS: All patients (N\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa022,589)>25 years of age with chest pain and hs-cTnT analyzed concurrently in the\xc2\xa0emergency department of Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden from 2011 to 2014 were eligible for inclusion. After excluding all patients with acute conditions that may have affected hs-cTnT, or MI associated with the\xc2\xa0visit, or insufficient information to determine whether troponin levels were stable, Cox regression was used to estimate risks for all-cause, cardiovascular, and noncardiovascular mortality, MI, and heart failure at different levels of troponins.RESULTS: A total of 19,460 patients with a mean age of 54 \xc2\xb1 17 years were included. During a mean follow-up of 3.3\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa01.2 years, 1,349 (6.9%) patients died. Adjusted hazard ratios (with 95% confidence intervals) for all-cause mortality were 2.00 (1.66 to 2.42), 2.92 (2.38 to 3.59), 4.07 (3.28 to 5.05), 6.77 (5.22 to 8.78), and 9.68 (7.18 to 13.00) in patients\xc2\xa0with hs-cTnT levels of 5 to 9, 10 to 14, 15 to 29, 30 to 49, and\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa550\xc2\xa0ng/l, respectively, compared with patients with hs-cTnT levels\xc2\xa0<5\xc2\xa0ng/l. There was a strong and graded association between all detectable levels of hs-cTnT and risk\xc2\xa0for MI, heart failure, and cardiovascular and noncardiovascular mortality.CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with chest pain and stable troponin levels, any detectable level of hs-cTnT is associated with an increased risk of death and cardiovascular outcomes and should merit further attention. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Biomarkers#Cardiovascular Diseases#Chest Pain#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Sweden#Treatment Outcome#Troponin T#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Before the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), cardiac mortality and morbidity were common in HIV-infected children.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to identify long-term cardiovascular effects of HAART in HIV-infected children.METHODS: The CHAART-2 (HAART-Associated Cardiotoxicity in HIV-Infected Children) study prospectively compared 148 echocardiograms from 74 HAART-exposed children to 860 echocardiograms from 140 HAART-unexposed but HIV-infected children from the Pulmonary and Cardiac Complications of Vertically Transmitted HIV Infection (P2C2HIV) study. Both studies used similar protocol, centralized echocardiographic interpretation, and measures expressed as z-scores referenced to healthy controls. Associations between HAART exposure and echocardiographic measures were\xc2\xa0evaluated using generalized estimating equations.RESULTS: Comparing the HAART-exposed and HAART-unexposed groups, any HAART exposure was positively associated with left ventricular (LV) fractional shortening (z-score for difference\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.07; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.02) and HAART exposure duration (z-score difference per year\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.17; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.003. LV mass was negatively associated with any HAART exposure\xc2\xa0(z-score difference =\xc2\xa0-0.64; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.01) as was septal thickness (z-score difference =\xc2\xa0-0.93; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.001). Duration of HAART exposure was negatively associated with LV end-systolic dimension and heart rate (z-score difference per year=\xc2\xa0-0.11; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.05; and z-score difference per year =\xc2\xa0-0.10; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002, respectively). During 11 years of follow-up, in the HAART-exposed group, LV mass and LV end-diastolic septal thickness were lower whereas LV contractility and LV\xc2\xa0fractional shortening were higher when compared to the HAART-unexposed group.CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac structure and function were better in perinatally HIV-infected children exposed to HAART than\xc2\xa0in those of similar children from the pre-HAART era but did decline over time. Evidence-based strategies for cardiovascular monitoring are needed to inform treatment decisions to improve long-term cardiovascular health. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active#Cardiotoxins#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#HIV Infections#Humans#Hypertrophy, Left Ventricular#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Perinatal Care#Pregnancy#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Ventricular Dysfunction, Left'
b'BACKGROUND: Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) has long served as the standard of care for short-term mechanical circulatory support in pediatrics. It is unknown whether newer-generation temporary circulatory support (TCS) devices afford children a meaningful survival advantage over ECMO.OBJECTIVES: This study sought to determine whether bridge-to-heart transplant survival with a TCS device is superior to ECMO after adjusting for patient differences.METHODS: All children\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa421 years of age listed for heart transplant from 2011 to 2015 who received a TCS device or\xc2\xa0ECMO as a bridge to transplant were identified using Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network data. Children supported with a TCS device were compared with a propensity score (PS)-matched cohort of children\xc2\xa0supported with ECMO as a bridge to transplant. The primary endpoint was Kaplan-Meier survival to transplant.RESULTS: The number of TCS devices implanted in children increased from\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa43 per year before 2011 to 50 in 2015. Overall, 93 patients implanted with TCS devices were included for analysis (59% left ventricular assist devices, 23% right ventricular assist devices, 18% biventricular assist devices). The most commonly used device was the CentriMag-PediMag system (65%), followed by TandemHeart (18%), Rotaflow (6%), and Impella (5%). Among 164 PS-matched patients, support duration was longer for the TCS cohort (median 19\xc2\xa0days vs. 6\xc2\xa0days; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), and was longest for the CentriMag-PediMag (24\xc2\xa0days vs. 6\xc2\xa0days; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) with 27% supported for>60\xc2\xa0days. Compared with the ECMO cohort, the PS-matched TCS cohort had longer survival to transplant (hazard ratio: 0.49; 95% confidence interval: 0.30 to 0.79) and longer overall survival (hazard ratio: 0.61; 95% confidence interval: 0.39 to 0.96), with 90-day mortality before transplant that was modestly reduced (from 45% with\xc2\xa0ECMO to 39% with TCS).CONCLUSIONS: The use of TCS devices in children as a bridge to transplant has risen rapidly in recent years, led\xc2\xa0by\xc2\xa0the\xc2\xa0growth of magnetically levitated centrifugal flow pumps. Compared with conventional ECMO, TCS durations\xc2\xa0are\xc2\xa0longer, and more importantly, patient survival is superior. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation#Female#Heart Transplantation#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors#United States#Waiting Lists'
b'BACKGROUND: Improved understanding of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) due to titin truncation (TTNtv) may help guide patient stratification.OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to establish relationships among TTNtv genotype, cardiac phenotype, and outcomes in DCM.METHODS: In this prospective, observational cohort study, DCM patients underwent clinical evaluation, late gadolinium enhancement cardiovascular magnetic resonance, TTN sequencing, and adjudicated follow-up blinded to genotype for the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular death, and major arrhythmic and major heart failure events.RESULTS: Of 716 subjects recruited (mean age 53.5 \xc2\xb1 14.3 years; 469 men [65.5%]; 577 [80.6%]New York Heart Association function class I/II), 83 (11.6%) had TTNtv. Patients with TTNtv were younger at enrollment (49.0 years vs. 54.1 years; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.002) and had lower indexed left ventricular mass (5.1 g/m2reduction; padjusted\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.03) compared with patients without TTNtv. There was no difference in biventricular ejection fraction between TTNtv+/-groups. Overall, 78 of 604 patients (12.9%) met the primary endpoint (median follow-up 3.9 years; interquartile range: 2.0 to 5.8 years), including 9 of 71 patients with TTNtv (12.7%) and 69 of 533 (12.9%) without. There was no difference in the composite primary outcome of cardiovascular death, heart failure, or arrhythmic events, for patients with or without TTNtv (hazard\xc2\xa0ratio adjusted for primary endpoint: 0.92 [95% confidence interval: 0.45 to 1.87]; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.82).CONCLUSIONS: In this large, prospective, genotype-phenotype study of ambulatory DCM patients, we show that prognostic factors for all-cause DCM also predict outcome in TTNtv DCM, and that TTNtv DCM does not appear to be associated with worse medium-term prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiomyopathy, Dilated#Child#Cohort Studies#Connectin#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Prospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Treatments for high-risk essential thrombocythemia (ET) address thrombocytosis, disease-related symptoms, as well as risks of thrombosis, hemorrhage, transformation to myelofibrosis, and leukemia. Patients resistant/intolerant to hydroxycarbamide (HC) have a poor outlook. MAJIC (ISRCTN61925716) is a randomized phase 2 trial of ruxolitinib (JAK1/2 inhibitor) vs best available therapy (BAT) in ET and polycythemia vera patients resistant or intolerant to HC. Here, findings of MAJIC-ET are reported, where the modified intention-to-treat population included 58 and 52 patients randomized to receive ruxolitinib or BAT, respectively. There was no evidence of improvement in complete response within 1 year reported in 27 (46.6%) patients treated with ruxolitinib vs 23 (44.2%) with BAT (P= .40). At 2 years, rates of thrombosis, hemorrhage, and transformation were not significantly different; however, some disease-related symptoms improved in patients receiving ruxolitinib relative to BAT. Molecular responses were uncommon; there were 2 complete molecular responses (CMR) and 1 partial molecular response inCALR-positive ruxolitinib-treated patients. Transformation to myelofibrosis occurred in 1 CMR patient, presumably because of the emergence of a different clone, raising questions about the relevance of CMR in ET patients. Grade 3 and 4 anemia occurred in 19% and 0% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) in the BAT arm, and grade 3 and 4 thrombocytopenia in 5.2% and 1.7% of ruxolitinib vs 0% (both grades) of BAT-treated patients. Rates of discontinuation or treatment switching did not differ between the 2 trial arms. The MAJIC-ET trial suggests that ruxolitinib is not superior to current second-line treatments for ET. This trial was registered at www.isrctn.com as #ISRCTN61925716. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Disease Progression#Drug Resistance#Female#Hemorrhage#Humans#Hydroxyurea#Male#Middle Aged#Pyrazoles#Thrombocythemia, Essential#Treatment Outcome#Withholding Treatment'
b"BACKGROUND: Poor and minority children with injuries concerning for abuse are evaluated and diagnosed for abuse differentially. We hypothesized that 2 steps in the decision-making process would influence evaluation and diagnosis: social intuition from meeting the family and objective social information associated with child abuse risk.METHODS: Between 2009 and 2013, 32 child abuse pediatricians (CAPs) submitted 730 child abuse consultations including original medical evaluations and diagnoses. CAPs evaluated and diagnosed each other's cases. Comparisons of evaluations and diagnoses were made by levels of social understanding available to the CAP: meeting the family (social intuition and information), reading the case (social information), and reading the case without social information. Evaluations were compared with a consensus gold standard by using logistic regression modeling adjusting for child and CAP characteristics. Diagnostic categories were compared by level of social understanding and diagnostic certainty by using contingency tables.RESULTS: CAPs without access to social intuition were approximately twice as likely to perform gold standard evaluations for neurotrauma and long bone fracture compared with CAPs who met families. Diagnostic agreement fell from 73.3% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 70.1%-76.5%) when social information was present to 66.5% (95% CI: 63.1%-70.0%) when social information was restricted. In cases with less certainty, agreement dropped to 51.3% (95% CI: 46.0%-56.7%).CONCLUSIONS: Social intuition and information play a role in the physical child abuse decision-making process, which may contribute to differential diagnosis. Simple interventions including decision tools, check lists, and peer review may structure evaluations to ensure children's equal treatment. labels: #Child#Child Abuse#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Humans#Interpersonal Relations#Intuition#Male#Pediatricians#Physician-Patient Relations#Poverty#Referral and Consultation#Risk Factors"
b"Objective\xc2\xa0To determine physician characteristics associated with exnovation (scaling back on use) and de-adoption (abandoning use) of carotid revascularization.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective longitudinal cohort study.Setting\xc2\xa0Medicare claims linked to the Doximity database provider registry, 2006-13.Participants\xc2\xa09158 physicians who performed carotid revascularization on Medicare patients between 2006 and 2013.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcomes were the number of carotid revascularization procedures for each physician per year at the end of the sample period, and the percentage change in the volume of carotid revascularization procedures.Results\xc2\xa0At baseline (2006-07), 9158 physicians performed carotid revascularization. By 2012-13 the use of revascularization in this cohort had declined by 37.7%, with two thirds attributable to scaling back (exnovation) rather than dropping the procedure entirely (de-adoption). Compared with physicians with fewer than 12 years of experience, those with more than 25 years of experience decreased use by an additional 23.0% (95% confidence interval -36.7% to -9.2%). The lowest rates of decline occurred in physicians specializing in vascular or thoracic surgery, for whom the procedures accounted for a large share of revenue. Physicians with high proportions of patients aged more than 80 years or with asymptomatic carotid stenosis were less likely to reduce their use of carotid revascularization.Conclusion\xc2\xa0Surgeons with more experience and the lowest share in carotid revascularization practice reduced their use of the procedure the most. These practice factors should be considered in quality improvement efforts when the evidence base evolves away from a specific treatment. labels: #Carotid Stenosis#Diffusion of Innovation#Endarterectomy, Carotid#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Medicare#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Retrospective Studies#United States"
b"Objective\xc2\xa0To estimate financial payments from industry to US journal editors.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective observational study.Setting\xc2\xa052 influential (high impact factor for their specialty) US medical journals from 26 specialties and US Open Payments database, 2014.Participants\xc2\xa0713 editors at the associate level and above identified from each journal's online masthead.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0All general payments (eg, personal income) and research related payments from pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers to eligible physicians in 2014. Percentages of editors receiving payments and the magnitude of such payments were compared across journals and by specialty. Journal websites were also reviewed to determine if conflict of interest policies for editors were readily accessible.Results\xc2\xa0Of 713 eligible editors, 361 (50.6%) received some (>$0) general payments in 2014, and 139 (19.5%) received research payments. The median general payment was $11 (\xc2\xa38; \xe2\x82\xac9) (interquartile range $0-2923) and the median research payment was $0 ($0-0). The mean general payment was $28\xe2\x80\x89136 (SD $415\xe2\x80\x89045), and the mean research payment was $37\xe2\x80\x89963 (SD $175\xe2\x80\x89239). The highest median general payments were received by journal editors from endocrinology ($7207, $0-85\xe2\x80\x89816), cardiology ($2664, $0-12\xe2\x80\x89912), gastroenterology ($696, $0-20\xe2\x80\x89002), rheumatology ($515, $0-14\xe2\x80\x89280), and urology ($480, $90-669). For high impact general medicine journals, median payments were $0 ($0-14). A review of the 52 journal websites revealed that editor conflict of interest policies were readily accessible (ie, within five minutes) for 17/52 (32.7%) of journals.Conclusions\xc2\xa0Industry payments to journal editors are common and often large, particularly for certain subspecialties. Journals should consider the potential impact of such payments on public trust in published research. labels: #Biomedical Research#Conflict of Interest#Drug Industry#Editorial Policies#Equipment and Supplies#Humans#Income#Manufacturing Industry#Periodicals as Topic#Retrospective Studies#United States"
b"Helen Roberts of Defra's International Disease Monitoring team sets out the situation regarding equine infectious anaemia in Europe, the threat to the UK and the expectations of disease control measures in light of an outbreak being detected. labels: #Animals#Disease Outbreaks#Equine Infectious Anemia#Europe#Horses#Sentinel Surveillance#United Kingdom"
b'In a review summary on page 450, Pasmans and others discuss the future of keeping reptiles and amphibians as pets. Here,Clifford Warwick and othersdiscuss the animal welfare and public health implications of exotic pet business. labels: #Amphibians#Animal Welfare#Animals#Animals, Exotic#Commerce#Forecasting#Public Health#Reptiles'
b'High-resolution maps of enhancer-promoter interactions in rare primary human T cell subsets and coronary artery smooth muscle cells link variants associated with autoimmune and cardiovascular diseases to target genes. This represents an important step forward for mapping genes involved in complex diseases. labels: #Autoimmune Diseases#B-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Chromatin#Chromatin Immunoprecipitation#Chromosome Mapping#Coronary Artery Disease#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Genome, Human#Genome-Wide Association Study#Histones#Humans#Myocytes, Smooth Muscle#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Quantitative Trait Loci#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer'
b'Human-derived tumor models are becoming popular in the context of personalized medicine, but a new study shows that these models could be less representative of primary tumors than previously thought, particularly when using late passages. labels: #Animals#Clonal Evolution#Clone Cells#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA, Neoplasm#Disease Models, Animal#Heterografts#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Mice#Neoplasms#Precision Medicine#Species Specificity#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'We presented adaptive random network models to describe human behavioral change during epidemics and performed stochastic simulations of SIR (susceptible-infectious-recovered) epidemic models on adaptive random networks. The interplay between infectious disease dynamics and network adaptation dynamics was investigated in regard to the disease transmission and the cumulative number of infection cases. We found that the cumulative case was reduced and associated with an increasing network adaptation probability but was increased with an increasing disease transmission probability. It was found that the topological changes of the adaptive random networks were able to reduce the cumulative number of infections and also to delay the epidemic peak. Our results also suggest the existence of a critical value for the ratio of disease transmission and adaptation probabilities below which the epidemic cannot occur. labels: #Communicable Diseases, Emerging#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Epidemics#Humans#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Biological#Prevalence#Stochastic Processes#Time Factors'
b'Purpose: To refine the Minnesota Grading System (MGS) using definitions from the Age-Related Eye Disease Studies (AREDS) into a nine-step grading scale (MGS-9).Methods: A nine-step grading scale descriptive analysis using three key phenotypic features (total drusen area, increased, and decreased pigmentation) of human eyebank eyes that were graded according to definitions from the AREDS criteria in order to harmonize studies of disease progression for research involving human tissue. From 2005 through February 2017, we have analyzed 1159 human eyes, procured from two eyebanks. Each macula was imaged using high-resolution, stereoscopic color fundus photography with both direct- and transillumination. Fundus images were digitally overlaid with a grading template and triangulated for foveal centration.Results: We documented and stratified risk for each globe by applying the AREDS nine-step grading scale to the key clinical features from the MGS-9. We found a good distribution within the MGS categories (1-9) with few level eight globes. Eyes were processed within 12.1 \xc2\xb1 6.3, hours from the time of death through imaging, dissection, and freezing or fixation. Applying the MGS-9 to 331 pairs (662 eyes were simultaneously graded), 84% were within one-grading step and 93% within two steps of the fellow eye. We also document reticular pseudodrusen, basal laminar drusen, and pattern dystrophy.Conclusions: The MGS nine-step grading scale enables researchers using human tissue to refine the risk assessment of donor tissue. This analysis will harmonize results among researchers when grading human tissue using MGS criteria. Most importantly, the MGS-9 links directly to the known risk for progression from the AREDS. labels: #Aftercare#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Diagnostic Techniques, Ophthalmological#Eye Banks#Female#Humans#Macula Lutea#Male#Middle Aged#Minnesota#Reproducibility of Results#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Tissue Donors#Wet Macular Degeneration'
b'Purpose: We determined the effects of a remodeled inner retina on the flicker electroretinograms (ERGs) in a rabbit eye at an advanced stage of inherited retinal degeneration.Methods: Six wild-type (WT) and four rhodopsin P347L transgenic (Tg) rabbits were studied at 18 months of age. Flicker ERGs were elicited by sinusoidal stimuli at frequencies of 3.906 to 50.781 Hz. To block the ON and OFF retinal pathways, 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB), and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3(1H, 4H)-dione (CNQX), respectively, were injected intravitreally. The amplitudes and phases of the fundamental components of the pre- and postdrug ERGs were analyzed. The postsynaptic APB (ON-) and CNQX (OFF-) sensitive components were determined by examining the phases and amplitude vectors.Results: The temporal properties of the Tg rabbits were different from those of the WT rabbits and had unique features; at 3.906 Hz, the amplitude was depressed but it increased by more than 3.5-fold at 15.625 Hz. The reduction of the amplitude at 3.906 Hz in Tg rabbits was caused by a cancelation of the ON and OFF components by a phase difference of 180\xc2\xb0. On the other hand, an increase in the amplitude at 15.625 Hz in Tg rabbits was caused by the summation of the ON and OFF components, which had an approximate 120\xc2\xb0 phase difference.Conclusions: The temporal properties of the flicker ERGs of Tg rabbits were affected markedly by the remodeling of the retinal neurons. Evaluations of the flicker ERGs in RP eyes must be done with careful considerations of the current findings. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Photic Stimulation#Rabbits#Retina#Retinal Neurons#Retinitis Pigmentosa'
b'Purpose: To investigate the relationship between objective ocular torsion and the presence or absence of the trochlear nerve in subjects with unilateral superior oblique palsy (SOP).Methods: A total of 159 subjects with congenital and acquired unilateral SOP were reviewed. Eighty-four subjects who had a normal trochlear nerve (present group) and 75 subjects without a trochlear nerve (absent group) were included. Cyclovertical motility parameters and objective ocular torsion were compared between groups, and factors related to ocular torsion were evaluated.Results: The degree of "net" excyclotorsion in the paretic eye was larger in the absent group compared to the present group (P = 0.002). The proportion of net excyclotorsion in the paretic eye was greater in the absent group (11% vs. 37%), while net incyclotorsion was greater in the present group (41% vs. 23%) (P<0.001). Net excyclotorsion of the paretic eye was associated with absence of the trochlear nerve (P<0.001) and smaller size of the paretic SO (P<0.001). Net incyclotorsion of the paretic eye was related with a normal trochlear nerve (P = 0.005), larger size of the paretic SO (P = 0.002), and greater hypertropia during ipsilateral gaze (P = 0.024).Conclusions: The status of the trochlear nerve, paretic SO size, and hypertropia during ipsilateral gaze which reflects the tensile strength of the ipsilateral superior rectus, significantly contribute to ocular torsion in unilateral SOP. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Child#Child, Preschool#Eye Movements#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Ocular Motility Disorders#Oculomotor Muscles#Retrospective Studies#Trochlear Nerve#Trochlear Nerve Diseases#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the angiogenic properties of corneal derived mesenchymal stromal cells (Co-MSC).Methods: Co-MSCs were extracted from human cadaver, and wild-type (C57BL/6J) and SERPINF1-/- mice corneas. The MSC secretome was collected in a serum-free medium. Human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) tube formation and fibrin gel bead assay (FIBA) sprout formation were used to assess the angiogenic properties of Co-MSC secretome. Complete corneal epithelial debridement was used to induce corneal neovascularization in wild-type mice. Co-MSCs embedded in fibrin gel was applied over the debrided cornea to evaluate the angiogenic effects of Co-MSCs in vivo. Immunoprecipitation was used to remove soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1 (sFLT-1) and pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF, SERPINF1 gene) from the Co-MSC secretome.Results: Co-MSC secretome significantly inhibited HUVECs tube and sprout formation. Co-MSCs from different donors consistently contained high levels of antiangiogenic factors including sFLT-1 and PEDF; and low levels of the angiogenic factor VEGF-A. In vivo, application of Co-MSCs to mouse corneas after injury prevented the development of corneal neovascularization. Removing PEDF or sFLT-1 from the secretome significantly diminished the antiangiogenic effects of Co-MSCs. Co-MSCs isolated from SERPINF1-/- mice had significantly reduced antiangiogenic effects compared to SERPINF1+/+ (wild-type) Co-MSCs.Conclusions: These results illustrate the direct antiangiogenic properties of Co-MSCs, the importance of sFLT-1 and PEDF, and their potential clinical application for preventing pathologic corneal neovascularization. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Cadaver#Cells, Cultured#Cornea#Corneal Neovascularization#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Eye Proteins#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Nerve Growth Factors#Serpins#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-1'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the effect of acutely elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) on the functional and blood flow responses of the rat retina to flicker stimulation.Methods: Brown Norway (n = 15) rats were dark-adapted before ketamine/xylazine anesthesia. IOP was raised acutely in one eye to \xe2\x88\xbc45 mm Hg with a vascular loop. In 11 rats, white light flicker stimulus (10 Hz, 2 seconds duration, 0.80 log scotopic cd\xc2\xb7s/m2) was applied before and during IOP elevation, and 10 minutes after loop removal. Changes in the total retinal blood flow (TRBF) and retinal function induced by the visual stimulus were measured simultaneously with a combined optical coherence tomography (OCT) + electroretinography (ERG) system. Systemic blood pressure was measured in the remaining four rats frequently from 10 to 90 minutes post anesthesia injection.Results: The systemic blood pressure remained at 99 \xc2\xb1 4 mm Hg throughout the measurements (n = 4). Under normal IOP, the TRBF was 5.6 \xc2\xb1 1.9 \xce\xbcL/min, and the average retinal blood vessel size (BVS) in the vicinity of the optic nerve head (ONH) was 44.1 \xc2\xb1 4.5 \xce\xbcm. During IOP elevation, the TRBF was significantly lower (3.8 \xc2\xb1 1.2 \xce\xbcL/min, P<0.01) and the BVS was significantly smaller (35.1 \xc2\xb1 2.6 \xce\xbcm, P<0.01). Both TRBF and BVS returned to baseline within \xe2\x88\xbc10 minutes from removal of the vascular loop. The flicker-induced TRBF change measured under normal IOP (6.0 \xc2\xb1 3.3%) was reduced significantly to 0.1 \xc2\xb1 0.3% (P<0.01) during IOP elevation, and recovered to 5.9 \xc2\xb1 1.7% within 10 minutes after loop removal. During IOP elevation, the magnitude of the ERG second harmonic component (SHC) decreased to 55% of its baseline value (P<0.01) and remained significantly smaller than baseline (P<0.01).Conclusions: Acute IOP elevation to 45 mm Hg caused suppression of the retinal functional and TRBF response to flicker stimulation. labels: #Acute Disease#Animals#Blood Pressure#Dark Adaptation#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Photic Stimulation#Rats#Rats, Inbred BN#Regional Blood Flow#Retina#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: Alterations in retinal oxygen metabolism and retinal microcirculation are signs of impending diabetic retinopathy (DR). However, if specific retinal regions are primarily affected is so far unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate if retinal oxygen saturation (SO2) and microvascular hemodynamic parameters follow a distinct regional pattern in patients with diabetes but no DR.Methods: Patients with type II diabetes without clinically apparent DR were imaged as follows: SO2 in peripapillary vessels was assessed with dual-wavelength oximetry. Optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) scans were acquired with a prototype system using a swept-source laser with an effective 400 kHz A-scan rate and 16\xc2\xb0 field of view. Regional flow indices termed "flux" were calculated for the peripapillary microvasculature. Parafoveal capillary density was evaluated with the commercially available AngioVue OCTA.Results: Twenty-nine eyes of 16 consecutive patients (59 \xc2\xb1 10 years, 6 females) were included in this study. SO2 differed significantly between quadrants (P<0.001), with a decreasing pattern from the upper nasal through the lower nasal, the upper temporal and the lower temporal quadrant in arterioles and venules. In contrast, peripapillary flux followed an increasing trend from nasally to temporally. Peripapillary and parafoveal microvascular hemodynamic parameters demonstrated no significant regional variability as observed for retinal oxygenation.Conclusions: Metabolic imaging identified regional differences in retinal SO2 without an associated topographic variance in microvascular hemodynamics in type II diabetes without DR. Future studies should focus on the mechanisms causing this heterogeneity in metabolic demand. labels: #Capillaries#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Fundus Oculi#Hemodynamics#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Oximetry#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Regional Blood Flow#Retina#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: To identify and quantify the three distinct retinal capillary plexuses and the foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in healthy subjects according to age using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) with novel projection artifact removal (PAR) software and improved segmentation.Methods: All eyes in this cross-sectional study underwent OCTA imaging using RTVue XR Avanti with novel PAR AngioVue software. OCTA scans were analyzed and the three main parafoveal retinal capillary plexuses were segmented and vessel density and FAZ area were calculated.Results: A total of 152 normal eyes from 95 subjects (39 males, 56 females, mean age 42 \xc2\xb1 25 years) were included. The mean vessel density was 15.48 \xc2\xb1 2.04 mm-1 in the superficial retinal capillary plexus (SCP), 15.28 \xc2\xb1 1.82 mm-1 in the intermediate retinal capillary plexus (ICP), and 16.33 \xc2\xb1 2.32 mm-1 in the deep retinal capillary plexus (DCP) for 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm OCTA images. Analysis of 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm scans yielded a mean FAZ area of 0.270 \xc2\xb1 0.101 mm2. The average reduction in vessel density per year of age with 3 \xc3\x97 3-mm OCTA scans was 0.04 mm-1 (0.22%) in the SCP, 0.05 mm-1 (0.27%) in the ICP, and 0.06 mm-1 (0.30%) in the DCP. The average increase in FAZ area per year of age was 0.0015 mm2 (0.72%).Conclusions: Novel PAR software may provide improved visualization of all three major parafoveal retinal capillary plexuses including the ICP. Using this technology, SCP, ICP, and DCP vessel density decreased with increasing age while FAZ area increased with age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Capillaries#Child#Child, Preschool#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Follow-Up Studies#Fovea Centralis#Fundus Oculi#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retinal Vessels#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Young Adult'
b'Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an increasingly common cause of chronic liver disease. Till date, liver biopsy remains the gold standard for identification and quantification of the wide histological spectra of NAFLD. Histological scorings are very useful and widely applied for the diagnosis and management in clinical trials and follow-up studies of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). However, in view of scarce published literature, there is a need to evaluate them in large cohort of NAFLD. This study was aimed to evaluate the two histological scoring systems (NAS-CRN, SAF) in the diagnosis of NAFLD and to assess the role of histological characteristics as injury markers in NAFLD. Retrospective histological study of liver biopsies of 1000 patients diagnosed as NAFLD, between 2010 and 2016, was conducted. Histopathologic evaluation and semiquantiative scoring based on NAS-CRN and SAF algorithm and their correlation with serum aminotransferase and fibrosis were performed. Liver biopsies were classified according to the NAS-CRN scoring, as NAS<3 (not NASH) in 72 (7.2%), NAS 3-4 (borderline NASH) in 310 (31%), and NAS \xe2\x89\xa55 (definite NASH) in 618 (61.8%), and SAF classified 117 (11.7%) not NASH and 883 (88.3%) definite NASH. There was excellent concordance for definite NASH and not NASH; however, 88.06% of borderline NASH was classified as NASH by SAF. 76.39% by NAS and 78.63% by SAF algorithm who were diagnosed as not NASH showed the presence of fibrosis; however, higher stages of fibrosis were significantly more prevalent in definite NASH, excluding burnt-out cirrhosis. Serum ALT was significantly associated with increasing stages of fibrosis (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and the three categories (not NASH, borderline NASH, and definite NASH) when classified as with/without fibrosis (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Steatosis of higher grades, more ballooned cells, and more foci of Lobular Inflammation were found in significantly higher proportion of patients with NASH (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001), with higher fibrosis stages (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001) and higher serum ALT levels (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). NAFLD classifications based on histological scoring NAS-CRN and SAF algorithm are concordant for the category of definite NASH and not NASH, while borderline NASH shows discrepant interpretation. There was highly significant correlation between the NAS and SAF categories with high grades of histological characteristics, with serum ALT and with higher stages of fibrosis. Exclusion of fibrosis is a limitation with both scores. labels: #Adult#Alanine Transaminase#Algorithms#Biomarkers#Biopsy#Female#Humans#Liver#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Microscopy#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index'
b"Prior recommendations still aren't implemented 10 years later. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Civil Defense#Decision Making, Organizational#Disaster Planning#Emergencies#Geriatric Nursing#Humans#Nurse's Role#Nursing Homes#Rescue Work#United States"
b"Nurse-led interventions can prepare a vulnerable population. labels: #Alzheimer Disease#Dementia#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Rural Population#United States#United States Department of Veterans Affairs"
b'Bureaucracy and lack of resources challenge licensing and oversight. labels: #Budgets#Certification#Government Regulation#Humans#Licensure, Nursing#New Jersey#Professional Autonomy#Societies, Nursing#Specialty Boards'
b'New guidelines go into effect in January. labels: #Humans#Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Patient Care Management#Practice Guidelines as Topic#United States'
b'Increases in alcohol abuse by women, older adults, and minorities outpaced the national average. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Alcohol Drinking#Alcohol-Related Disorders#Alcoholism#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Minority Groups#Prevalence#Risk-Taking#Sex Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b'Family caregivers are receiving much-needed support, but is it enough? labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Caregivers#Disabled Persons#Female#Health Services Needs and Demand#Helping Behavior#Home Care Services#Home Nursing#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#United States'
b': In recent years, health care organizations have been moving away from a culture that responds to errors and near misses with "shame and blame" and toward a fair and just culture. Such a culture encourages and rewards people for speaking up about safety-related concerns, thus allowing the information to be used for system improvement. In part 1 of this series, we reported on findings from a study that examined how nursing schools handled student errors and near misses. We found that few nursing schools had a policy or a reporting tool concerning these events; and that when policies did exist, the majority did not reflect the principles of a fair and just culture. This article, part 2 of the series, describes several strategies that nursing schools can use for creating such a culture. labels: #Education, Nursing#Humans#Medical Errors#Near Miss, Healthcare#Nurse\'s Role#Nursing Evaluation Research#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Schools, Nursing#Students, Nursing#United States'
b': This series on palliative care is developed in collaboration with the Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association (HPNA; http://hpna.advancingexpertcare.org). The HPNA aims to guide nurses in preventing and relieving suffering and in giving the best possible care to patients and families, regardless of the stage of disease or the need for other therapies. The HPNA offers education, competence, advocacy, leadership, and research. labels: #Delivery of Health Care#Health Expenditures#Humans#Palliative Care#Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act#Undocumented Immigrants#United States'
b"This article is one in a series on the roles of adjunct clinical faculty and preceptors, who teach nursing students and new graduates to apply knowledge in clinical settings. In this article, the author discusses how nursing instructors influence the ethical development of students in the clinical setting. labels: #Clinical Competence#Codes of Ethics#Education, Nursing, Baccalaureate#Ethics, Nursing#Humans#Mentors#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Qualitative Research#Students, Nursing"
b'According to this study. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Behavior Control#Behavior Therapy#Biofeedback, Psychology#Female#Geriatric Nursing#Humans#Male#Nursing Homes#Toilet Training#Urinary Incontinence'
b'According to this study. labels: #Humans#Models, Nursing#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient-Centered Care#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Specialties, Nursing#United States#Workload'
b'According to this study. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cause of Death#Disease Progression#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Observation#Prostatectomy#Prostatic Neoplasms#Survival Analysis#Watchful Waiting'
b"The first step toward solutions to ethical problems. labels: #Critical Care Nursing#Ethics, Nursing#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Medical Errors#Nurse's Role#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Care Team#Philosophy, Nursing"
b"Receiving recommended childhood vaccinations on schedule is the best way to prevent the occurrence and spread of vaccine-preventable diseases (1). Vaccination coverage among children aged 19-35 months in the United States exceeds 90% for most recommended vaccines in the early childhood series (2); however, previous studies have found that few children receive all recommended vaccine doses on time (3). The Minnesota Department of Health (MDH), using information from the Minnesota Immunization Information Connection (MIIC) and the MDH Office of Vital Records, examined early childhood immunization rates and found that children with at least one foreign-born parent were less likely to be up-to-date on recommended immunizations at ages 2, 6, 18, and 36 months than were children with two U.S.-born parents. Vaccination coverage at age 36 months varied by mother's region of origin, ranging from 77.5% among children born to mothers from Central and South America and the Caribbean to 44.2% among children born to mothers from Somalia. Low vaccination coverage in these communities puts susceptible children and adults at risk for outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases, as evidenced by the recent measles outbreak in Minnesota (4). Increased outreach to immigrant, migrant, and refugee populations and other populations with low up-to-date vaccination rates might improve timely vaccination in these communities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child, Preschool#Disease Outbreaks#Emigrants and Immigrants#Female#Humans#Immunization Schedule#Infant#Male#Measles#Minnesota#Mothers#Parents#Vaccination#Vaccines#Young Adult"
b'State surveillance during the last 10 years reveals a nationwide increase in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection among young adults (1). The proportion of infants born to HCV-infected women is also increasing nationally (2). To estimate the proportion of infants born to HCV-infected women and the frequency of confirmed HCV infection in their infants, maternal name and date of birth from HCV reports in the Wisconsin Electronic Disease Surveillance System (WEDSS) were linked to Wisconsin Medicaid data for 2011-2015 births. During this period, in the Wisconsin Medicaid population, the proportion of women who had evidence of HCV infection during pregnancy increased 93%, from 1 in 368 pregnancies to 1 in 192. Among 183 infants born to women with evidence of HCV viremia during pregnancy, 34% received recommended HCV testing (3). Mother-to-infant (vertical) transmission was documented in 4% of infants. Improvements in HCV screening practices among pregnant women and infants could enhance identification of infants at risk for vertical transmission of HCV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C#Humans#Infant#Infectious Disease Transmission, Vertical#Mass Screening#Medicaid#Middle Aged#Population Surveillance#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Risk Assessment#United States#Viremia#Wisconsin#Young Adult'
b'Cigarette smoking has declined considerably among U.S. adults over several decades (1); however, increases have occurred in the use of noncigarette tobacco products in recent years, and the use of multiple tobacco products has become common among current users of noncigarette tobacco products (2,3). Differences in tobacco use have also been observed across population subgroups, including among working adults (2,4). CDC analyzed National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) data for 2014-2016 to describe the most recent prevalence estimates of current (every day or some days) tobacco product use among working U.S. adults by industry and occupation. Among working adults, 22.1% (32.7 million) currently used any form of tobacco; 15.4% used cigarettes, 5.8% used other combustible tobacco (cigars, pipes, water pipes or hookahs, very small cigars, and bidis), 3.0% used smokeless tobacco, and 3.6% used electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes); 4.6% (6.9 million) reported current use of two or more tobacco products. By industry, any tobacco use ranged from 11.0% among education services to 34.3% among construction workers; current use of two or more tobacco products was highest among construction workers (7.1%). By occupation, any tobacco use ranged from 9.3% among life, physical, and social science workers to 37.2% among installation, maintenance, and repair workers; current use of two or more tobacco products was highest among installation, maintenance, and repair workers (10.1%). Proven interventions to prevent and reduce tobacco product use, including current use of multiple products, among working adults are important (5,6). Workplace tobacco-control interventions have been especially effective in reducing cigarette smoking prevalence (7). labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Industry#Male#Middle Aged#Occupations#Prevalence#Smoking#Tobacco Products#United States#Young Adult'
b'An autoimmune background is suspected for Doberman hepatitis (DH). It is based on the finding of mononuclear cell infiltrates in the liver, strong female bias, association to the homozygous risk factor dog leucocyte antigen (DLA) allele DRB1*00601 and aberrant major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression on hepatocytes that correlates with the degree of inflammation in the liver. The aim of this study was to search for autoantibodies against liver-related antigens associated with DH. Twenty-five Dobermans with subclinical DH (SDH), 13 that clinically manifest DH (CDH) and 17 healthy controls were studied. Immunoblotting analysis detected specific antibodies in the DH sera. By mass spectrometry the targets were identified as liver-related enzymes glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH). Using ELISA, anti-GAPDH IgG was detected in 36% (9/25) of SDH dogs and 69.2% (9/13) of the CDH dogs compared to healthy controls (0/17) (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0005). Anti-ADH IgG was detected in 72% (18/25) of SDH dogs and 76.9% (10/13) of CDH dogs and only in one (1/17) control (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.0005). The finding of novel autoantigens, GAPDH and ADH strengthen the hypothesis that DH is an autoimmune disease of the liver. These findings suggest that DH could be diagnosed by screening for autoantibodies against the defined antigens. labels: #Alcohol Dehydrogenase#Animals#Autoantibodies#Autoantigens#Dogs#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Glyceraldehyde 3-Phosphate#Hepatitis, Animal#Immunoblotting#Male#Proteome#Proteomics'
b"On April 25, 2017, the Sinoe County Health Team (CHT) notified the Liberia Ministry of Health (MoH) and the National Public Health Institute of Liberia of an unknown illness among 14 persons that resulted in eight deaths in Sinoe County. On April 26, the National Rapid Response Team and epidemiologists from CDC, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the African Field Epidemiology Network (AFENET) in Liberia were deployed to support the county-led response. Measures were immediately implemented to identify all cases, ascertain the cause of illness, and control the outbreak. Illness was associated with attendance at a funeral event, and laboratory testing confirmed Neisseria meningitidis in biologic specimens from cases. The 2014-2015 Ebola virus disease (Ebola) outbreak in West Africa devastated Liberia's already fragile health system, and it took many months for the country to mount an effective response to control the outbreak. Substantial efforts have been made to strengthen Liberia's health system to prevent, detect, and respond to health threats. The rapid and efficient field response to this outbreak of N. meningitidis resulted in implementation of appropriate steps to prevent a widespread outbreak and reflects improved public health and outbreak response capacity in Liberia. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Capacity Building#Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Child#Cluster Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#International Cooperation#Liberia#Male#Middle Aged#Neisseria meningitidis#Public Health Practice#United States#World Health Organization#Young Adult"
b'On April 25, 2017, a cluster of unexplained illness and deaths among persons who had attended a funeral during April 21-22 was reported in Sinoe County, Liberia (1). Using a broad initial case definition, 31 cases were identified, including 13 (42%) deaths. Twenty-seven cases were from Sinoe County (1), and two cases each were from Grand Bassa and Monsterrado counties, respectively. On May 5, 2017, initial multipathogen testing of specimens from four fatal cases using the Taqman Array Card (TAC) assay identified Neisseria meningitidis in all specimens. Subsequent testing using direct real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) confirmed N. meningitidis in 14 (58%) of 24 patients with available specimens and identified N. meningitidis serogroup C (NmC) in 13 (54%) patients. N. meningitidis was detected in specimens from 11 of the 13 patients who died; no specimens were available from the other two fatal cases. On May 16, 2017, the National Public Health Institute of Liberia and the Ministry of Health of Liberia issued a press release confirming serogroup C meningococcal disease as the cause of this outbreak in Liberia. labels: #Clinical Laboratory Services#Cluster Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Liberia#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Neisseria meningitidis, Serogroup C#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Time Factors'
b'The fourth United Nations Millennium Development Goal, adopted in 2000, set a target to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. One indicator of progress toward this target was measles vaccination coverage (1). In 2010, the World Health Assembly (WHA) set three milestones for measles control by 2015: 1) increase routine coverage with the first dose of a measles-containing vaccine (MCV1) among children aged 1 year to \xe2\x89\xa590% at the national level and to \xe2\x89\xa580% in every district; 2) reduce global annual measles incidence to<5 cases per million population; and 3) reduce global measles mortality by 95% from the 2000 estimate (2).* In 2012, WHA endorsed the Global Vaccine Action Plan,\xe2\x80\xa0with the objective of eliminating measles in four World Health Organization (WHO) regions by 2015 and in five regions by 2020. Countries in all six WHO regions have adopted goals for measles elimination by or before 2020. Measles elimination is defined as the absence of endemic measles virus transmission in a region or other defined geographic area for \xe2\x89\xa512 months, in the presence of a high quality surveillance system that meets targets of key performance indicators. This report updates a previous report (3) and describes progress toward global measles control milestones and regional measles elimination goals during 2000-2016. During this period, annual reported measles incidence decreased 87%, from 145 to 19 cases per million persons, and annual estimated measles deaths decreased 84%, from 550,100 to 89,780; measles vaccination prevented an estimated 20.4 million deaths. However, the 2015 milestones have not yet been met; only one WHO region has been verified as having eliminated measles. Improved implementation of elimination strategies by countries and their partners is needed, with focus on increasing vaccination coverage through substantial and sustained additional investments in health systems, strengthening surveillance systems, using surveillance data to drive programmatic actions, securing political commitment, and raising the visibility of measles elimination goals. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Eradication#Global Health#Humans#Immunization Programs#Incidence#Infant#Measles#Measles Vaccine#Young Adult'
b'PROBLEM/CONDITION: Receipt of key preventive health services among women and men of reproductive age (i.e., 15-44 years) can help them achieve their desired number and spacing of healthy children and improve their overall health. The 2014 publication Providing Quality Family Planning Services: Recommendations of CDC and the U.S. Office of Population Affairs (QFP) establishes standards for providing a core set of preventive services to promote these goals. These services include contraceptive care for persons seeking to prevent or delay pregnancy, pregnancy testing and counseling, basic infertility services for those seeking to achieve pregnancy, sexually transmitted disease (STD) services, and other preconception care and related preventive health services. QFP describes how to provide these services and recommends using family planning and other primary care visits to screen for and offer the full range of these services. This report presents baseline estimates of the use of these preventive services before the publication of QFP that can be used to monitor progress toward improving the quality of preventive care received by women and men of reproductive age.PERIOD COVERED: 2011-2013.DESCRIPTION OF THE SYSTEM: Three surveillance systems were used to document receipt of preventive health services among women and men of reproductive age as recommended in QFP. The National Survey of Family Growth (NSFG) collects data on factors that influence reproductive health in the United States since 1973, with a focus on fertility, sexual activity, contraceptive use, reproductive health care, family formation, child care, and related topics. NSFG uses a stratified, multistage probability sample to produce nationally representative estimates for the U.S. household population of women and men aged 15-44 years. This report uses data from the 2011-2013 NSFG. The Pregnancy Risk Assessment Monitoring System (PRAMS) is an ongoing, state- and population-based surveillance system designed to monitor selected maternal behaviors and experiences that occur before, during, and shortly after pregnancy among women who deliver live-born infants in the United States. Annual PRAMS data sets are created and used to produce statewide estimates of preconception and perinatal health behaviors and experiences. This report uses PRAMS data for 2011-2012 from 11 states (Hawaii, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Jersey, Tennessee, Utah, Vermont, and West Virginia). The National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) is a nationally representative survey of noninstitutionalized civilians in the United States. NHIS collects data on a broad range of health topics, including the prevalence, distribution, and effects of illness and disability and the services rendered for or because of such conditions. Households are identified through a multistage probability household sampling design, and estimates are produced using weights that account for the sampling design, nonresponse, and poststratification adjustments. This report uses data from the 2013 NHIS for women aged 18-44 years.RESULTS: Many preventive health services recommended in QFP were not received by all women and men of reproductive age. For contraceptive services, including contraceptive counseling and advice, 46.5% of women aged 15-44 years at risk for unintended pregnancy received services in the past year, and 4.5% of men who had vaginal intercourse in the past year received services in that year. For sexually transmitted disease (STD) services, among all women aged 15-24 years who had oral, anal, or vaginal sex with an opposite sex partner in the past year, 37.5% were tested for chlamydia in that year. Among persons aged 15-44 years who were at risk because they were not in a mutually monogamous relationship during the past year, 45.3% of women were tested for chlamydia and 32.5% of men were tested for any STD in that year. For preconception care and related preventive health services, data from selected states indicated that 33.2% of women with a recent live birth (i.e., 2-9 months postpartum) talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy; of selected preconception counseling topics, the most frequently discussed was taking vitamins with folic acid before pregnancy (81.2%), followed by achieving a healthy weight before pregnancy (62.9%) and how drinking alcohol (60.3%) or smoking (58.2%) during pregnancy can affect a baby. Nationally, among women aged 18-44 years irrespective of pregnancy status, 80.9% had their blood pressure checked by a health care professional and 31.7% received an influenza vaccine in the past year; 54.5% of those with high blood pressure were tested for diabetes, 44.9% of those with obesity had a health care professional talk with them about their diet, and 55.2% of those who were current smokers had a health professional talk with them about their smoking in the past year. Among all women aged 21-44 years, 81.6% received a Papanicolaou (Pap) test in the past 3 years. Receipt of certain preventive services varied by age and race/ethnicity. Among women with a recent live birth, the percentage of those who talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy increased with age (range: 25.9% and 25.2% for women aged \xe2\x89\xa419 and 20-24 years, respectively, to 35.9% and 37.8% for women aged 25-34 and \xe2\x89\xa535 years, respectively). Among women with a recent live birth, the percentage of those who talked with a health care professional about improving their health before their most recent pregnancy was higher for non-Hispanic white (white) (35.2%) compared with non-Hispanic black (black) (30.0%) and Hispanic (26.0%) women. Conversely, across most STD screening services evaluated, testing was highest among black women and men and lowest among their white counterparts. Receipt of many preventive services recommended in QFP increased consistently across categories of family income and continuity of health insurance coverage. Prevalence of service receipt was highest among women in the highest family income category (>400% of federal poverty level [FPL]) and among women with insurance coverage for each of the following: contraceptive services among women at risk for unintended pregnancy; medical services beyond advice to help achieve pregnancy; vaccinations (hepatitis B and human papillomavirus [HPV], ever; tetanus, past 10 years; influenza, past year); discussions with a health care professional about improving health before pregnancy and taking vitamins with folic acid; blood pressure and diabetes screening; discussions with a health care professional in the past year about diet, among those with obesity; discussions with a health care professional in the past year about smoking, among current smokers; Pap tests within the past 3 years; and mammograms within the past 2 years.INTERPRETATION: Before 2014, many women and men of reproductive age were not receiving several of the preventive services recommended for them in QFP. Although differences existed by age and race/ethnicity, across the range of recommended services, receipt was consistently lower among women and men with lower family income and greater instability in health insurance coverage.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: Information in this report on baseline receipt during 2011-2013 of preventive services for women and men of reproductive age can be used to target improvements in the use of recommended services through the development ofresearch priorities, information for decision makers, and public health practice. Health care administrators and practitioners can use the information to identify subpopulations with the greatest need for preventive services and make informed decisions on resource allocation. Public health researchers can use the information to guide research on the determinants of service use and factors that might increase use of preventive services. Policymakers can use this information to evaluate the impact of policy changes and assess resource needs for effective programs, research, and surveillance on the use of preventive health services for women and men of reproductive age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Population Surveillance#Preventive Health Services#United States#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a hepatic manifestation or precursor of metabolic syndrome, may increase nephrolithiasis, a renal manifestation of insulin resistance, but the prospective association between NAFLD and incident nephrolithiasis has not been evaluated. We examined the association of NAFLD with the development of nephrolithiasis in a large cohort of Korean men and women.METHODS: We performed a cohort study of 208,578 Korean adults who underwent a health checkup examination between January 2002 and December 2014 and were followed-up annually or biennially through December 2014. NAFLD was defined as the presence of fatty liver in the absence of excessive alcohol use or other identifiable causes. Fatty liver and nephrolithiasis were determined based on ultrasonographic findings. We used a parametric Cox model to estimate the adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) of nephrolithiasis according to the presence of NAFLD.RESULTS: During 1,054,887.6 person-year of follow-up, 16,442 participants developed nephrolithiasis. After adjusting for age, center, year of screening exam, smoking status, alcohol intake, physical activity, education level, body mass index, history of hypertension and diabetes, HOMA-IR, uric acid and C-reactive protein, male participants with NAFLD had a significantly increased risk of nephrolithiasis than those without NAFLD (adjusted HR 1.17, 95% CI 1.06-1.30). However, no association between NAFLD and nephrolithiasis was observed in women (adjusted HR 0.97, 95% CI 0.81-1.16).CONCLUSIONS: In this large cohort study of young and middle-aged Koreans, NAFLD was significantly associated with an increased incidence of nephrolithiasis in men but not in women. labels: #Adult#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrolithiasis#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease'
b"Human action recognition using 3D pose data has gained a growing interest in the field of computer robotic interfaces and pattern recognition since the availability of hardware to capture human pose. In this paper, we propose a fast, simple, and powerful method of human action recognition based on human kinematic similarity. The key to this method is that the action descriptor consists of joints position, angular velocity and angular acceleration, which can meet the different individual sizes and eliminate the complex normalization. The angular parameters of joints within a short sliding time window (approximately 5 frames) around the current frame are used to express each pose frame of human action sequence. Moreover, three modified KNN (k-nearest-neighbors algorithm) classifiers are employed in our method: one for achieving the confidence of every frame in the training step, one for estimating the frame label of each descriptor, and one for classifying actions. Additional estimating of the frame's time label makes it possible to address single input frames. This approach can be used on difficult, unsegmented sequences. The proposed method is efficient and can be run in real time. The research shows that many public datasets are irregularly segmented, and a simple method is provided to regularize the datasets. The approach is tested on some challenging datasets such as MSR-Action3D, MSRDailyActivity3D, and UTD-MHAD. The results indicate our method achieves a higher accuracy. labels: #Algorithms#Biomechanical Phenomena#Humans#Pattern Recognition, Automated"
b'BACKGROUND: Asthma is a non-curable but preventable disease, responsible for higher morbidity worldwide. According to recent WHO report, nearly 235 million people are suffering from asthma leading to 383000 deaths in 2015. The burden of asthma morbidity is higher in developed countries and is increasing in developing countries.OBJECTIVE: The present study was aimed at studying the change in prevalence rate of asthma, associated risk factors and estimation of morbidity burden and avoidable cases of asthma in India.METHODS: The second round of Indian Human Development Survey (IHDS-II), 2011-12, was used for the study. For the present study, asthma was defines as ever diagnosed with asthma or having cough with short breath. Multiple-logistic regression was used to identify the possible risk factors associated with prevalence of reporting asthma. Population attributable fractions (PAFs) were computed to estimate the overall and risk factors specific burden of morbidity due to asthma using the extrapolated population of year 2015 using 2011 census.RESULTS: Overall prevalence rate of asthma increased from 41.9 (per 1000 population) in 2004-05 to 54.9 (per 1000 population) in 2011-12. The prevalence rate of reporting asthma was higher in poorer states compared to richer states, and also varied by sub-geographies, with higher prevalence rate in northern states of the country and lower rates in north-eastern states of the country. The odds of reporting asthma was higher for younger and older ages, individual with fewer years of schooling (OR: 1.41; 95% CI: 1.21-1.64) for individual with zero years of schooling compared to those with 11 or more years of schooling, individual from lower economic status, individual living in household using unclean fuels (OR:1.21; 95% CI: 1.08-1.34) and smokers (OR: 1.34; 95% CI: 1.17-1.55) compared to their counterparts. In the year 2015, the overall morbidity burden of asthma was estimated at nearly 65 million and more than 82 thousand deaths were attributed due to asthma. The burden was highest among individuals living in households using solid fuels (firewood~80%, Kerosene~78%). One-third of the cases could be eliminated by minimising the use of any solid fuels. Around 17% of all the asthma cases in population could be attributed to underweight.CONCLUSION: Eliminating the modifiable risk factors could help reduce in huge amount of asthma cases for example by providing education, cessation in smoking, and schemes like Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY), by providing clean fuel (LPG) to poor and vulnerable households. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Asthma#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#India#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Young Adult'
b'The induction of rapid cell death is an effective strategy for plants to restrict biotrophic and hemi-biotrophic pathogens at the infection site. However, activation of cell death comes at a high cost, as dead cells will no longer be available for defense responses nor general metabolic processes. In addition, necrotrophic pathogens that thrive on dead tissue, take advantage of cell death-triggering mechanisms. Mechanisms by which plants solve this conundrum remain described. Here, we identify PLANT SMY2-TYPE ILE-GYF DOMAIN-CONTAINING PROTEIN 1 (PSIG1) and show that PSIG1 helps to restrict cell death induction during pathogen infection. Inactivation of PSIG1 does not result in spontaneous lesions, and enhanced cell death in psig1 mutants is independent of salicylic acid (SA) biosynthesis or reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Moreover, PSIG1 interacts with SMG7, which plays a role in nonsense-mediated RNA decay (NMD), and the smg7-4 mutant allele mimics the cell death phenotype of the psig1 mutants. Intriguingly, the psig1 mutants display enhanced susceptibility to the hemi-biotrophic bacterial pathogen. These findings point to the existence and importance of the SA- and ROS-independent cell death constraining mechanism as a part of the plant immune system. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Carrier Proteins#Cell Death#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Nonsense Mediated mRNA Decay#Plant Diseases#Protein Domains#Reactive Oxygen Species#Salicylic Acid'
b'Host-targeting type IV secretion systems (T4SS) evolved from conjugative T4SS machineries that mediate interbacterial plasmid transfer. However, the origins of effectors secreted by these virulence devices have remained largely elusive. Previous work showed that some effectors exhibit homology to toxins of bacterial toxin-antitoxin modules, but the evolutionary trajectories underlying these ties had not been resolved. We previously reported that FicT toxins of FicTA toxin-antitoxin modules disrupt cellular DNA topology via their enzymatic FIC (filamentation induced by cAMP) domain. Intriguingly, the FIC domain of the FicT toxin VbhT of Bartonella schoenbuchensis is fused to a type IV secretion signal-the BID (Bep intracellular delivery) domain-similar to the Bartonella effector proteins (Beps) that are secreted into eukaryotic host cells via the host-targeting VirB T4SS. In this study, we show that the VbhT toxin is an interbacterial effector protein secreted via the conjugative Vbh T4SS that is closely related to the VirB T4SS and encoded by plasmid pVbh of B. schoenbuchensis. We therefore propose that the Vbh T4SS together with its effector VbhT represent an evolutionary missing link on a path that leads from a regular conjugation system and FicTA toxin-antitoxin modules to the VirB T4SS and the Beps. Intriguingly, phylogenetic analyses revealed that the fusion of FIC and BID domains has probably occurred independently in VbhT and the common ancestor of the Beps, suggesting parallel evolutionary paths. Moreover, several other examples of TA module toxins that are bona fide substrates of conjugative T4SS indicate that their recruitment as interbacterial effectors is prevalent and serves yet unknown biological functions in the context of bacterial conjugation. We propose that the adaptation for interbacterial transfer favors the exaptation of FicT and other TA module toxins as inter-kingdom effectors and may thus constitute an important stepping stone in the evolution of host-targeted effector proteins. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Antitoxins#Bacterial Proteins#Bacterial Secretion Systems#Bacterial Toxins#Bartonella#Bartonella Infections#Conjugation, Genetic#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Plasmids#Sequence Homology#Virulence'
b'BACKGROUND: Lack of surveillance systems and accurate data impede evidence-based decisions on treatment and prevention of enteric fever, caused by Salmonella Typhi/Paratyphi. The WHO coordinates a global Invasive Bacterial-Vaccine Preventable Diseases (IB-VPD) surveillance network but does not monitor enteric fever. We evaluated the feasibility and sustainability of integrating enteric fever surveillance into the ongoing IB-VPD platform.METHODOLOGIES: The IB-VPD surveillance system uses WHO definitions to enroll 2-59 month children hospitalized with possible pneumonia, sepsis or meningitis. We expanded this surveillance system to additionally capture suspect enteric fever cases during 2012-2016, in two WHO sentinel hospitals of Bangladesh, by adding inclusion criteria of fever \xe2\x89\xa5102\xc2\xb0F for \xe2\x89\xa53 days, irrespective of other manifestations. Culture-positive enteric fever cases from in-patient departments (IPD) detected in the hospital laboratories but missed by the expanded surveillance, were also enrolled to assess completion. Costs for this integration were calculated for the additional personnel and resources required.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In the IB-VPD surveillance, 5,185 cases were enrolled; 3% (N = 171/5185) were positive for microbiological growth, of which 55% (94/171) were culture-confirmed cases of enteric fever (85 Typhi and 9 Paratyphi A). The added inclusion criteria for enteric fever enrolled an additional 1,699 cases; 22% (358/1699) were positive, of which 85% (349/358) were enteric fever cases (305 Typhi and 44 Paratyphi A). Laboratory surveillance of in-patients of all ages enrolled 311 additional enteric fever cases (263 Typhi and 48 Paratyphi A); 9% (28/311) were 2-59 m and 91% (283/311)>59 m. Altogether, 754 (94+349+311) culture-confirmed enteric fever cases were found, of which 471 were 2-59 m. Of these 471 cases, 94% (443/471) were identified through the hospital surveillances and 6% (28/471) through laboratory results. Twenty-three percent (170/754) of all cases were children<2 years. Additional cost for the integration was USD 44,974/year, a 27% increase to the IB-VPD annual expenditure.CONCLUSION: In a setting where enteric disease is a substantial public health problem, we could integrate enteric fever surveillance into the standard IB-VPD surveillance platform at a modest cost. labels: #Bangladesh#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Paratyphoid Fever#Public Health Surveillance#Salmonella paratyphi A#Salmonella typhi#Typhoid Fever#Typhoid-Paratyphoid Vaccines#Vaccination#World Health Organization'
b'Schistosomiasis has been of concern to local health authorities for most of the last century, and in spite of a lack of effective chemotherapy, the disease was dealt with quite effectively in many endemic countries by snail control and environmental management [1]. Much of this work was reported in journals prior to the electronic era but, sadly, seems to have been subsequently ignored. For many years, there followed a global hiatus on schistosomiasis control, and much of the local expertise was lost, but many things have changed more recently, mainly with the advent of generic and affordable praziquantel. With the increased availability of this drug, there has been anincreasing interest in readdressing schistosomes as well as other neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). The strategic approach for this had been based almost exclusively on chemotherapy. Recently, however, questions arose about this strategy with evidence that chemotherapy alone was not succeeding [2]. Additional strategies were needed, and the "Towards Elimination of Schistosomiasis" (TES) 2017 Conference in Cameroon stressed an integrated PHASE strategy. This was in line with the WHO-NTD and WHO-AFRO 2014-2020 Regional Strategy on NTDs and directed emphasis on transmission control. Subsequently, this emphasis was discussed in a comprehensive review [3]that stressed the importance of such additions to any elimination programme. In reality, this means focusing on the aquatic snail hosts where and when transmission occurs, defining other risk factors such as water contact and latrine design and identifying improved sanitation and health education as essential components for elimination. For schistosomiasis reduction during the mid-20th century, transmission control was used extensively, but these facts are not well reported. Recent reviews have attempted to cover previous research [4,5], but sadly, they have left major knowledge gaps, particularly from Africa. These omissions also occurred in a recent WHO pamphlet on molluscicides [6]. Sadly, search engines used to retrieve information appear to miss much done by 5 African research institutes active from 1950 to 1990. It seems appropriate to take a look back to a time when fieldwork was a focus of research and transmission control was emphasised. labels: #Africa#Animals#Congresses as Topic#Disease Eradication#Disease Vectors#Humans#Molluscacides#Neglected Diseases#Praziquantel#Sanitation#Schistosomiasis#Snails#World Health Organization#Zimbabwe'
b'BACKGROUND: Most studies showing a volume outcome effect in resection surgery for oesophago-gastric cancer were conducted before the centralisation of clinical services. This study evaluated the relation between hospital- and surgeon volume and different risk-adjusted outcomes after oesophago-gastric (OG) cancer surgery in England between 2011 and 2013.METHODS: In data from the National Oesophago-Gastric Cancer Audit from the UK, multivariable random-effects logistic regression models were used to quantify the effect of surgeon and hospital volume on three outcomes: 30-day and 90-day mortality and anastomotic leakage. The models included patient risk factors to adjust for differences in case-mix among hospitals and surgeons. The between-cluster heterogeneity was estimated with the median odds ratio (MOR).RESULTS: The study included patients treated at 42 hospitals and 329 surgeons. The median (interquartile range) of the annual hospital and surgeon volumes were 110 patients (82 to 137) and 13 patients (8 to 19), respectively. The overall rates for 30-day and 90-day mortality were 2.3% and 4.4% respectively, and the anastomotic leakage was 6.3%. Higher hospital volume was associated with lower 30-day mortality (OR: 0.94; 95% CI: 0.91-0.98) and lower anastomotic leakage rates (OR: 0.96; 95% CI: 0.93-0.98) but not 90-day mortality. Higher surgeon volume was only associated with lower anastomotic leakage rates (OR: 0.81; 95% CI: 0.72-0.92). Hospital volume explained a part of the between-hospital variation in 30-day mortality whereas surgeon volume explained part of the between-hospital variation in anastomotic leakage.CONCLUSIONS: In the setting of centralized O-G cancer surgery in England, we could still observe an effect of volume on short-term outcomes. However, the effect is inconsistent, depending on the type of outcome measure under consideration, and much smaller than in previous studies. Efforts to centralise O-G cancer services further should carefully address the effects of both hospital and surgeon volume on the range of outcome measures that are relevant to patients. labels: #Aged#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Stomach Neoplasms'
b"BACKGROUND: Barrett's esophagus (BE) and esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) are far more prevalent in European Americans than in African Americans. Hypothesizing that this racial disparity in prevalence might represent a genetic susceptibility, we used an admixture mapping approach to interrogate disease association with genomic differences between European and African ancestry.METHODS: Formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples were identified from 54 African Americans with BE or EAC through review of surgical pathology databases at participating Barrett's Esophagus Translational Research Network (BETRNet) institutions. DNA was extracted from normal tissue, and genotyped on the Illumina OmniQuad SNP chip. Case-only admixture mapping analysis was performed on the data from both all 54 cases and also on a subset of 28 cases with high genotyping quality. Haplotype phases were inferred with Beagle 3.3.2, and local African and European ancestries were inferred with SABER plus. Disease association was tested by estimating and testing excess European ancestry and contrasting it to excess African ancestry.RESULTS: Both datasets, the 54 cases and the 28 cases, identified two admixture regions. An association of excess European ancestry on chromosome 11p reached a 5% genome-wide significance threshold, corresponding to -log10(P) = 4.28. A second peak on chromosome 8q reached -log10(P) = 2.73. The converse analysis examining excess African ancestry found no genetic regions with significant excess African ancestry associated with BE and EAC. On average, the regions on chromosomes 8q and 11p showed excess European ancestry of 15% and 20%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Chromosomal regions on 11p15 and 8q22-24 are associated with excess European ancestry in African Americans with BE and EAC. Because GWAS have not reported any variants in these two regions, low frequency and/or rare disease associated variants that confer susceptibility to developing BE and EAC may be driving the observed European ancestry association evidence. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#African Americans#Barrett Esophagus#Esophageal Neoplasms#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans"
b"Maleic acid (MA), an intermediate reagent used in many industrial products, instigated public health concerns in Taiwan when it was used to adulterate an array of starch-based delicacies to improve texture and storage time. Established studies reported that exposure to high concentrations of MA induce renal injury; little is known whether oxidative stress is induced at a relative low dose. This study aims to investigate the effect of oral single dose exposure of MA on the status of oxidative stress and inflammation. Single dose of MA at 0, 6 and 60 mg/kg (control, low- and high-dose groups, respectively) were orally administered to adult male and female rats. Urine samples were collected and analyzed to measure 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), 8-iso-prostaglandin F2\xce\xb1 (8-IsoPGF2\xce\xb1), 8-nitroguanine (8-NO2Gua) and N-acetyl-S-(tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-2-pentyl-3-furanyl)-L-cysteine (HNE-MA) using LC-MS/MS. Results revealed that oral consumption of MA induced oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation, as demonstrated by the statistically significant increases in urinary levels of 8-NO2Gua, 8-OHdG, and 8-isoPGF2\xce\xb1, in high-dosed male rats within 12 h of oral gavage (p<0.05). Additionally, increases in concentration of these biomarkers persist for days after consumption; male rats appear to be more sensitive to oxidative burden compared to their counterparts. The aforementioned findings could help elucidate the mechanisms through which nephrotoxicity occur. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Body Weight#DNA Damage#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Inflammation#Male#Maleates#Oxidative Stress#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley"
b'Merging paired-end shotgun reads generated on high-throughput sequencing platforms can substantially improve various subsequent bioinformatics processes, including genome assembly, binning, mapping, annotation, and clustering for taxonomic analysis. With the inexorable growth of sequence data volume and CPU core counts, the speed and scalability of read-processing tools becomes ever-more important. The accuracy of shotgun read merging is crucial as well, as errors introduced by incorrect merging percolate through to reduce the quality of downstream analysis. Thus, we designed a new tool to maximize accuracy and minimize processing time, allowing the use of read merging on larger datasets, and in analyses highly sensitive to errors. We present BBMerge, a new merging tool for paired-end shotgun sequence data. We benchmark BBMerge by comparison with eight other widely used merging tools, assessing speed, accuracy and scalability. Evaluations of both synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that BBMerge produces merged shotgun reads with greater accuracy and at higher speed than any existing merging tool examined. BBMerge also provides the ability to merge non-overlapping shotgun read pairs by using k-mer frequency information to assemble the unsequenced gap between reads, achieving a significantly higher merge rate while maintaining or increasing accuracy. labels: #Algorithms#Computational Biology#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing'
b'INTRODUCTION: Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT), a disease caused by protozoan parasites transmitted by tsetse flies, is an important neglected tropical disease endemic in remote regions of sub-Saharan Africa. Although the determination of the burden of HAT has been based on incidence, mortality and morbidity rates, the true burden of HAT goes beyond these metrics. This study sought to establish the socio-economic burden that households with HAT faced and the coping strategies they employed to deal with the increased burden.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A mixed methods approach was used and data were obtained through: review of hospital records; structured interviews (152); key informant interviews (11); case narratives (12) and focus group discussions (15) with participants drawn from sleeping sickness patients in the south western HAT foci in Kenya. Quantitative data were analysed using descriptive statistics while qualitative data was analysed based on emerging themes.RESULTS: Socio-economic impacts included, disruption of daily activities, food insecurity, neglect of homestead, poor academic performance/school drop-outs and death. Delayed diagnosis of HAT caused 93% of the affected households to experience an increase in financial expenditure (ranging from US$ 60-170) in seeking treatment. Out of these, 81.5% experienced difficulties in raising money for treatment resorting to various ways of raising it. The coping strategies employed to deal with the increased financial expenditure included: sale of agricultural produce (64%); seeking assistance from family and friends (54%); sale/lease of family assets (22%); seeking credit (22%) and use of personal savings (17%).CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION: Coping strategies outlined in this study impacted negatively on the affected households leading to further food insecurity and impoverishment. Calculation of the true burden of disease needs to go beyond incidence, mortality and morbidity rates to capture socio-economic variables entailed in seeking treatment and coping strategies of HAT affected households. labels: #Cost of Illness#Family Characteristics#Food Supply#Health Expenditures#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Kenya#Socioeconomic Factors#Trypanosomiasis, African'
b'BACKGROUND: Yaws is a non-venereal treponemal infection caused by Treponema pallidum subspecies pertenue. The disease is targeted by WHO for eradication by 2020. Rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) are envisaged for confirmation of clinical cases during treatment campaigns and for certification of the interruption of transmission. Yaws testing requires both treponemal (trep) and non-treponemal (non-trep) assays for diagnosis of current infection. We evaluate a sequential testing strategy (using a treponemal RDT before a trep/non-trep RDT) in terms of cost and cost-effectiveness, relative to a single-assay combined testing strategy (using the trep/non-trep RDT alone), for two use cases: individual diagnosis and community surveillance.METHODS: We use cohort decision analysis to examine the diagnostic and cost outcomes. We estimate cost and cost-effectiveness of the alternative testing strategies at different levels of prevalence of past/current infection and current infection under each use case. We take the perspective of the global yaws eradication programme. We calculate the total number of correct diagnoses for each strategy over a range of plausible prevalences. We employ probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) to account for uncertainty and report 95% intervals.RESULTS: At current prices of the treponemal and trep/non-trep RDTs, the sequential strategy is cost-saving for individual diagnosis at prevalence of past/current infection less than 85% (81-90); it is cost-saving for surveillance at less than 100%. The threshold price of the trep/non-trep RDT (below which the sequential strategy would no longer be cost-saving) is US$ 1.08 (1.02-1.14) for individual diagnosis at high prevalence of past/current infection (51%) and US$ 0.54 (0.52-0.56) for community surveillance at low prevalence (15%).DISCUSSION: We find that the sequential strategy is cost-saving for both diagnosis and surveillance in most relevant settings. In the absence of evidence assessing relative performance (sensitivity and specificity), cost-effectiveness is uncertain. However, the conditions under which the combined test only strategy might be more cost-effective than the sequential strategy are limited. A cheaper trep/non-trep RDT is needed, costing no more than US$ 0.50-1.00, depending on the use case. Our results will help enhance the cost-effectiveness of yaws programmes in the 13 countries known to be currently endemic. It will also inform efforts in the much larger group of 71 countries with a history of yaws, many of which will have to undertake surveillance to confirm the interruption of transmission. labels: #Cohort Studies#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Diagnostic Techniques and Procedures#Disease Eradication#Epidemiological Monitoring#Humans#Prevalence#Sensitivity and Specificity#Treponema pallidum#Yaws'
b'The thalamus plays a critical role in the genesis of thalamocortical oscillations, yet the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To understand whether the isolated thalamus can generate multiple distinct oscillations, we developed a biophysical thalamic model to test the hypothesis that generation of and transition between distinct thalamic oscillations can be explained as a function of neuromodulation by acetylcholine (ACh) and norepinephrine (NE) and afferent synaptic excitation. Indeed, the model exhibited four distinct thalamic rhythms (delta, sleep spindle, alpha and gamma oscillations) that span the physiological states corresponding to different arousal levels from deep sleep to focused attention. Our simulation results indicate that generation of these distinct thalamic oscillations is a result of both intrinsic oscillatory cellular properties and specific network connectivity patterns. We then systematically varied the ACh/NE and input levels to generate a complete map of the different oscillatory states and their transitions. Lastly, we applied periodic stimulation to the thalamic network and found that entrainment of thalamic oscillations is highly state-dependent. Our results support the hypothesis that ACh/NE modulation and afferent excitation define thalamic oscillatory states and their response to brain stimulation. Our model proposes a broader and more central role of the thalamus in the genesis of multiple distinct thalamo-cortical rhythms than previously assumed. labels: #Acetylcholine#Biological Clocks#Computer Simulation#Deep Brain Stimulation#Feedback, Physiological#Humans#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Neurotransmitter Agents#Norepinephrine#Oscillometry#Synaptic Transmission#Thalamus'
b'African lungfishes are ammonotelic in water. They can aestivate for long periods on land during drought. During aestivation, the gills are covered with dried mucus and ammonia excretion ceases. In fishes, ammonia excretion through the gills involves Rhesus glycoproteins (RhGP/Rhgp). This study aimed to obtain the complete cDNA coding sequences of rhgp from the gills of Protopterus annectens, and to determine their branchial mRNA and protein expression levels during the induction, maintenance and arousal phases of aestivation. Three isoforms of rhgp (rhag, rhbg and rhcg) were obtained in the gills of P. annectens. Their complete cDNA coding sequences ranged between 1311 and 1398 bp, coding for 436 to 465 amino acids with estimated molecular masses between 46.8 and 50.9 kDa. Dendrogramic analyses indicated that Rhag was grouped closer to fishes, while Rhbg and Rhcg were grouped closer to tetrapods. During the induction phase, the protein abundance of Rhag, but not its transcript level, was down-regulated in the gills, suggesting that there could be a decrease in the release of ammonia from the erythrocytes to the plasma. Furthermore, the branchial transcript levels of rhbg and rhcg decreased significantly, in preparation for the subsequent shutdown of gill functions. During the maintenance phase, the branchial expression levels of rhag/Rhag, rhbg/Rhbg and rhcg/Rhcg decreased significantly, indicating that their transcription and translation were down-regulated. This could be part of an overall mechanism to shut down branchial functions and save metabolic energy used for transcription and translation. It could also be regarded as an adaptive response to stop ammonia excretion. During the arousal phase, it is essential for the lungfish to regain the ability to excrete ammonia. Indeed, the protein abundance of Rhag, Rhbg and Rhcg recovered to the corresponding control levels after 1 day or 3 days of recovery from 6 months of aestivation. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Down-Regulation#Fishes#Gills#Glycoproteins#RNA, Messenger#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid'
b'The pathophysiology and natural history of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) are poorly understood. Consequently, our approaches to treatment of POP are limited. Alterations in the extracellular matrix components of pelvic support ligaments and vaginal tissue, including collagen and elastin, have been associated with the development of POP in animals and women. Prior studies have shown the protease MMP-9, a key player of ECM degradation, is upregulated in vaginal tissues from both mice and women with POP. On the other hand, fibulin-5, an elastogenic organizer, has been found to inhibit MMP-9 in the vaginal wall. Hence, we hypothesized that prolonged release of fibulin-5 may delay progression of POP. To test the hypothesis, oligo (ethylene glycol)-based thermosensitive hydrogels were fabricated, characterized and then used to deliver fibulin-5 to the vaginal wall and inhibit MMP-9 activity. The results indicate that hydrogels are cell and tissue compatible. The hydrogels also prolong the \xc2\xbd life of fibulin-5 in cultured vaginal fibroblasts and in the vaginal wall in vivo. Finally, fibulin-5-containing hydrogels resulted in incorporation of fibulin-5 into the vaginal matrix and inhibition of MMP-9 for several weeks after injection. These results support the idea of fibulin-5 releasing hydrogel being developed as a new treatment for POP. labels: #Animals#Female#Hydrogels#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Proteins#Vagina'
b'Cooking oil waste leads to well-known environmental impacts and its bioremediation by lipase-based enzymatic activity can minimize the high cytotoxic potential. In addition, they are among the biocatalysts most commercialized worldwide due to the versatility of reactions and substrates. However, although lipases are able to process cooking oil wastes, the products generated from this process do not necessarily become less toxic. Thus, the aim of the current study is to analyze the bioremediation of lipase-catalyzed cooking oil wastes, as well as their effect on the cytotoxicity of both the oil and its waste before and after enzymatic treatment. Thus, assessed the post-frying modification in soybean oil and in its waste, which was caused by hydrolysis reaction catalyzed by commercial and home-made lipases. The presence of lipases in the extracts obtained from orange wastes was identified by zymography. The profile of the fatty acid esters formed after these reactions was detected and quantified through gas chromatography and fatty acids profile compared through multivariate statistical analyses. Finally, the soybean oil and its waste, with and without enzymatic treatment, were assessed for toxicity in cytotoxicity assays conducted in vitro using fibroblast cell culture. The soybean oil wastes treated with core and frit lipases through transesterification reaction were less toxic than the untreated oils, thus confirming that cooking oil wastes can be bioremediated using orange lipases. labels: #Biodegradation, Environmental#Cooking#Esterification#Lipase#Soybean Oil'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess whether strain histograms are equal to strain ratios in predicting breast tumour malignancy and to see if either could be used to upgrade Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) 3 tumours for immediate biopsy.METHODS: Ninety-nine breast tumours were examined using B-mode BI-RADS scorings and strain elastography. Strain histograms and ratios were assessed, and areas- under-the-receiver-operating-characteristic-curve (AUROC) for each method calculated. In BI-RADS 3 tumours cut-offs for strain histogram and ratio values were calculated to see if some tumours could be upgraded for immediate biopsy. Linear regression was performed to evaluate the effect of tumour depth and size, and breast density on strain elastography.RESULTS: Forty-four of 99 (44.4%) tumours were malignant. AUROC of BI-RADS, strain histograms and strain ratios were 0.949, 0.830 and 0.794 respectively. There was no significant difference between AUROCs of strain histograms and strain ratios (P = 0.405), while they were both inferior to BI-RADS scoring (P<0.001, P = 0.008). Four out of 26 BI-RADS 3 tumours were malignant. When cut-offs of 189 for strain histograms and 1.44 for strain ratios were used to upgrade BI-RADS 3 tumours, AUROCS were 0.961 (Strain histograms and BI-RADS) and 0.941 (Strain ratios and BI-RADS). None of them was significantly different from BI-RADS scoring alone (P = 0.249 and P = 0.414). Tumour size and depth, and breast density influenced neither strain histograms (P = 0.196, P = 0.115 and P = 0.321) nor strain ratios (P = 0.411, P = 0.596 and P = 0.321).CONCLUSION: Strain histogram analyses are reliable and easy to do in breast cancer diagnosis and perform comparably to strain ratio analyses. No significant difference in AUROCs between BI-RADS scoring and elastography combined with BI-RADS scoring was found in this study. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged, 80 and over#Breast Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Mammography#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The entomopathogenic mushroom Cordyceps militaris is an important medicinal and food resource owing to its various medicinal components and pharmacological effects. However, the high frequency of strain degeneration during subculture seriously restricts the large-scale production of C. militaris, and the mechanism underlying strain degeneration remains unclear. In this study, we artificially cultured C. militaris for six generations and compared changes during fruiting body growth. The transcriptome of six generations of C. militaris strains were sequenced with the Illumine Hiseq4000.RESULTS: The subcultured C. militaris strains degenerated beginning at the third generation, with incomplete fruiting body growth beginning at the fourth generation. Over 9,015 unigenes and 731 new genes were identified. In addition, 35,323 alternative splicing (AS) events were detected in all samples, and more AS events occurred in the second, fourth and sixth generations. Compared with the first generation, the third generation (degenerated strain) included 2,498 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) including 1,729 up-regulated and 769 down-regulated genes. This number was higher than the number of DEGs in the second (1,892 DEGs), fourth (2,006 DEGs), fifth (2,273 DEGs) and sixth (2,188 DEGs) generations. Validation of RNA-seq by qRT-PCR showed that the expression patterns of 51 DEGs were in accordance with the transcriptome data.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the mechanism of C. militaris strain degeneration is associated with gene involved in toxin biosynthesis, energy metabolism, and DNA methylation and chromosome remodeling. labels: #Cordyceps#Gene Expression Regulation, Fungal#Genes, Fungal#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Transcriptome'
b'Hemogenic endothelium (HE) undergoes endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT) to generate blood, a process that requires progressive down-regulation of endothelial genes and induction of hematopoietic ones. Previously, we have shown that the transcription factor HoxA3 prevents blood formation by inhibiting Runx1 expression, maintaining endothelial gene expression and thus blocking EHT. In the present study, we show that HoxA3 also prevents blood formation by inhibiting Notch pathway. HoxA3 induced upregulation of Jag1 ligand in endothelial cells, which led to cis-inhibition of the Notch pathway, rendering the HE nonresponsive to Notch signals. While Notch activation alone was insufficient to promote blood formation in the presence of HoxA3, activation of Notch or downregulation of Jag1 resulted in a loss of the endothelial phenotype which is a prerequisite for EHT. Taken together, these results demonstrate that Notch pathway activation is necessary to downregulate endothelial markers during EHT. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Endothelial Cells#Hematopoiesis#Homeodomain Proteins#Jagged-1 Protein#Mice#Receptors, Notch#Signal Transduction'
b'Asthma is a chronic airway inflammation with a potential systemic impact. Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory artery disease. The aim of our study was to prove if there is a correlation between the occurrence of asthma and increased atherosclerotic vessel disorders. Vessel status was compared between mild-to-moderate, severe allergic asthma and matched controls. Measurements of artery stiffness were calculated by central pulse wave velocity, ultrasonographic strain imaging and ankle-brachial index. Atherosclerotic plaque burden was assessed by colour-coded duplex sonography. Additionally, analysis of cardiovascular and asthma blood markers was conducted. Arterial stiffness expressed as an increased central pulse wave velocity and decreased circumferential and radial strains as well as the prevalence of media sclerosis were significantly higher among asthma patients compared to controls. Atherosclerotic plaque burden was relevantly increased in asthma groups vs. controls (severe asthma: 43.1%, mild-to-moderate asthma: 25.0%, control: 14.3% of study participants). Except for the elevated IgE and fibrinogen concentrations as well as leukocyte number there were no relevant differences in the blood parameters between the groups. Allergic asthma is associated with distinct atherosclerotic artery changes compared to the respectively matched control collective. The severity of asthma correlates with more pronounced pathological vessel alternations. labels: #Adult#Arteries#Asthma#Atherosclerosis#Biomarkers#Female#Fibrinogen#Humans#Immunoglobulin E#Leukocyte Count#Male#Middle Aged#Pulse Wave Analysis#Ultrasonography, Doppler, Duplex'
b'The net form of net blotch caused by the necrotrophic fungus Pyrenophora teres f. teres is a major disease of barley, causing high yield losses and reduced malting and feed quality. Exploiting the allelic richness of wild barley proved to be a valuable tool to broaden the genetic base of resistance of modern elite cultivars. In this study, a SNP-based nested association mapping (NAM) study was conducted to map QTL for P. teres resistance in the barley population HEB-25 comprising 1,420 lines derived from BC1S3 generation. By scoring the percentage of infected leaf area followed by calculation of the average ordinate (AO) and scoring of the reaction type (RT) in two-year field trials a large variability of net blotch resistance across and within families of HEB-25 was observed. Genotype response to net blotch infection showed a range of 48.2% for AO (0.9-49.1%) and 6.4 for RT (2.2-8.6). NAM based on 5,715 informative SNPs resulted in the identification of 24 QTL for resistance against net blotch. Out of these, six QTL are considered novel showing no correspondence to previously reported QTL for net blotch resistance. Overall, variation of net blotch resistance in HEB-25 turned out to be controlled by small effect QTL. Results indicate the presence of alleles in HEB-25 differing in their effect on net blotch resistance. Results provide valuable information regarding the genetic architecture of the complex barley-P. teres f. teres interaction as well as for the improvement of net blotch resistance of elite barley cultivars. labels: #Ascomycota#Disease Resistance#Genotype#Hordeum#Plant Diseases#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b'BACKGROUND: Individuals with schizophrenia who are involuntarily admitted may have poorer prognosis, including higher readmission rates, than those voluntarily admitted. However, little is known about the risk factors for readmission in those schizophrenia patients who are involuntarily admitted.AIMS: We aim to explore the risk factors for readmission in this population.METHOD: We enrolled 138 schizophrenia patients with involuntary admission from July 2008 to June 2013 and followed those patients for readmission outcomes at 3 months and at 1 year.RESULTS: The one-year and 3-months readmission rates were 33.3% and 15.2%, respectively. Unmarried status (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) = 6.28, 95% CI: 1.48-26.62), previous history of involuntary admission (aOR = 4.08, 95% CI: 1.19-14.02), longer involuntary admission days (aOR = 1.04, 95% CI: 1.01-1.07) and shorter total admission days (aOR = 1.03, 95% CI: 1.01-1.05) were associated with increased risk for 1-year readmission. Younger age (aOR = 1.10, 95% CI 1.02-1.18) was associated with increased risk for 3-months readmission.CONCLUSIONS: Unmarried status, prior history of involuntary admission, longer involuntary admission days and shorter total admission days were associated with increased risk for 1-year readmission. Healthcare providers may need to focus on patients with these risk factors to reduce subsequent readmissions. labels: #Adult#Commitment of Mentally Ill#Female#Humans#Male#Patient Readmission#Risk Factors#Schizophrenia#Socioeconomic Factors#Taiwan#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: The weaning pig is used as an experimental model to assess the impact of diet on intestinal health. Blood parameters (BP) are considered a useful tool in humans, but there is very scarce information of such indicators in the weaning pig. The objective of the present study is to evaluate the use of different BP as indicators in an experimental model of salmonellosis.METHODOLOGY: Seventy-two 28-day-old piglets were divided into four groups in a 2x2 factorial arrangement, with animals receiving or not a probiotic combination based on B. infantis IM1\xc2\xae and B. lactis BPL6 (109 colony forming units (cfu)/d) and orally challenged or not a week later with Salmonella Typhimurium (5x108 cfu). Blood samples of one animal per pen (N = 24) were taken four days post-inoculation for the evaluation of different BP using an I-stat\xc2\xae System and of plasmatic concentrations of zinc, iron and copper.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Results reported marginal deficiencies of zinc in piglets at weaning. Moreover, plasmatic zinc, copper and iron presented good correlations with weight gain (r 0.57, r -0.67, r 0.54 respectively; P<0.01). Blood electrolytes (Na+, Cl- and K+) decreased (P<0.01) only when the performance of the animals was seriously compromised and clinical symptoms were more apparent. Acid-base balance parameters such as HCO3-, TCO2 and BEecf significantly correlated with weight gain, but only in the challenged animals (r -0.54, r -0.55, and r -0.51, respectively; P<0.05), suggesting metabolic acidosis depending on Salmonella infection. Glucose was affected by the challenge (P = 0.040), while Htc and Hgb increased with the challenge and decreased with the probiotic (P<0.05). Furthermore, correlations of Glu, Htc and Hgb with weight gain were observed (P<0.05). Overall, BP could be regarded as simple, useful indexes to assess performance and health of weaning piglets. labels: #Acid-Base Equilibrium#Animals#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Disease Models, Animal#Metals#Salmonella#Salmonella Infections#Swine#Swine Diseases'
b'The question of withdrawing artificial nutrition and hydration from people in a permanent vegetative state sparks considerable ethical and legal debate. Therefore, understanding the elements that influence such a decision is crucial. However, exploring perceptions of artificial nutrition and hydration is methodologically challenging for several reasons. First, because of the emotional state of the professionals and family members, who are facing an extremely distressing situation; second, because this question mirrors representations linked to a deep-rooted fear of dying of hunger and thirst; and third, because of taboos surrounding death. We sought to determine the best method to explore such complex situations in depth. This article aims to assess the relevance of the photo-elicitation interview method to analyze the perceptions and attitudes of health professionals and families of people in a permanent vegetative state regarding artificial nutrition and hydration. The photo-elicitation interview method consists in inserting one or more photographs into a research interview. An original set of 60 photos was built using Google Images and participants were asked to choose photos (10 maximum) and talk about them. The situations of 32 patients were explored in 23 dedicated centers for people in permanent vegetative state across France. In total, 138 interviews were conducted with health professionals and family members. We found that the photo-elicitation interview method 1) was well accepted by the participants and allowed them to express their emotions constructively, 2) fostered narration, reflexivity and introspection, 3) offered a sufficient "unusual angle" to allow participants to go beyond stereotypes and habits of thinking, and 4) can be replicated in other research areas. The use of visual methods currently constitutes an expanding area of research and this study stressed that this is of special interest to enhance research among populations facing end-of-life and ethical issues. labels: #Caregivers#Family#Female#Humans#Male#Parenteral Nutrition#Perception#Persistent Vegetative State#Photography#Physicians'
b'We conducted two studies of circadian misalignment in non-Hispanic African and European-Americans. In the first, the sleep/wake (light/dark) schedule was advanced 9 h, similar to flying east, and in the second these schedules were delayed 9 h, similar to flying west or sleeping during the day after night work. We confirmed that the free-running circadian period is shorter in African-Americans compared to European-Americans, and found differences in the magnitude and direction of circadian rhythm phase shifts which were related to the circadian period. The sleep and cognitive performance data from the first study (published in this journal) documented the impairment in both ancestry groups due to this extreme circadian misalignment. African-Americans slept less and performed slightly worse during advanced/misaligned days than European-Americans. The current analysis is of sleep and cognitive performance from the second study. Participants were 23 African-Americans and 22 European-Americans (aged 18-44 years). Following four baseline days (8 h time in bed, based on habitual sleep), the sleep/wake schedule was delayed by 9 h for three days. Sleep was monitored using actigraphy. During the last two baseline/aligned days and the first two delayed/misaligned days, beginning 2 h after waking, cognitive performance was assessed every 3 h using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) battery. Mixed model ANOVAs assessed the effects of ancestry (African-American or European-American) and condition (baseline/aligned or delayed/misaligned) on sleep and performance. There was decreased sleep and impaired cognitive performance in both ancestry groups during the two delayed/misaligned days relative to baseline/aligned days. Sleep and cognitive performance did not differ between African-Americans and European-Americans during either baseline/aligned or delayed/misaligned days. While our previous work showed that an advance in the sleep/wake schedule impaired the sleep of African-Americans more than European-Americans, delaying the sleep/wake schedule impaired the sleep and cognitive performance of African-Americans and European-Americans equally. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#African Americans#Circadian Rhythm#Cognition#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Humans#Male#Sleep#Wakefulness'
b'Here we made an attempt to obtain partial structural information on the topology of multispan integral membrane proteins of yeast by isolating organellar membranes, removing peripheral membrane proteins at pH 11.5 and introducing chemical crosslinks between vicinal amino acids either using homo- or hetero-bifunctional crosslinkers. Proteins were digested with specific proteases and the products analysed by mass spectrometry. Dedicated software tools were used together with filtering steps optimized to remove false positive crosslinks. In proteins of known structure, crosslinks were found only between loops residing on the same side of the membrane. As may be expected, crosslinks were mainly found in very abundant proteins. Our approach seems to hold to promise to yield low resolution topological information for naturally very abundant or strongly overexpressed proteins with relatively little effort. Here, we report novel XL-MS-based topology data for 17 integral membrane proteins (Akr1p, Fks1p, Gas1p, Ggc1p, Gpt2p, Ifa38p, Ist2p, Lag1p, Pet9p, Pma1p, Por1p, Sct1p, Sec61p, Slc1p, Spf1p, Vph1p, Ybt1p). labels: #Cross-Linking Reagents#Mass Spectrometry#Membrane Proteins#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'Tmprss6-mutated mask mice display iron deficiency anemia and high expression of hepcidin. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of erythropoietin administration on proteins participating in the control of iron homeostasis in the liver and spleen in C57BL/6 and mask mice. Administration of erythropoietin for four days at 50 IU/mouse/day increased hemoglobin and hematocrit in C57BL/6 mice, no such increase was seen in mask mice. Erythropoietin administration decreased hepcidin expression in C57BL/6 mice, but not in mask mice. Erythropoietin treatment significantly increased the spleen size in both C57BL/6 and mask mice. Furthermore, erythropoietin administration increased splenic Fam132b, Fam132a and Tfr2 mRNA content. At the protein level, erythropoietin increased the amount of splenic erythroferrone and transferrin receptor 2 both in C57BL/6 and mask mice. Splenic ferroportin content was decreased in erythropoietin-treated mask mice in comparison with erythropoietin-treated C57BL/6 mice. In mask mice, the amount of liver hemojuvelin was decreased in comparison with C57BL/6 mice. The pattern of hemojuvelin cleavage was different between C57BL/6 and mask mice: In both groups, a main hemojuvelin band was detected at approximately 52 kDa; in C57BL/6 mice, a minor cleaved band was seen at 47 kDa. In mask mice, the 47 kDa band was absent, but additional minor bands were detected at approximately 45 kDa and 48 kDa. The results provide support for the interaction between TMPRSS6 and hemojuvelin in vivo; they also suggest that hemojuvelin could be cleaved by another as yet unknown protease in the absence of functional TMPRSS6. The lack of effect of erythropoietin on hepcidin expression in mask mice can not be explained by changes in erythroferrone synthesis, as splenic erythroferrone content increased after erythropoietin administration in both C57BL/6 and mask mice. labels: #Animals#Cytokines#Erythropoietin#Gene Expression Regulation#Hepcidins#Iron#Liver#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Mutant Strains#Muscle Proteins#Organ Size#RNA-Binding Proteins#Serine Endopeptidases#Spleen'
b'Presently, climate change has increased the frequency of extreme meteorological events such as tropical cyclones. In the western Pacific basin, these cyclones are called typhoons, and in this area, around Taiwan Island, their frequency has almost doubled since 2000. When approaching landmasses, typhoons have devastating effects on coastal vegetation. The increased frequency of these events has challenged the survival of coastal plant species and their posttyphoon recovery. In this study, a population of coastal gynodioecious Ficus pedunculosa var. mearnsii (Mearns fig) was surveyed for two years to investigate its recovery after Typhoon Morakot, which occurred in August 2009. Similar to all the Ficus species, the Mearns fig has an obligate mutualistic association with pollinating fig wasp species, which requires syconia (the closed Ficus inflorescence) to complete its life cycle. Moreover, male gynodioecious fig species produces both pollen and pollen vectors, whereas the female counterpart produces only seeds. The recovery of the Mearns fig was observed to be rapid, with the production of both leaves and syconia. The syconium:leaf ratio was greater for male trees than for female trees, indicating the importance of syconium production for the wasp survival. Pollinating wasps live for approximately 1 day; therefore, receptive syconia are crucial. Every typhoon season, few typhoons pass by the coasts where the Mearns fig grows, destroying all the leaves and syconia. In this paper, we highlight the potential diminution of the fig population that can lead to the extinction of the mutualistic pair of species. The effects of climate change on coastal species warrant wider surveys. labels: #Animals#Climate Change#Cyclonic Storms#Ficus#Models, Biological#Pollination#Taiwan#Wasps'
b'We developed new quantitative palaeoclimatic inference models based on the body-size structure of mammal faunas from the Old World tropics and applied them to the Somosaguas fossil site (middle Miocene, central Iberian Peninsula). Twenty-six mammal species have been described at this site, including proboscideans, ungulates, carnivores, insectivores, lagomorphs and rodents. Our analyses were based on multivariate and bivariate regression models correlating climatic data and body-size structure of 63 modern mammal assemblages from Sub-Saharan Africa and the Indian subcontinent. The results showed an average temperature of the coldest month higher than 26\xc2\xb0C for the Somosaguas fossil site, a mean annual thermal amplitude around 10\xc2\xb0C, a drought length of 10 months, and an annual total precipitation greater than 200 mm per year, which are climate conditions typical of an ecotonal zone between the savanna and desert biomes. These results are congruent with the aridity peaks described over the middle Aragonian of Spain and particularly in the local biozone E, which includes Somosaguas. The aridity increase detected in this biozone is associated with the Middle Miocene Global Cooling Event. The environment of Somosaguas around 14 Ma was similar to the current environment in the Sahel region of North Africa, the Horn of Africa, the boundary area between the Kalahari and the Namib in Southern Africa, south-central Arabia, or eastern Pakistan and northwestern India. The distribution of modern vegetation in these regions follows a complex mosaic of plant communities, dominated by scattered xerophilous shrublands, semidesert grasslands, and vegetation linked to seasonal watercourses and ponds. labels: #Animals#Body Size#Desert Climate#Fossils#Mammals#Spain'
b'Porcine circovirus-associated disease is caused by porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) infection, which targets iliac artery endothelial cells (PIECs); it leads to severe immunopathologies and is associated with major economic losses in the porcine industry. Here, we report that in vitro PCV2 infection of PIECs causes cell injury, which affects DC function as well as adaptive immunity. Specifically, PCV2 infection downregulated PIEC antigen-presenting molecule expression, upregulated cytokines involved in the immune and inflammatory response causing cell damage and repair, and altered the migratory capacity of PIECs. In addition, PCV2-infected PIECs inhibited DC maturation, enhanced the endocytic ability of DCs, and weakened the stimulatory effect of DCs on T lymphocytes. Together, these findings indicate that profound functional impairment of DCs in the presence of PCV2-infected PIECs may be a potential pathogenic mechanism associated with PCV2-induced porcine disease. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Circoviridae Infections#Circovirus#Cytokines#Dendritic Cells#Endothelial Cells#Iliac Artery#Monocytes#Swine#T-Lymphocytes'
b'Plasma levels of FGF23 are increased in patients with chronic kidney disease. Beside its role in phosphate homeostasis, iron deficiency and anemia are associated with increased FGF23 plasma levels. Recently, FGF23 plasma levels were shown to be increased in mice after treatment with hypoxia inducible factor-proline hydroxylase (HIF-PH) inhibitors which are strong inducers of erythropoietin and erythropoiesis and are known to modulate iron uptake and availability. Therefore we investigated a potential context between expression of FGF23 and stimulation of erythropoiesis using a HIF-PH inhibitor and erythropoietin in rats. FGF23 plasma levels are induced at peak levels 2 h after intravenous injection of recombinant human Erythropoietin (rhEPO). Likewise induction of endogenous EPO using a HIF-PH inhibitor (BAY 85-3934) is followed by an increase of FGF23 plasma levels. In contrast to rhEPO the HIF-PH inhibitor induces lower peak levels of FGF23 applying equivalent hematopoietic doses. Bone and bone marrow were identified as sources of EPO-induced FGF23. Immediate induction of FGF23 mRNA was also detected in EPO receptor positive murine hematopoietic BAF3 cells after treatment with rhEPO but not after treatment with the HIF-PH inhibitor. Pretreatment of mice with a neutralizing anti-EPO antibody abrogated FGF23 induction by the HIF-PH inhibitor. Thus, direct impact on FGF23 expression by HIF-PH inhibition in vivo via hypoxia mimicking and modulation of iron metabolism appears unlikely. Collectively, the findings point to an EPO dependent regulation pathway of FGF23 gene expression which might be important in the context of erythropoiesis stimulating therapies in patients with renal anemia. labels: #Animals#Enzyme Inhibitors#Erythropoietin#Fibroblast Growth Factors#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor-Proline Dioxygenases#Male#Mice#RNA, Messenger#Rats'
b'There is a paucity of health policy relevant data for chronic liver disease from India, impeding formulation of an interventional strategy to address the issue. A prospective, multicentric study to delineate the etiology and clinical profile of chronic liver disease in India is reported here. A centrally coordinated and monitored web-based data repository was developed (Feb, 2010 to Jan, 2013) and analyzed. Eleven hospitals from different parts of India participated. Data were uploaded into a web based proforma and monitored by a single centre according to a standardized protocol. 1.28% (n = 266621) of all patients (n = 20701383) attending the eleven participating hospitals of India had liver disease. 65807 (24\xc2\xb768%) were diagnosed for the first time (new cases). Of these, 13014 (19\xc2\xb777%, median age 43 years, 73% males) cases of chronic liver disease were finally analyzed. 33.9% presented with decompensated cirrhosis. Alcoholism (34\xc2\xb73% of 4413) was the commonest cause of cirrhosis while Hepatitis B (33\xc2\xb73%) was predominant cause of chronic liver disease in general and non-cirrhotic chronic liver disease (40\xc2\xb78% out of 8163). There was significant interregional differences (hepatitis C in North, hepatitis B in East and South, alcohol in North-east, Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in West) in the predominant cause of chronic liver disease. Hepatitis B (46\xc2\xb78% of 438 cases) was the commonest cause of hepatocellular Cancer.11\xc2\xb77% had diabetes. Observations of our study will help guide a contextually relevant liver care policy for India and could serve as a framework for similar endeavor in other developing countries as well. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Child#Child, Preschool#Chronic Disease#Female#Health Facilities#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#India#Infant#Liver Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'IQGAPs is a family of proteins which comprises three members, in humans. The expression pattern and role of IQGAP1 has been well established in many cancers, whereas those of IQGAP2 and IQGAP3, have mostly remained unexplored. We used available large datasets, to explore the pan-cancer status of these two genes in-silico. Here we have analysed their mRNA expression and correlation with survivability in eight different cancers, including lung, breast, gastric, brain, colorectal, prostate, liver and kidney cancers and, their subtypes. The mRNA expression of IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 in individual cancers were analysed in two different publicly available databases viz. Oncomine and TCGA. The prognostic value of these genes in lung, breast and gastric cancer was analysed using Kaplan-Meier Plotter database, whereas for brain, colorectal, liver, prostate and kidney cancers, SurvExpress database was used. These results were validated by immunohistochemistry in cancer tissues (stomach, prostate, brain, colorectal). Moreover, we did IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 genomic alteration and, promoter methylation analysis using cBioportal and Wanderer web tool, respectively. Most of the cancer types (lung, breast, prostate, brain, gastric, liver, kidney and colorectal) showed increased IQGAP3 mRNA expression. In contrast, the IQGAP2 transcript levels were reduced across different cancers viz. lung, breast, gastric, liver, kidney and colorectal cancer. IQGAP2 expression correlated positively with survivability, on the contrary, IQGAP3 expression levels correlated inversely with survivability, in most of the cancers. Collectively, enhanced IQGAP3 and reduced IQGAP2 levels were frequently observed in multiple cancers with the former predicting poor survivability and the later opposite. Methylation pattern was significantly altered in most of the cancer types. We found copy no. variation and mutations in specific cancers, for IQGAP2 and IQGAP3. Our in-vivo (IHC) data confirmed the in-silico findings completely. Hence, IQGAP2 and IQGAP3 have potential to be used as prognostic markers or therapeutic targets in specific cancers. labels: #Computational Biology#DNA Methylation#Data Mining#GTPase-Activating Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Neoplasm Staging#Neoplasms#Prognosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#ras GTPase-Activating Proteins'
b'PURPOSE: To study the effect of torsional phacoemulsification energy on corneal endothelium evaluating the relationship between changes of endothelial cells and postoperative visual acuity.METHODS: This prospective clinical observational cohort study included 50 patients with cataract who underwent torsional phacoemulsification. Sequential quantitative and qualitative morphometric endothelial cell analyses of the cornea were performed four weeks preoperatively and six weeks postoperatively using noncontact specular microscopy.RESULTS: This work confirmed the strong relationship, described by a linear model (one-way ANOVA, R2 = 77.9%, P<0.0001), between the percentage of endothelial cell loss (ECL%) and the 5-score harm scale. According to the Tukey post-hoc pairwise comparison test, distinct values of ECL% are grouped in 3 subsets. The value of ECL = 10% has been identified as cut-off to discriminate patients with excellent postoperative best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA>85 letters) from those with just a good/satisfied visual outcome (BCVA \xe2\x89\xa4 85 letters). Within the 5-score harm scale, there was a significant correlation among phaco energy intraoperatively delivered and the average endothelial cell loss.CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the validity of the 5-score harm scale first proposed by Sorrentino and colleagues in 2016. This time, the method categorizes cataracts taking into account nucleus hardness and phaco cumulative dissipated energy. Predicting the harm on corneal endothelium, we can discriminate patients with excellent BCVA and with just good/satisfied BCVA. With torsional phacoemulsification with respect to longitudinal, the percentage of patients who can reach excellent BCVA is remarkably increased. labels: #Endothelium, Corneal#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phacoemulsification#Pilot Projects#Prospective Studies#Visual Acuity'
b'Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease driving inflammatory and degenerative processes that damage the central nervous system (CNS). However, it is not well understood how these events interact and evolve to evoke such a highly dynamic and heterogeneous disease. We established a hypothesis whereby the variability in the course of MS is driven by the very same pathogenic mechanisms responsible for the disease, the autoimmune attack on the CNS that leads to chronic inflammation, neuroaxonal degeneration and remyelination. We propose that each of these processes acts more or less severely and at different times in each of the clinical subgroups. To test this hypothesis, we developed a mathematical model that was constrained by experimental data (the expanded disability status scale [EDSS] time series) obtained from a retrospective longitudinal cohort of 66 MS patients with a long-term follow-up (up to 20 years). Moreover, we validated this model in a second prospective cohort of 120 MS patients with a three-year follow-up, for which EDSS data and brain volume time series were available. The clinical heterogeneity in the datasets was reduced by grouping the EDSS time series using an unsupervised clustering analysis. We found that by adjusting certain parameters, albeit within their biological range, the mathematical model reproduced the different disease courses, supporting the dynamic CNS damage hypothesis to explain MS heterogeneity. Our analysis suggests that the irreversible axon degeneration produced in the early stages of progressive MS is mainly due to the higher rate of myelinated axon degeneration, coupled to the lower capacity for remyelination. However, and in agreement with recent pathological studies, degeneration of chronically demyelinated axons is not a key feature that distinguishes this phenotype. Moreover, the model reveals that lower rates of axon degeneration and more rapid remyelination make relapsing MS more resilient than the progressive subtype. Therefore, our results support the hypothesis of a common pathogenesis for the different MS subtypes, even in the presence of genetic and environmental heterogeneity. Hence, MS can be considered as a single disease in which specific dynamics can provoke a variety of clinical outcomes in different patient groups. These results have important implications for the design of therapeutic interventions for MS at different stages of the disease. labels: #Brain#Computational Biology#Databases, Factual#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Multiple Sclerosis#Prospective Studies'
b'The effect of high pressure thermal (HPT) processing on the inactivation of spores of proteolytic type B Clostridium botulinum TMW 2.357 in four differently composed low-acid foods (green peas with ham, steamed sole, vegetable soup, braised veal) was studied in an industrially feasible pressure range and temperatures between 100 and 120\xc2\xb0C. Inactivation curves exhibited rapid inactivation during compression and decompression followed by strong tailing effects. The highest inactivation (approx. 6-log cycle reduction) was obtained in braised veal at 600 MPa and 110\xc2\xb0C after 300 s pressure-holding time. In general, inactivation curves exhibited similar negative exponential shapes, but maximum achievable inactivation levels were lower in foods with higher fat contents. At high treatment temperatures, spore inactivation was more effective at lower pressure levels (300 vs. 600 MPa), which indicates a non-linear pressure/temperature-dependence of the HPT spore inactivation efficiency. A comparison of spore inactivation levels achievable using HPT treatments versus a conventional heat sterilization treatment (121.1\xc2\xb0C, 3 min) illustrates the potential of combining high pressures and temperatures to replace conventional retorting with the possibility to reduce the process temperature or shorten the processing time. Finally, experiments using varying spore inoculation levels suggested the presence of a resistant fraction comprising approximately 0.01% of a spore population as reason for the pronounced tailing effects in survivor curves. The loss of the high resistance properties upon cultivation indicates that those differences develop during sporulation and are not linked to permanent modifications at the genetic level. labels: #Clostridium botulinum type B#Food Microbiology#Hot Temperature#Microbial Viability#Nonlinear Dynamics#Pressure#Spores, Bacterial'
b'Cuticular waxes of plant and organ surfaces play an important role in protecting plants from biotic and abiotic stress and extending the freshness, storage time and shelf life in the post-harvest agricultural products. WRI1, a transcription factor of AP2/SHEN families, had been found to trigger the related genes taking part in the biosynthesis of seed oil in many plants. But whether WRI1 is involved in the biosynthesis of the cuticular waxes on the Malus fruits surface has been unclear. We investigated the changes of wax composition and structure, the related genes and WRI1 expression on Malus asiatica Nakai and sieversii fruits with the low temperature treatments, found that low temperature induced the up-regulated expression of McWRI1, which promoted gene expression of McKCS, McLACs and McWAX in very-long-chain fatty acid biosynthesis pathway, resulting in the accumulation of alkanes component and alteration of wax structure on the fruit surface. Corresponding results were verified in McWRI1 silenced by VIGS, and WRI1 silenced down-regulated the related genes on two kinds of fruits, it caused the diversity alteration in content of some alkanes, fatty acid and ester component in two kinds of fruits. We further conducted Y1H assay to find that McWRI1 transcription factor activated the promoter of McKCS, McLAC and McWAX to regulate their expression. These results demonstrated that McWRI1 is involved in regulating the genes related synthesis of very long chain fatty acid on surface of apple fruits in storage process, providing a highlight for improvement of the modified atmosphere storage of apple fruits. labels: #Cloning, Molecular#DNA, Complementary#Fruit#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Gene Silencing#Malus#Mutation#Plant Proteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Stress, Physiological#Temperature#Transcription Factors#Waxes'
b"Sleep loss causes profound cognitive impairments and increases the concentrations of adenosine and adenosine A1 receptors in specific regions of the brain. Time courses for performance impairment and recovery differ between acute and chronic sleep loss, but the physiological basis for these time courses is unknown. Adenosine has been implicated in pathways that generate sleepiness and cognitive impairments, but existing mathematical models of sleep and cognitive performance do not explicitly include adenosine. Here, we developed a novel receptor-ligand model of the adenosine system to test the hypothesis that changes in both adenosine and A1 receptor concentrations can capture changes in cognitive performance during acute sleep deprivation (one prolonged wake episode), chronic sleep restriction (multiple nights with insufficient sleep), and subsequent recovery. Parameter values were estimated using biochemical data and reaction time performance on the psychomotor vigilance test (PVT). The model closely fit group-average PVT data during acute sleep deprivation, chronic sleep restriction, and recovery. We tested the model's ability to reproduce timing and duration of sleep in a separate experiment where individuals were permitted to sleep for up to 14 hours per day for 28 days. The model accurately reproduced these data, and also correctly predicted the possible emergence of a split sleep pattern (two distinct sleep episodes) under these experimental conditions. Our findings provide a physiologically plausible explanation for observed changes in cognitive performance and sleep during sleep loss and recovery, as well as a new approach for predicting sleep and cognitive performance under planned schedules. labels: #Adenosine#Attention#Brain#Cognition#Cognition Disorders#Computer Simulation#Humans#Models, Neurological#Psychomotor Performance#Reaction Time#Recovery of Function#Sleep#Sleep Deprivation"
b'Micrococcal nuclease (MNase) has been widely used for analyses of nucleosome locations in many organisms. However, due to its sequence preference, the interpretations of the positions and occupancies of nucleosomes using MNase have remained controversial. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) has also been utilized for analyses of MNase-digests, but some technical biases are commonly present in the NGS experiments. Here, we established a gel-based method to map nucleosome positions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, using isolated nuclei as the substrate for the histone H4 S47C-site-directed chemical cleavage in parallel with MNase digestion. The parallel mapping allowed us to compare the chemically and enzymatically cleaved sites by indirect end-labeling and primer extension mapping, and thus we could determine the nucleosome positions and the sizes of the nucleosome-free regions (or nucleosome-depleted regions) more accurately, as compared to nucleosome mapping by MNase alone. The analysis also revealed that the structural features of the nucleosomes flanked by the nucleosome-free region were different from those within regularly arrayed nucleosomes, showing that the structures and dynamics of individual nucleosomes strongly depend on their locations. Moreover, we demonstrated that the parallel mapping results were generally consistent with the previous genome-wide chemical mapping and MNase-Seq results. Thus, the gel-based parallel mapping will be useful for the analysis of a specific locus under various conditions. labels: #Aldose-Ketose Isomerases#Chromosome Mapping#DNA, Fungal#Genetic Loci#Hydroxyl Radical#Micrococcal Nuclease#Nucleosomes#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b"When ascending (descending) a slope, positive (negative) work must be performed to overcome changes in gravitational potential energy at the center of body mass (COM). This modifies the pendulum-like behavior of walking. The aim of this study is to analyze how energy exchange and mechanical work done vary within a step across slopes and speeds. Ten subjects walked on an instrumented treadmill at different slopes (from -9\xc2\xb0 to 9\xc2\xb0), and speeds (between 0.56 and 2.22 m s-1). From the ground reaction forces, we evaluated energy of the COM, recovery (i.e. the potential-kinetic energy transduction) and pendular energy savings (i.e. the theoretical reduction in work due to this recovered energy) throughout the step. When walking uphill as compared to level, pendular energy savings increase during the first part of stance (when the COM is lifted) and decreases during the second part. Conversely in downhill walking, pendular energy savings decrease during the first part of stance and increase during the second part (when the COM is lowered). In uphill and downhill walking, the main phase of external work occurs around double support. Uphill, the positive work phase is extended during the beginning of single support to raise the body. Downhill, the negative work phase starts before double support, slowing the downward velocity of the body. Changes of the pendulum-like behavior as a function of slope can be illustrated by tilting the 'classical compass model' backwards (uphill) or forwards (downhill). labels: #Energy Metabolism#Exercise Test#Humans#Male#Walking#Young Adult"
b'The role of river discharge, wind and tide on the extension and variability of the Tagus River plume was analyzed from 2003 to 2015. This study was performed combining daily images obtained from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) sensor located onboard the Aqua and Terra satellites. Composites were generated by averaging pixels with the same forcing conditions. River discharge shows a strong relation with the extension of the Tagus plume. The plume grows with the increasing river discharge and express a two day lag caused by the long residence time of water within the estuary. The Tagus turbid plume was found to be smaller under northerly and easterly winds, than under southerly and westerly winds. It is suggested that upwelling favoring winds provoke the offshore movement of the plume material with a rapidly decrease in turbidity values whereas downwelling favoring winds retain plume material in the north coast close to the Tagus mouth. Eastern cross-shore (oceanward) winds spread the plume seaward and to the north following the coast geometry, whereas western cross-shore (landward) winds keep the plume material in both alongshore directions occupying a large part of the area enclosed by the bay. Low tides produce larger and more turbid plumes than high tides. In terms of fortnightly periodicity, the maximum plume extension corresponding to the highest turbidity is observed during and after spring tides. Minimum plume extension associated with the lowest turbidity occurs during and after neap tides. labels: #Droughts#Environmental Monitoring#Floods#Rivers#Satellite Imagery#Spain#Wind'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Although the effect of weather and air pollution on the occurrence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) has been investigated, results have remained inconsistent. The present study aimed to determine the seasonality of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage occurrence and mortality.METHODS: We used the National Inpatient Sample database to evaluate the effect of meteorological factors and air pollutants on patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in Korea between 2011 and 2014. Monthly variations in SAH occurrence and mortality were analyzed using locally weighted scatter plot smoothing curves. Multivariate Poisson generalized linear regression models were used to evaluate potential independent meteorological and pollutant variables associated with SAH occurrence and mortality.RESULTS: In total, 21,407 patients who underwent clip or coil treatment owing to aneurysmal SAH in Korea from January 1, 2011, to December 31, 2014, were included. The crude incidence rate of SAH in Korea was 10.5 per 100,000 people per year. An approximately 0.5% lower risk of SAH was observed per 1\xc2\xb0C increase in mean monthly temperature (relative risk, 0.995; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.992-0.997; p<0.001), while an approximately 2.3% higher risk of SAH was observed per 1\xc2\xb0C increase in mean monthly diurnal temperature.CONCLUSIONS: We showed distinct patterns of seasonal and monthly variation in the occurrence and mortality of SAH. Our findings suggest that meteorological factors may play an important role in monthly variations in the occurrence of aneurysmal SAH. labels: #Air Pollution#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Subarachnoid Hemorrhage#Temperature#Weather'
b'Hypertension is the most prevalent risk factor for new-onset atrial fibrillation (AF). But few studies have addressed the effect of statins on the incidence of this arrhythmia in patients with hypertension. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of statins on new-onset of this arrhythmia in a hypertensive population, accounting for AF risk. Data from the Information System for the Development of Research in Primary Care was used to recruit a retrospective cohort of \xe2\x89\xa555-year-old hypertensive individuals with no ischemic vascular disease, in 2006-2007, followed up through 2015. The effect of initiating statin treatment on new-onset atrial fibrillation was assessed with Cox proportional hazards models adjusted by the propensity score of receiving statin treatment, in the overall study population and stratified by AF risk. Of 100 276 included participants, 9814 initiated statin treatment. The AF incidence per 1000 person-years (95% confidence interval) was 12.5 (12.3-12.8). Statin use associated with a significant (9%) reduction in AF incidence. Differences in absolute AF incidence were higher in the highest AF risk subgroup, and the estimated number needed to treat to avoid one case was 720. The relative effect was poor, similar across groups, and non-significant, as was the association of statins with adverse effects. We found a limited protective effect of statins over new-onset AF in this hypertensive population with no ischemic vascular disease. If there is no further indication, hypertensive patients would not benefit from statin use solely for AF primary prevention. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Hypertension#Male#Retrospective Studies#Risk'
b'The effectiveness of cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells for treatment of cancers has long been appreciated. Here, we report for the first time that CIK cells can be applied to treat allergic airway inflammation. Adopting from an established protocol with some modifications, we generated CIK cells ex vivo from mouse T cells, and examined their effectiveness in treatment of allergic airway inflammation using the ovalbumin-induced model of allergic airway inflammation. Based upon evaluation of bronchoalveolar lavage cellularity, T helper type2 cytokine levels and lung histology, all of which are important parameters for determining the severity of allergic airway inflammation, diseased mice treated with CIK cells showed significant reductions in all the parameters without any obvious adverse effects. Interestingly, the observed effects were comparable to those treated with dexamethasone. Thus, our study provides a novel application of CIK cells in treatment of allergic airway inflammation. labels: #Animals#Asthma#Cell- and Tissue-Based Therapy#Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells#Cytokines#Eosinophils#Goblet Cells#Hyperplasia#Hypersensitivity#Killer Cells, Natural#Male#Mice#Th1 Cells'
b'More than 1,500 fish species are hermaphroditic, but no hermaphroditic lineage appears to be evolutionarily ancient in fishes. Thus, whether more than one sex at a time was present during the evolutionary shift from gonochorism to hermaphroditism in fishes is an intriguing question. Ectopic oocytes were created in the ovotestes of protandrous black porgy via the withdrawal of estradiol (E2) administration. These ectopic oocytes reprogrammed the surrounding cells, which changed from Sertoli cells to follicle-like cells. We observed that gdf9 and bmp15 expression was localized in the primary oocytes and gradually decreased after oocytes entered a secondary oocyte stage. Robust expression of gdf9 and bmp15 in ectopic oocytes was associated with the surrounding Sertoli cells. However, blocking Cyp19a1a activity and increasing androgen levels did not stimulate the expression of gdf9 and bmp15. Thus, the robust gdf9 and bmp15 expression was not related to the inappropriate male microenvironment. Furthermore, in vitro data demonstrated that gdf9 and bmp15 were not downstream genes of Figla signaling. Therefore, our results suggest that there are two independent mechanisms, a Figla-dependent pathway and a Figla-independent pathway, by which oocyte-surrounding cells are altered from a male somatic fate to a female somatic fate. This functional switch might clarify how oocytes created an appropriate microenvironment during the transition from the ancient gonochorism to the present hermaphroditism. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Bone Morphogenetic Protein 15#Estradiol#Female#Fish Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation#Growth Differentiation Factor 9#Hermaphroditic Organisms#Male#Oocytes#Ovary#Perciformes#Sertoli Cells#Signal Transduction#Testis#Vitellogenesis'
b"Serine-proteases are important players in the pathogenesis of asthma, promoting inflammation and tissue remodeling. It's also known that many serine protease inhibitors display immunomodulatory properties. TgPI-1 is a Toxoplasma gondii protein that exhibits broad spectrum inhibitory activity against serine proteases. In view of the increased prevalence of atopic disorders and the need to develop new treatment strategies we sought to investigate the potential of TgPI-1 for treating respiratory allergies. For this purpose, we developed a therapeutic experimental model. BALB/c mice were rendered allergic by intraperitoneal ovalbumin-alum sensitization and airway-challenged. Once the asthmatic phenotype was achieved, mice were intranasally treated with rTgPI-1 alone or with a mixture of rTgPI-1 and ovalbumin (OVA). A week later mice were given a secondary aerosol challenge. Treatment with rTgPI-1 alone or co-administered with OVA diminished bronchoalveolar eosinophilia, mucus production and peribronchial lung infiltration. This effect was accompanied by a lung resistance reduction of 26.3% and 50.3% respectively. Both treatments resulted in the production of lower levels of IL-4, IL-5, IFN-\xce\xb3 and regulatory IL-10 by thoracic lymph node cells stimulated with OVA. Interestingly, significant decreases in OVA specific IgE and T cell proliferation, and increases in FoxP3+ T cells at local and systemic levels were only detected when the inhibitor was administered along with OVA. These results show that both rTgPI-1 treatments reduced asthma hallmarks. However, co-administration of the inhibitor with the allergen was more effective. Hence, rTgPI-1 emerges as a novel adjuvant candidate for asthma treatment. labels: #Allergens#Animals#Antibodies, Protozoan#Antibody Specificity#Asthma#Cell Proliferation#Cytokines#Drug Interactions#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Ovalbumin#Recombinant Proteins#Serine Proteinase Inhibitors#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Toxoplasma"
b'Acute inflammation is an immediate response to infection and injury characterised by the influx of granulocytes followed by phagocytosing mononuclear phagocytes. Provided the antigen is cleared and the immune system of the host is fully functional, the acute inflammatory response will resolve. Until now it is considered that resolution then leads back to homeostasis, the physiological state tissues experienced before inflammation occurred. Using a human model of acute inflammation driven by intradermal UV killed Escherichia coli, we found that bacteria and granulocyte clearance as well as pro-inflammatory cytokine catabolism occurred by 72h. However, following a lag phase of about 4 days there was an increase in numbers of memory T cells and CD163+ macrophage at the post-resolution site up to day 17 as well as increased biosynthesis of cyclooxygenase-derived prostanoids and DHA-derived D series resolvins. Inhibiting post-resolution prostanoids using naproxen showed that numbers of tissue memory CD4 cells were under the endogenous control of PGE2, which exerts its suppressive effects on T cell proliferation via the EP4 receptor. In addition, we re-challenged the post-resolution site with a second injection of E. coli, which when compared to saline controls resulted in primarily a macrophage-driven response with comparatively fewer PMNs; the macrophage-dominated response was reversed by cyclooxygenase inhibition. Re-challenge experiments were also carried out in mice where we obtained similar results as in humans. Therefore, we report that acute inflammatory responses in both humans and rodents do not revert back to homeostasis, but trigger a hitherto unappreciated sequence of immunological events that dictate subsequent immune response to infection. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Animals#Antigens, CD#Antigens, Differentiation, Myelomonocytic#Cell Count#Cell Proliferation#Dinoprostone#Escherichia coli#Female#Humans#Inflammation#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Microbial Viability#Middle Aged#Receptors, Cell Surface#T-Lymphocytes#Ultraviolet Rays#Young Adult'
b"Copper, as the third most abundant transition metal ions of human, plays an essential role in the redox reaction, signal transduction, hematopoiesis, and other physiological processes. Abnormal content of copper ions in the body will cause some diseases such as anemia, coronary heart disease, Menkes' syndrome. In this article, a new fluorescence probe L for Cu2+ was designed and synthetized by using 4-bromo-1,8 naphthalene anhydride and 2-thiophene formaldehyde as raw materials. Fluorescent probe L itself exhibited strong fluorescence, upon the addition of Cu2+ ions, the fluorescence was quenched. The fluorescent detection limit for Cu2+ ions was determined to be 1.8 \xce\xbcM based on a 3\xce\xb4/S method. UV-vis absorption and fluorescence spectra indicated that probe L showed good selectivity and sensitivity for Cu2+, and this selectivity was not interfered by other metal ions and anions. Further cell fluorescence imaging experiments indicated that the probe L had potential to be used to examine copper ions in vivo. labels: #Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Copper#Drug Design#Fluorescent Dyes#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Limit of Detection#Naphthalenes"
b"OBJECTIVE: To examine trends in patient experience and consistency between hospital trusts and settings.METHODS: Observational study of publicly available patient experience surveys of three hospital settings (inpatients (IP), accident and emergency (A&E) and outpatients (OP)) of 130 acute NHS hospital trusts in England between 2004/05 and 2014/15.RESULTS: Overall patient experience has been good, showing modest improvements over time across the three hospital settings. Individual questions with the biggest improvement across all three settings are cleanliness (IP: +7.1, A&E: +6.5, OP: +4.7) and information about danger signals (IP: +3.8, A&E: +3.9, OP: +4.0). Trust performance has been consistent over time: 71.5% of trusts ranked in the same cluster for more than five years. There is some consistency across settings, especially between outpatients and inpatients. The lowest-scoring questions, regarding information at discharge, are the same in all years and all settings.CONCLUSIONS: The greatest improvement across all three settings has been for cleanliness, which has seen national policies and targets. Information about danger signals and medication side-effects showed least consistency across settings and scores have remained low over time, despite information about danger signals showing a big increase in score. Patient experience of aspects of access and waiting have declined, as has experience of discharge delay, likely reflecting known increases in pressure on England's NHS. labels: #England#Hospitals#Humans#National Health Programs#Patient Satisfaction#Trust"
b'In standard cage (SC) raised mice, experience-dependent ocular dominance (OD) plasticity in the primary visual cortex (V1) rapidly declines with age: in postnatal day 25-35 (critical period) mice, 4 days of monocular deprivation (MD) are sufficient to induce OD-shifts towards the open eye; thereafter, 7 days of MD are needed. Beyond postnatal day 110, even 14 days of MD failed to induce OD-plasticity in mouse V1. In contrast, mice raised in a so-called "enriched environment" (EE), exhibit lifelong OD-plasticity. EE-mice have more voluntary physical exercise (running wheels), and experience more social interactions (bigger housing groups) and more cognitive stimulation (regularly changed labyrinths or toys). Whether experience-dependent shifts of V1-activation happen faster in EE-mice and how long the plasticity promoting effect would persist after transferring EE-mice back to SCs has not yet been investigated. To this end, we used intrinsic signal optical imaging to visualize V1-activation i) before and after MD in EE-mice of different age groups (from 1-9 months), and ii) after transferring mice back to SCs after postnatal day 130. Already after 2 days of MD, and thus much faster than in SC-mice, EE-mice of all tested age groups displayed a significant OD-shift towards the open eye. Transfer of EE-mice to SCs immediately abolished OD-plasticity: already after 1 week of SC-housing and MD, OD-shifts could no longer be visualized. In an attempt to rescue abolished OD-plasticity of these mice, we either administered the anti-depressant fluoxetine (in drinking water) or supplied a running wheel in the SCs. OD-plasticity was only rescued for the running wheel- mice. Altogether our results show that raising mice in less deprived environments like large EE-cages strongly accelerates experience-dependent changes in V1-activation compared to the impoverished SC-raising. Furthermore, preventing voluntary physical exercise of EE-mice in adulthood immediately precludes OD-shifts in V1. labels: #Aging#Animal Husbandry#Animals#Dominance, Ocular#Environment#Female#Fluoxetine#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Neuronal Plasticity#Serotonin Uptake Inhibitors#Time Factors#Visual Cortex'
b"BACKGROUND: The American Heart Association released 7 modifiable factors, Life's Simple 7, that are expected to improve cardiovascular health (CVH), but their contributions to ischemic heart disease (IHD) in the general Australians are not well clarified.METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study based on 7499 adults (\xe2\x89\xa518 years) who have tested for total cholesterol and fasting plasma glucose as part of 2011-12 Australian Health Survey. Poisson regression analyses were used to estimate the incidence rate ratios and population attributable fractions of those factors to IHD prevalence. Participants were classified into three CVH groups based on the number of ideal metrics: inadequate (0-2), average (3-4), and optimal (5-7). Logistic regression analyses were performed to elucidate the relationship between overall CVH and IHD prevalence.RESULTS: 357 participants were self-reported having IHD condition, with a weighted prevalence of 3.3%. Physical inactivity, elevated body mass index (BMI) and total cholesterol (TC) were independently associated with IHD. Compared to the inadequate category, participants in the optimal and average categories have a 78% [adjusted odds ratio (OR), 0.22; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.03-1.96] and a 45% (adjusted OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.39-0.77) lower IHD risk. One more optimal metric was associated with an 18% lower IHD risk (adjusted OR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.71-0.93).CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that physical inactivity, raised BMI and elevated TC were independent modifiable risk factors of IHD in the general Australian population. The improvement of overall CVH may also reduce IHD risk among the general Australian adults. labels: #Adult#Australia#Coronary Artery Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors"
b"Academic dishonesty has been and continues to be a major problem in America's schools and universities. Such dishonesty is especially important in high schools, where grades earned directly impact the academic careers of students for many years to come. The rising pressure to get the best grades in school, get into the best college, and land the best paying job is a cycle that has made academic dishonesty increase exponentially. Thus, finding the widespread roots of cheating is more important now than ever. In this study, we focus on how societal norms and interactions with peers influence lying about scores in order to obtain a benefit in a high school population. We show that (1) the societal norms that go hand in hand with test-taking in school, as administered by a teacher, significantly dampen small-scale dishonesty, perhaps suggesting that context-dependent rewards offset cheating; (2) providing reminders of societal norms via pre-reported average scores leads to more truthful self-reporting of honesty; (3) the matrix search task was shown to not depend on class difficulty, confirming its effectiveness as an appropriate method for this study; (4) males seem to cheat more than females; and (5) teenagers are more dishonest earlier in the day. We suggest that students understand that cheating is wrong, an idea backed up by the literature, and that an environment which clearly does not condone dishonesty helps dampen widespread cheating in certain instances. This dampening effect seems to be dependent on the reward that students thought they would get for exaggerating their performance. labels: #Adult#Deception#Female#Humans#Male#Reward#United States#Universities#Young Adult"
b"Almost 1600 individuals from the Polish population were recruited to this study. Among them 319 were fertile couples, 289 were recurrent spontaneous abortion (RSA) couples, and 131 were in the group of recurrent implantation failure (RIF) following in vitro fertilization. The aim of this study was to evaluate the MTHFR c.c.677 C>T and c.c.1298 A>C polymorphisms' association with RSA and RIF. We used PCR-RFLP with HinfI (677 C>T) and MboII (1298 A>C) digestion. We observed a protective effect of the female AC genotype (OR = 0.64, p = 0.01) and the C allele (AC+CC genotypes; OR = 0.65, p = 0.009) against RSA. Moreover, 1298 AA/677 CT women were more frequent in RSA (31.14%) and RIF (25.20%) groups in comparison to fertile women (22.88%), although this difference was significant only in the case of RSA (p = 0.022, OR = 1.52). Male combined genotype analysis revealed no association with reproductive failure of their partners. Nevertheless, the female/male combination AA/AC of the 1298 polymorphism was more frequent in RSA couples (p = 0.049, OR = 1.49). However, the significant results became insignificant after Bonferroni correction. In addition, analysis of haplotypes showed significantly higher frequency of the C/C haplotype (1298 C/677 C) in the female control group than in the female RSA group (p = 0.03, OR = 0.77). Moreover, the association between elevated homocysteine (Hcy) level in plasma of RSA and RIF women and MTHFR polymorphisms was investigated but did not reveal significant differences. In conclusion, for clinical practice, it is better to check the homocysteine level in plasma and, if the Hcy level is increased, to recommend patients to take folic acid supplements rather than undergo screening of MTHFR for 1298 A>C and 677 C>T polymorphisms. labels: #Abortion, Habitual#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (NADPH2)#Middle Aged#Poland#Polymorphism, Genetic#Pregnancy"
b'BACKGROUND: According to the Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey 2014, only approximately 37 percent of women deliver in a health facility. Among the eight administrative divisions of Bangladesh, the facility delivery rate is lowest in the Sylhet division (22.6 percent) where we assessed the effect of integrated supply- and demand-side interventions on the facility-based delivery rate.METHODS: Population-based cohort data of pregnant women from an ongoing maternal and newborn health improvement study being conducted in a population of ~120,000 in Sylhet district were used. The study required collection and processing of biological samples immediately after delivery. Therefore, the project assembled various strategies to increase institutional delivery rates. The supply-side intervention included capacity expansion of the health facilities through service provider refresher training, 24/7 service coverage, additions of drugs and supplies, and incentives to the providers. The demand-side component involved financial incentives to cover expenses, a provision of emergency transport, and referral support to a tertiary-level hospital. We conducted a before-and-after observational study to assess the impact of the intervention in a total of 1,861 deliveries between December 2014 and November 2016.RESULTS: Overall, implementation of the intervention package was associated with 52.6 percentage point increase in the proportions of facility-based deliveries from a baseline rate of 25.0 percent to 77.6 percent in 24 months. We observed lower rates of institutional deliveries when only supply-side interventions were implemented. The proportion rose to 47.1 percent and continued increasing when the project emphasized addressing the financial barriers to accessing obstetric care in a health facility.CONCLUSIONS: An integrated supply- and demand-side intervention was associated with a substantial increase in institutional delivery. The package can be tailored to identify which combination of interventions may produce the optimum result and be scaled. Rigorous implementation research studies are needed to draw confident conclusions and to provide information about the costs, feasibility for scale-up and sustainability. labels: #Bangladesh#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Maternal Health Services#Pregnancy#Rural Health Services'
b'In order to study the long-term stability of fin whale (Balaenoptera physalus) singing behavior, the frequency and inter-pulse interval of fin whale 20 Hz vocalizations were observed over 10 years from 2003-2013 from bottom mounted hydrophones and seismometers in the northeast Pacific Ocean. The instrument locations extended from 40\xc2\xb0N to 48\xc2\xb0N and 130\xc2\xb0W to 125\xc2\xb0W with water depths ranging from 1500-4000 m. The inter-pulse interval (IPI) of fin whale song sequences was observed to increase at a rate of 0.54 seconds/year over the decade of observation. During the same time period, peak frequency decreased at a rate of 0.17 Hz/year. Two primary call patterns were observed. During the earlier years, the more commonly observed pattern had a single frequency and single IPI. In later years, a doublet pattern emerged, with two dominant frequencies and IPIs. Many call sequences in the intervening years appeared to represent a transitional state between the two patterns. The overall trend was consistent across the entire geographical span, although some regional differences exist. Understanding changes in acoustic behavior over long time periods is needed to help establish whether acoustic characteristics can be used to help determine population identity in a widely distributed, difficult to study species such as the fin whale. labels: #Animals#Fin Whale#Pacific Ocean#Sound Spectrography#Vocalization, Animal'
b'AIM: To describe the prevalence of Peripheral Artery Disease (PAD) in a random population sample and to evaluate its relationship with Mediterranean diet and with other potential cardiovascular risk factors such as serum uric acid and pulse pressure in individuals ranged 45 to 74 years.METHODS: Cross-sectional analysis of 1568 subjects (mean age 6.5 years, 43% males), randomly selected from the population. A fasting blood sample was obtained to determine glucose, lipids, and HbA1C levels. An oral glucose tolerance test was performed in non-diabetic subjects. PAD was evaluated by ankle-brachial index and/or having a prior diagnosis.RESULTS: PAD prevalence was 3.81% (95% CI, 2.97-4.87) for all participants. In men, PAD prevalence was significantly higher than in women [5.17% (95% CI, 3.74-7.11) vs. 2.78% (95% CI, 1.89-4.07); p = 0.014]. Serum uric acid in the upper quartile was associated with the highest odds ratio (OR) of PAD (for uric acid>6.1 mg/dl, OR = 4.31; 95% CI, 1.49-12.44). The remaining variables more strongly associated with PAD were: Heart rate>90 bpm (OR = 4.16; 95%CI, 1.62-10.65), pulse pressure in the upper quartile (\xe2\x89\xa5 54 mmHg) (OR = 3.82; 95%CI, 1.50-9.71), adherence to Mediterranean diet (OR = 2.73; 95% CI, 1.48-5.04), and former smoker status (OR = 2.04; 95%CI, 1.00-4.16).CONCLUSIONS: Our results show the existence of a low prevalence of peripheral artery disease in a population aged 45-74 years. Serum uric acid, pulse pressure and heart rate>90 bpm were strongly associated with peripheral artery disease. The direct association between Mediterranean diet and peripheral artery disease that we have found should be evaluated through a follow-up study under clinical practice conditions. labels: #Aged#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Peripheral Arterial Disease#Prediabetic State'
b'The purpose of this study is to compare the clinicopathological characteristics and outcomes of esophageal foreign body (FB) ingestion in adults between weekdays and holidays. This is a retrospective study including 1058 patients with esophageal FB ingestion from 2012 to 2016. Patient characteristics, the types and locations of FB, and clinical outcomes were compared between patients on weekdays and holidays. Furthermore, independent risk factors of complication on weekdays and holidays respectively were evaluated. The locations of FB, underlying diseases, and complications significantly differed between weekdays and holidays groups, while no difference was found in the types of FB. Patients got higher percentage of erosion complication on holidays than that on weekdays (60.8% vs 47.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001). Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that jujube shell was a significant predictor of complication on weekdays (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). However, complication was significantly associated with nonfood bolus FB ingestion on holidays (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Our data suggest that there were different clinicopathological characteristics of FB ingestion between weekdays and holidays, and more patients got complications on holidays. On holidays, a latex protector hood or an overtube should be applied to patients who swallowed nonfood bolus in order to reduce esophageal mucosal damage. labels: #Adult#Eating#Esophagus#Female#Foreign Bodies#Holidays#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma (PHC) is a rare form of pancreatic malignancy mimicking hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in morphology, immunohistochemistry, and behavior. PHC usually has an aggressive clinical course and poor prognosis. Effective treatment strategies are lacking due to poor understanding and extreme rarity of such kind of malignancy. PATIENT CONCERNS:: we present the case of a 75-year-old man with tumors in the liver and the tail of pancreas that were detected in a routine health check-up.DIAGNOSES: Pancreatic hepatoid carcinoma with liver metastasis INTERVENTIONS:: The patient was treated by neoadjuvant modified-FOLFIRINOX (mFOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy and subsequent resection of both the primary pancreatic tumor and the sole liver metastasis.OUTCOMES: Pathology findings confirmed complete pathological response of the liver metastatic tumor and partial response of the primary pancreatic tumor to neoadjuvant mFOLFIRINOX. Adjuvant chemotherapy with mFOLFIRINOX was given and until now the patient has a progression-free survival of 13 months after diagnosis.LESSONS: PHC are often associated with early liver metastasis and a poor prognosis, surgical resection combined with neoadjuvant and adjuvant FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy is proved to be efficient in such kind of malignancy, even with liver metastasis. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasms, Multiple Primary#Pancreatectomy#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Splenectomy#Treatment Outcome'
b'The risk calculator of the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS-NSQIP) has been shown to be useful in predicting postoperative complications. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the predictive value of the ACS-NSQIP calculator in geriatric patients undergoing lumbar surgery.A total of 242 geriatric patients who underwent lumbar surgery between January 2014 and December 2016 were included. Preoperative clinical information was retrospectively reviewed and entered into the ACS-NSQIP calculator. The predictive value of the ACS-NSQIP model was assessed using the Hosmer-Lemeshow test, Brier score (B), and receiver operating characteristics (ROC, also referred C-statistic) curve analysis. Additional risk factors were calculated as surgeon-adjusted risk including previous cardiac event and cerebrovascular disease.Preoperative risk factors including age (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004), functional independence (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), American Society of Anesthesiologists class (ASA class, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), dyspnea (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0), dialysis (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.049), previous cardiac event (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and history of cerebrovascular disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0) were significantly associated with a greater incidence of postoperative complications. Observed and predicted incidence of postoperative complications was 43.8% and 13.7% (\xc2\xb15.9%) (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01), respectively. The Hosmer-Lemeshow test demonstrated adequate predictive accuracy of the ACS-NSQIP model for all complications. However, Brier score showed that the ACS-NSQIP model could not accurately predict risk of all (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.321) or serious (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.241) complications, although it accurately predicted the risk of death (B\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.0072); this was supported by ROC curve analysis. The ROC curve also showed that the model had high sensitivity and specificity for predicting renal failure and readmission.The ACS-NSQIP surgical risk calculator is not an accurate tool for the prediction of postoperative complications in geriatric Chinese patients undergoing lumbar surgery. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Geriatric Assessment#Humans#Incidence#Laminectomy#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity#Spinal Stenosis'
b'RATIONALE: Hypoglycemic encephalopathy is a metabolic encephalopathy. Clinical risk is mixed with acute cerebrovascular disease, so it is critical to identify and make the correct diagnosis of the disease as early as possible.PATIENT CONCERNS: Here, we report a case of a 51-year-old male patient with hypoglycemic encephalopathy, who presented confusion and unconsciousness for 1 day.DIAGNOSES: In addition to blood-related indicators and medical histories, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), especially diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), can be valuable to the diagnosis of hypoglycemic encephalopathy, which showed diffuse high-signal intensity in the cerebral cortex, and also the hippocampus, head of the caudate nucleus, the lentiform nucleus, and corpus callosum.INTERVENTIONS: Intravenous glucose injection and drip was performed repeatedly. The blood glucose levels were gradually corrected, and the resulting blood glucose was 6.5\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L.OUTCOMES: The prognosis depends on the degree of hypoglycemia, duration, and condition of the organism. Due to the long duration of hypoglycemia, unfortunately, the patient died.LESSONS: It is critical to diagnose hypoglycemic encephalopathy as early as possible. MRI reveals diffuse abnormal intensity in the cortex and basal ganglia region. DWI using high b values provides important information for diagnosis. labels: #Brain Diseases, Metabolic#Cerebral Cortex#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Fatal Outcome#Hippocampus#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Male#Middle Aged'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Diarrhea is a common complication of enteral nutrition (EN), which affects recovery and prolongs the length of hospital stay (LOHS). To investigate the effect of fiber and probiotics in reducing diarrhea associated with EN in postoperative patients with gastric cancer (GC), the authors designed this prospective randomized-controlled trial.METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: This study included 120 patients with GC, and the patients were classified into 3 groups via random picking of envelopes: fiber-free nutrition formula (FF group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40), fiber-enriched nutrition formula (FE group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40), and fiber- and probiotic-enriched nutrition formula (FEP group, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a40). All patients were given EN formulas for 7 consecutive days after surgery.RESULTS: The number of diarrhea cases was higher in the FF group than in the FE group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.007). The FEP group had a lower number of diarrhea cases compared with the FE group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). Patients in the FE group had a significantly shorter first flatus time than the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002). However, no significant difference was observed between the FE group and FEP group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.30). Intestinal disorders were similar between the FE group and FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.38). The FEP group had a lower number of intestinal disorder cases than the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). LOHS in the FE and FEP groups was shorter than that in the FF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). However, no significant difference was observed between the FE and FEP groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.28). In addition, no significant difference was observed between the 3 groups in terms of total lymphocyte count, albumin, prealbumin, and transferrin levels on day 7 of enteral feeding.CONCLUSIONS: The combination of fiber and probiotics was significantly effective in treating diarrhea that is associated with EN in postoperative patients with GC. labels: #Aged#Diarrhea#Dietary Fiber#Enteral Nutrition#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Probiotics#Prospective Studies#Stomach Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b"Local anesthesia is routinely recommended for percutaneous transforaminal endoscopic discectomy (PTED). However, the intense intraoperative pain remains a serious problem. The purpose of the current study is to find a safe and effective method to alleviate the intense pain during PTED for lumbar disc herniation (LDH) under local anesthesia.This study retrospectively analyzed 63 LDH patients who accepted PTED under local anesthesia. Thirty-one patients received intramuscular injection of morphine before PTED, while the other 32 were not. The 10 points visual analogue scale (VAS) was used to assess the patients' maximum leg and back pain. Patients were asked to grade their experiences of surgery and anesthesia on a 5-point Likert-type scale after the surgery. Modified Mac Nab Criteria were used to evaluate the surgical outcomes after 3-month follow-up.The intraoperative VAS scores of patients who accepted preoperative intervention decreased significantly. The postoperative VAS scores of both groups showed no significance. Patients who received preoperative intervention reported a higher subjective satisfaction rate with the surgery experience. According to the Modified Mac Nab criteria, the surgical outcomes of both groups were similar through the 3-month follow-up. After injection of morphine, 4 patients complained nausea and 2 patients experienced vomiting.Preoperative intramuscular injection of morphine could reduce the patients' pain during the PTED surgery and improve the patients' satisfaction without affecting the surgical outcome. Except for a higher incidence of nausea and vomiting, this method is relatively safe and convenient. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthesia, Local#Diskectomy, Percutaneous#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Injections, Intramuscular#Intervertebral Disc Displacement#Intraoperative Complications#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Morphine#Pain#Patient Satisfaction#Preoperative Care#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Visual Analog Scale#Young Adult"
b'In acute pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE), right ventricular pressure overload impairs right-sided cardiac conduction and repolarization. We hypothesized that if heterogeneity of repolarization between right and left ventricles occurs in acute PTE, there would be the difference of repolarization between them. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the diagnostic value of corrected QT interval (QTc) difference between leads V1 and V6 (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) in patients with acute PTE.A total of 89 patients with suspected acute PTE who underwent computed tomographic angiography (CTA) were enrolled from January to December 2015. PTE was identified by CTA. We compared electrocardiographic (ECG) parameters, especially QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) between patients with PTE and those without PTE.Acute PTE was finally diagnosed in 45 patients. Clinical situations including the chief complaint were not different between PTE and non-PTE groups. S1Q3T3, a traditional ECG marker, had no diagnostic value for acute PTE. Patients with PTE had a significantly longer mean QTc in V1 (454.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a44.3 vs 417.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a31.3\xe2\x80\x8ams, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and larger QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) (34.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a30.5 vs -12.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.6\xe2\x80\x8ams, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) than non-PTE controls. QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) was negative in all patients without PTE. PTE patients had a higher prevalence of T wave inversion in leads III (51.1% vs 29.5%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038) and V1 (82.2% vs 38.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). A QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) of \xe2\x89\xa520\xe2\x80\x8ams identified PTE with 82.2% sensitivity, 100.0% specificity, and 100.0% positive predictive value.QTc difference (V1\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aV6) had an excellent diagnostic value for differentiating patients with and without acute PTE. labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Pulmonary Embolism#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'RATIONALE: The first metatarsophalangeal joint (MTP1) is the most frequent site of gouty tophi. We report an unusual case with a giant skin-perforating tophi. This is the first case of gouty tophi at MTP1 which accepts surgical debulking and amputation.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 42-year-old man presented with a seven-year history of gout and a giant tophi at MTP1. The patient was referred to hospital due to persistent pain and ulcerations on the surface of the left MTP1. This rounded, giant, swelling, tophaceous tophi severely interfered with his normal walking.DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with gouty arthritis seven years ago, and did not receive regular anti-gout treatments.OUTCOMES: Biochemical examination showed he had raised serum uric acid (SUA, 11.92\xe2\x80\x8amg/dl) and creatinine (258\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcmol/l). There was a severe joint destruction of MTP1 by X-ray examination. We controlled the skin infection by sulbenicillin. He was given febuxostat to reduce SUA. After 3 months of treatment, SUA fell to 6.8\xe2\x80\x8amg/dl. Then we performed surgical debulking of MTP1 and amputation of hallux. Surgical operations obviously relieved the pain, and improved the function of his left foot. The visual closure after amputation was good.CONCLUSION: Surgical amputation of the gout lesion at MTP1 maximized the function, and reduced the pain of this patient. In the case of giant tophi with severe gouty arthritis or skin infections, surgical decisions need to weigh gains and losses carefully. labels: #Adult#Amputation#Arthritis, Gouty#Creatinine#Humans#Male#Metatarsophalangeal Joint#Uric Acid'
b"This retrospective study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of 3 surgical procedures for Spontaneous Supratentorial Intracerebral Hemorrhage (SICH).A total of 63 patients with SICH were randomized into 3 groups. Group A (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a21) underwent craniotomy surgery, group B (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22) underwent burr hole, urokinase infusion and catheter drainage, and group C (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a20) underwent neuroendoscopic surgery. The hematoma evacuation rate of the operation was analyzed by 3D Slice software and the average surgery time, visualization during operation, decompressive effect, mortality, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) improvement, complications include rebleeding, pneumonia, intracranial infection were also compared among 3 groups.All procedures were successfully completed and the hematoma evacuation rate was significant differences among 3 groups which were 79.8%, 43.1%, 89.3% respectively (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01), and group C was the highest group. Group B was smallest traumatic one and shared the shortest operation time, but for the lack of hemostasis, it also the highest rebleeding group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). Although there were different in complications, but there was no significant in pneumonia, intracranial infection, GCS improvement and mortality rate.All these 3 methods had its own advantages and shortcomings, and every approach had its indications for SICH. Although for neuroendoscopic technical's minimal invasive, direct vision, effectively hematoma evacuation rate, and the relatively optimistic result, it might be a more promising approach for SICH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cerebral Hemorrhage#Craniotomy#Drainage#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hematoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroendoscopy#Operative Time#Random Allocation#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'The predictive factors associated with neck pain remain unclear. We conducted a cross-sectional study to assess predictive factors, especially Modic changes (MCs), associated with the intensity and duration of neck pain in patients with cervical disc degenerative disease.We retrospectively reviewed patients in our hospital from January 2013 to December 2016. Severe neck pain (SNP) and persistent neck pain (PNP) were the 2 main outcomes, and were assessed based on the numerical rating scale (NRS). Basic data, and also imaging data, were collected and analyzed as potential predictive factors. Univariate analysis and multiple logistic regression analysis were performed to assess the predictive factors for neck pain.In all, 381 patients (193 males and 188 females) with cervical degenerative disease were included in our study. The number of patients with SNP and PNP were 94 (24.67%) and 109 (28.61%), respectively. The NRS of neck pain in patients with type 1 MCs was significantly higher than type 2 MCs (4.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.9 vs 3.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.1; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.004). The multivariate logistic analysis showed that kyphosis curvature (odds ratio [OR] 1.082, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.044-1.112), spondylolisthesis (OR 1.339, 95% CI 1.226-1.462), and annular tear (OR 1.188, 95% CI 1.021-1.382) were factors associated with SNP, whereas kyphosis curvature (OR 1.568, 95% CI 1.022-2.394), spondylolisthesis (OR 1.486, 95% CI 1.082-2.041), and MCs (OR 1.152, 95% CI 1.074-1.234) were associated with PNP.We concluded that kyphosis curvature, spondylolisthesis, and annular tear are associated with SNP, whereas kyphosis curvature, spondylolisthesis, and MCs are associated with PNP. This study supports the view that MCs can lead to a long duration of neck pain. labels: #Adult#Biomechanical Phenomena#Cervical Vertebrae#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Intervertebral Disc Degeneration#Kyphosis#Logistic Models#Lordosis#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neck Pain#Pain Measurement#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Spinal Diseases#Spondylolisthesis'
b"RATIONALE: Glucagonoma and pancreatic serous oligocystic adenoma (SOA) are rare neuroendocrine and exocrine tumors of the pancreas, respectively. The coexistence of glucagonoma syndrome (GS) and SOA is a rare clinical condition and has not yet been reported. Additionally, necrolytic migratory erythema (NME), a hallmark clinical sign of GS, is often misdiagnosed as other skin lesions by clinicians due to their lack of related knowledge, which delays diagnosis of GS and thus exacerbates the prognosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 50-year-old male patient was admitted to our department because he presented with diabetes mellitus and a recurrent ulcerated skin rash. Prior to the accurate diagnosis, the skin manifestation was considered to be diabetic dermopathy.DIAGNOSES: The patient's fasting serum glucagon level was up to 871.5\xe2\x80\x8apg/mL. A biopsy of the pancreatic tumor revealed a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, and immunoperoxidase staining revealed glucagon-positive cells. In addition, the histological examination of the pancreatic cystic lesions showed typical features of SOA.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received a pancreaticoduodenal resection and radiofrequency ablation for the hepatic nodular lesion.OUTCOMES: One week after surgery, the glucagon concentration decreased to near normal levels. The cutaneous lesions spontaneously resolved within 4 weeks after surgery.LESSONS: Because almost all glucagonomas are malignant or have malignant potential, their early recognition and correct diagnosis are very important for a better prognosis, especially in cases with NME as the only manifestation during the development of glucagonomas. It is therefore imperative that clinicians recognize NME early to make an accurate diagnosis. labels: #Cystadenoma, Serous#Diabetes Complications#Diabetes Mellitus#Exanthema#Glucagonoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Necrolytic Migratory Erythema#Pancreatic Neoplasms"
b'BACKGROUND: Stunting is the most prevalent manifestation of childhood malnutrition. To characterize factors that contribute to stunting in resource-poor settings, we studied a priori selected biological and social factors collected longitudinally in a cohort of newborns.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We enrolled 1,868 children across 7 resource-poor settings in Bangladesh, Brazil, India, Nepal, Peru, South Africa, and Tanzania shortly after birth and followed them for 24 months between 2 November 2009 and 28 February 2014. We collected longitudinal anthropometry, sociodemographic factors, maternal-reported illnesses, and antibiotic use; child feeding practices; dietary intake starting at 9 months; and longitudinal blood, urine, and stool samples to investigate non-diarrheal enteropathogens, micronutrients, gut inflammation and permeability, and systemic inflammation. We categorized length-for-age Z-scores into 3 groups (not stunted, \xe2\x89\xa5-1; at risk,<-1 to -2; and stunted,<-2), and used multivariable ordinal logistic regression to model the cumulative odds of being in a lower length-for-age category (at risk or stunted). A total of 1,197 children with complete longitudinal data were available for analysis. The prevalence of having a length-for-age Z-score below -1 increased from 43% (range 37%-47% across sites) shortly after birth (mean 7.7 days post-delivery, range 0 to 17 days) to 74% (16%-96%) at 24 months. The prevalence of stunting increased 3-fold during this same time period. Factors that contributed to the odds of being in a lower length-for-age category at 24 months were lower enrollment weight-for-age (interquartile cumulative odds ratio = 1.82, 95% CI 1.49-2.23), shorter maternal height (2.38, 1.89-3.01), higher number of enteropathogens in non-diarrheal stools (1.36, 1.07-1.73), lower socioeconomic status (1.75, 1.20-2.55), and lower percent of energy from protein (1.39, 1.13-1.72). Site-specific analyses suggest that reported associations were similar across settings. While loss to follow-up and missing data are inevitable, some study sites had greater loss to follow-up and more missing data than others, which may limit the generalizability of the findings.CONCLUSIONS: Neonatal and maternal factors were early determinants of lower length-for-age, and their contribution remained important throughout the first 24 months of life, whereas the average number of enteropathogens in non-diarrheal stools, socioeconomic status, and dietary intake became increasingly important contributors by 24 months relative to neonatal and maternal factors. labels: #Age Factors#Anthropometry#Bangladesh#Body Height#Brazil#Child, Preschool#Demography#Developing Countries#Eating#Environment#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#India#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Maternal Health#Nepal#Nutrition Assessment#Peru#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Socioeconomic Factors#South Africa#Tanzania'
b'How neuronal diversity emerges from complex patterns of gene expression remains poorly understood. Here we present an approach to understand electrophysiological diversity through gene expression by integrating pooled- and single-cell transcriptomics with intracellular electrophysiology. Using neuroinformatics methods, we compiled a brain-wide dataset of 34 neuron types with paired gene expression and intrinsic electrophysiological features from publically accessible sources, the largest such collection to date. We identified 420 genes whose expression levels significantly correlated with variability in one or more of 11 physiological parameters. We next trained statistical models to infer cellular features from multivariate gene expression patterns. Such models were predictive of gene-electrophysiological relationships in an independent collection of 12 visual cortex cell types from the Allen Institute, suggesting that these correlations might reflect general principles relating expression patterns to phenotypic diversity across very different cell types. Many associations reported here have the potential to provide new insights into how neurons generate functional diversity, and correlations of ion channel genes like Gabrd and Scn1a (Nav1.1) with resting potential and spiking frequency are consistent with known causal mechanisms. Our work highlights the promise and inherent challenges in using cell type-specific transcriptomics to understand the mechanistic origins of neuronal diversity. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Brain#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Ion Channels#Membrane Potentials#Mice#Neurons#Synaptic Transmission#Transcriptome'
b'Kleefstra syndrome, caused by haploinsufficiency of euchromatin histone methyltransferase 1 (EHMT1), is characterized by intellectual disability (ID), autism spectrum disorder (ASD), characteristic facial dysmorphisms, and other variable clinical features. In addition to EHMT1 mutations, de novo variants were reported in four additional genes (MBD5, SMARCB1, NR1I3, and KMT2C), in single individuals with clinical characteristics overlapping Kleefstra syndrome. Here, we present a novel cohort of five patients with de novo loss of function mutations affecting the histone methyltransferase KMT2C. Our clinical data delineates the KMT2C phenotypic spectrum and reinforces the phenotypic overlap with Kleefstra syndrome and other related ID disorders. To elucidate the common molecular basis of the neuropathology associated with mutations in KMT2C and EHMT1, we characterized the role of the Drosophila KMT2C ortholog, trithorax related (trr), in the nervous system. Similar to the Drosophila EHMT1 ortholog, G9a, trr is required in the mushroom body for short term memory. Trr ChIP-seq identified 3371 binding sites, mainly in the promoter of genes involved in neuronal processes. Transcriptional profiling of pan-neuronal trr knockdown and G9a null mutant fly heads identified 613 and 1123 misregulated genes, respectively. These gene sets show a significant overlap and are associated with nearly identical gene ontology enrichments. The majority of the observed biological convergence is derived from predicted indirect target genes. However, trr and G9a also have common direct targets, including the Drosophila ortholog of Arc (Arc1), a key regulator of synaptic plasticity. Our data highlight the clinical and molecular convergence between the KMT2 and EHMT protein families, which may contribute to a molecular network underlying a larger group of ID/ASD-related disorders. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Autism Spectrum Disorder#Binding Sites#Child#Chromosome Deletion#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 9#Craniofacial Abnormalities#Cytoskeletal Proteins#DNA-Binding Proteins#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Haploinsufficiency#Heart Defects, Congenital#Histone-Lysine N-Methyltransferase#Histones#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neuronal Plasticity#Promoter Regions, Genetic'
b'Pentameric ligand-gated ion channels (pLGICs) mediate intercellular communication at synapses through the opening of an ion pore in response to the binding of a neurotransmitter. Despite the increasing availability of high-resolution structures of pLGICs, a detailed understanding of the functional isomerization from closed to open (gating) and back is currently missing. Here, we provide the first atomistic description of the transition from open to closed (un-gating) in the glutamate-gated chloride channel (GluCl) from Caenorhabditis Elegans. Starting with the active-state structure solved in complex with the neurotransmitter L-glutamate and the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) ivermectin, we analyze the spontaneous relaxation of the channel upon removal of ivermectin by explicit solvent/membrane Molecular Dynamics (MD) simulations. The \xce\xbcs-long trajectories support the conclusion that ion-channel deactivation is mediated by two distinct quaternary transitions, i.e. a global receptor twisting followed by the radial expansion (or blooming) of the extracellular domain. At variance with previous models, we show that pore closing is exclusively regulated by the global twisting, which controls the position of the \xce\xb21-\xce\xb22 loop relative to the M2-M3 loop at the EC/TM domain interface. Additional simulations with L-glutamate restrained to the crystallographic binding mode and ivermectin removed indicate that the same twisting isomerization is regulated by agonist binding at the orthosteric site. These results provide a structural model for gating in pLGICs and suggest a plausible mechanism for the pharmacological action of PAMs in this neurotransmitter receptor family. The simulated un-gating converges to the X-ray structure of GluCl resting state both globally and locally, demonstrating the predictive character of state-of-art MD simulations. labels: #Allosteric Regulation#Allosteric Site#Binding Sites#Chloride Channels#Glutamic Acid#Ion Channel Gating#Ivermectin#Ligand-Gated Ion Channels#Ligands#Models, Chemical#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Neurotransmitter Agents#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation'
b'In developing brain neuronal migration, dendrite outgrowth and dendritic spine outgrowth are controlled by Cdc42, a small GTPase of the Rho family, and its activators. Cdc42 function in promoting actin polymerization is crucial for glutamatergic synapse regulation. Here, we focus on GABAergic synapse-specific activator of Cdc42, collybistin (CB) and examine functional differences between its splice isoforms CB1 and CB2. We report that CB1 and CB2 differentially regulate GABAergic synapse formation in vitro along proximal-distal axis and adult-born neuron maturation in vivo. The functional specialization between CB1 and CB2 isoforms arises from their differential protein half-life, in turn regulated by ubiquitin conjugation of the unique CB1 C-terminus. We report that CB1 and CB2 negatively regulate Cdc42; however, Cdc42 activation is dependent on CB interaction with gephyrin. During hippocampal adult neurogenesis CB1 regulates neuronal migration, while CB2 is essential for dendrite outgrowth. Finally, using mice lacking Gabra2 subunit, we show that CB1 function is downstream of GABAARs, and we can rescue adult neurogenesis deficit observed in Gabra2 KO. Overall, our results uncover previously unexpected role for CB isoforms downstream of \xce\xb12-containing GABAARs during neuron maturation in a Cdc42 dependent mechanism. labels: #Animals#Carrier Proteins#Cell Movement#Gene Expression Regulation#HEK293 Cells#Hippocampus#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Protein Isoforms#Receptors, GABA-A#Rho Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factors#Synapses#cdc42 GTP-Binding Protein'
b'Heterochromatin contains a significant part of nuclear DNA. Little is known about the mechanisms that govern heterochromatic DNA stability. We show here that in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae (i) DNA mismatch repair (MMR) is required for the maintenance of heterochromatic DNA stability, (ii) MutL\xce\xb1 (Mlh1-Pms1 heterodimer), MutS\xce\xb1 (Msh2-Msh6 heterodimer), MutS\xce\xb2 (Msh2-Msh3 heterodimer), and Exo1 are involved in MMR at heterochromatin, (iii) Exo1-independent MMR at heterochromatin frequently leads to the formation of Pol \xce\xb6-dependent mutations, (iv) MMR cooperates with the proofreading activity of Pol \xce\xb5 and the histone acetyltransferase Rtt109 in the maintenance of heterochromatic DNA stability, (v) repair of base-base mismatches at heterochromatin is less efficient than repair of base-base mismatches at euchromatin, and (vi) the efficiency of repair of 1-nt insertion/deletion loops at heterochromatin is similar to the efficiency of repair of 1-nt insertion/deletion loops at euchromatin. labels: #Base Sequence#DNA Damage#DNA Mismatch Repair#DNA, Fungal#Exodeoxyribonucleases#Genes, pol#Heterochromatin#Histone Acetyltransferases#MutL Proteins#MutS DNA Mismatch-Binding Protein#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Sequence Homology'
b'Ribonucleotide reductase (RNR) provides the precursors for the generation of dNTPs, which are required for DNA synthesis and repair. Here, we investigated the function of the major RNR subunits Rnr1 and Rnr3 in telomere elongation in budding yeast. We show that Rnr1 is essential for the sustained elongation of short telomeres by telomerase. In the absence of Rnr1, cells harbor very short, but functional, telomeres, which cannot become elongated by increased telomerase activity or by tethering of telomerase to telomeres. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Rnr1 function is critical to prevent an early onset of replicative senescence and premature survivor formation in telomerase-negative cells but dispensable for telomere elongation by Homology-Directed-Repair. Our results suggest that telomerase has a "basal activity" mode that is sufficient to compensate for the "end-replication-problem" and does not require the presence of Rnr1 and a different "sustained activity" mode necessary for the elongation of short telomeres, which requires an upregulation of dNTP levels and dGTP ratios specifically through Rnr1 function. By analyzing telomere length and dNTP levels in different mutants showing changes in RNR complex composition and activity we provide evidence that the Mec1ATR checkpoint protein promotes telomere elongation by increasing both dNTP levels and dGTP ratios through Rnr1 upregulation in a mechanism that cannot be replaced by its homolog Rnr3. labels: #Cellular Senescence#DNA Replication#Ribonucleotide Reductases#Saccharomycetales#Telomerase#Telomere#Telomere Homeostasis'
b'Many microorganisms that cause systemic, life-threatening infections in humans reside as harmless commensals in our digestive tract. Yet little is known about the biology of these microbes in the gut. Here, we visualize the interface between the human commensal and pathogenic fungus Candida albicans and the intestine of mice, a surrogate host. Because the indigenous mouse microbiota restricts C. albicans settlement, we compared the patterns of colonization in the gut of germ free and antibiotic-treated conventionally raised mice. In contrast to the heterogeneous morphologies found in the latter, we establish that in germ free animals the fungus almost uniformly adopts the yeast cell form, a proxy of its commensal state. By screening a collection of C. albicans transcription regulator deletion mutants in gnotobiotic mice, we identify several genes previously unknown to contribute to in vivo fitness. We investigate three of these regulators-ZCF8, ZFU2 and TRY4-and show that indeed they favor the yeast form over other morphologies. Consistent with this finding, we demonstrate that genetically inducing non-yeast cell morphologies is detrimental to the fitness of C. albicans in the gut. Furthermore, the identified regulators promote adherence of the fungus to a surface covered with mucin and to mucus-producing intestinal epithelial cells. In agreement with this result, histology sections indicate that C. albicans dwells in the murine gut in close proximity to the mucus layer. Thus, our findings reveal a set of regulators that endows C. albicans with the ability to endure in the intestine through multiple mechanisms. labels: #Animals#Candida albicans#Candidiasis#Germ-Free Life#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Intestinal Mucosa#Life Cycle Stages#Mice#Symbiosis'
b'Objectives: Programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) has been described, but unselected PDAs have shown limited clinical responsiveness to anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1)/PD-L1 therapy.Methods: We studied 24 cases of undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma (UPC) using immunohistochemistry for PD-L1 (E1L3N clone), CD3, CD20, CD68, and DNA mismatch repair proteins in this study. Slides were scored for extent of PD-L1 expression on tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating immune cells.Results: PD-L1 expression was more frequent in UPCs than in PDAs (63% vs 15%, P<.01). The extent of PD-L1 expression was greater in UPCs, with 13 (87%) of 15 cases containing 10% or more positive tumor cells compared with three of seven PDAs (P = .05). Both tumor groups showed similar numbers of tumor-infiltrating T cells, B cells, and macrophages.Conclusions: UPC is enriched for PD-L1 expression in frequency and extent, relative to conventional PDA. Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents may represent a valuable therapeutic approach for this subset of highly aggressive pancreatic carcinoma. labels: #Aged#B7-H1 Antigen#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#History, 16th Century#History, 17th Century#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphocytes, Tumor-Infiltrating#Male#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Proportional Hazards Models'
b'Objectives: Lymph node metastasis (LNM) in submucosal invasive esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SM-ESCC) is a prognostic factor. The aim of this study was to identify a histopathologic predictor of LNM in SM-ESCC.Methods: In total, 108 patients who underwent an esophagectomy and lymph node dissection without preoperative therapy and who were pathologically diagnosed with SM-ESCC were enrolled in this study. Relationships between several clinicopathologic factors and LNM were examined.Results: A multivariate analysis revealed that a tumor size of 35 mm or more (P = .0025), submucosal invasive depth (SID) of 2,000 \xce\xbcm or more (P = .013), and lymphatic infiltration (P<.0001) were significant independent predictors of LNM. In addition, there were significant differences in recurrence-free survival curves between patients with SID less than 2,000 \xce\xbcm or not (P = .029) and tumor size less than 35 mm or not (P = .049).Conclusions: This study suggests that SID may predict not only LNM but also poor prognosis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models'
b"Cell replacement has been explored as a therapeutic strategy to repair the brain in patients with Huntington's and Parkinson's disease. Post-mortem evaluations of healthy grafted tissue in such cases have revealed the development of Huntington- or Parkinson-like pathology including mutant huntingtin aggregates and Lewy bodies. An outstanding question remains if tau pathology can also be seen in patients with Huntington's and Parkinson's disease who had received foetal neural allografts. This was addressed by immunohistochemical/immunofluorescent stainings performed on grafted tissue of two Huntington's disease patients, who came to autopsy 9 and 12 years post-transplantation, and two patients with Parkinson's disease who came to autopsy 18 months and 16 years post-transplantation. We show that grafts also contain tau pathology in both types of transplanted patients. In two patients with Huntington's disease, the grafted tissue showed the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau [both AT8 (phospho-tau Ser202 and Thr205) and CP13 (pSer202) immunohistochemical stainings]pathological inclusions, neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads. In patients with Parkinson's disease, the grafted tissue was characterized by hyperphosphorylated tau (AT8; immunofluorescent staining) pathological inclusions, neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads but only in the patient who came to autopsy 16 years post-transplantation. Abundant tau-related pathology was observed in the cortex and striatum of all cases studied. While the striatum of the grafted Huntington's disease patient revealed an equal amount of 3-repeat and 4-repeat isoforms of tau, the grafted tissue showed elevated 4-repeat isoforms by western blot. This suggests that transplants may have acquired tau pathology from the host brain, although another possibility is that this was due to acceleration of ageing. This finding not only adds to the recent reports that tau pathology is a feature of these neurodegenerative diseases, but also that tau pathology can manifest in healthy neural tissue transplanted into the brains of patients with two distinct neurodegenerative disorders. labels: #Adult#Aged#Allografts#Autopsy#Case-Control Studies#Child#Female#Fetal Tissue Transplantation#Humans#Huntington Disease#Male#Middle Aged#Neostriatum#Parkinson Disease#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#tau Proteins"
b'BACKGROUND: Detailed neuropathological information on the structural brain lesions underlying seizures is valuable for understanding drug-resistant focal epilepsy.METHODS: We report the diagnoses made on the basis of resected brain specimens from 9523 patients who underwent epilepsy surgery for drug-resistant seizures in 36 centers from 12 European countries over 25 years. Histopathological diagnoses were determined through examination of the specimens in local hospitals (41%) or at the German Neuropathology Reference Center for Epilepsy Surgery (59%).RESULTS: The onset of seizures occurred before 18 years of age in 75.9% of patients overall, and 72.5% of the patients underwent surgery as adults. The mean duration of epilepsy before surgical resection was 20.1 years among adults and 5.3 years among children. The temporal lobe was involved in 71.9% of operations. There were 36 histopathological diagnoses in seven major disease categories. The most common categories were hippocampal sclerosis, found in 36.4% of the patients (88.7% of cases were in adults), tumors (mainly ganglioglioma) in 23.6%, and malformations of cortical development in 19.8% (focal cortical dysplasia was the most common type, 52.7% of cases of which were in children). No histopathological diagnosis could be established for 7.7% of the patients.CONCLUSIONS: In patients with drug-resistant focal epilepsy requiring surgery, hippocampal sclerosis was the most common histopathological diagnosis among adults, and focal cortical dysplasia was the most common diagnosis among children. Tumors were the second most common lesion in both groups. (Funded by the European Union and others.). labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Age of Onset#Brain#Brain Neoplasms#Child#Databases as Topic#Epilepsy#Europe#Female#Hippocampus#Humans#Male#Malformations of Cortical Development#Temporal Lobe'
b'BACKGROUND: Neurosurgical treatment may improve seizures in children and adolescents with drug-resistant epilepsy, but additional data are needed from randomized trials.METHODS: In this single-center trial, we randomly assigned 116 patients who were 18 years of age or younger with drug-resistant epilepsy to undergo brain surgery appropriate to the underlying cause of epilepsy along with appropriate medical therapy (surgery group, 57 patients) or to receive medical therapy alone (medical-therapy group, 59 patients). The patients in the medical-therapy group were assigned to a waiting list for surgery. The primary outcome was freedom from seizures at 12 months. Secondary outcomes were the score on the Hague Seizure Severity scale, the Binet-Kamat intelligence quotient, the social quotient on the Vineland Social Maturity Scale, and scores on the Child Behavior Checklist and the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory.RESULTS: At 12 months, freedom from seizures occurred in 44 patients (77%) in the surgery group and in 4 (7%) in the medical-therapy group (P<0.001). Between-group differences in the change from baseline to 12 months significantly favored surgery with respect to the score on the Hague Seizure Severity scale (difference, 19.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 15.8 to 23.1; P<0.001), on the Child Behavior Checklist (difference, 13.1; 95% CI, 10.7 to 15.6; P<0.001), on the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (difference, 21.9; 95% CI, 16.4 to 27.6; P<0.001), and on the Vineland Social Maturity Scale (difference, 4.7; 95% CI, 0.4 to 9.1; P=0.03), but not on the Binet-Kamat intelligence quotient (difference, 2.5; 95% CI, -0.1 to 5.1; P=0.06). Serious adverse events occurred in 19 patients (33%) in the surgery group, including hemiparesis in 15 (26%).CONCLUSIONS: In this single-center trial, children and adolescents with drug-resistant epilepsy who had undergone epilepsy surgery had a significantly higher rate of freedom from seizures and better scores with respect to behavior and quality of life than did those who continued medical therapy alone at 12 months. Surgery resulted in anticipated neurologic deficits related to the region of brain resection. (Funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research and others; Clinical Trial Registry-India number, CTRI/2010/091/000525 .). labels: #Adolescent#Anterior Temporal Lobectomy#Anticonvulsants#Child#Child Behavior#Child, Preschool#Cognitive Dysfunction#Drug Resistance#Epilepsy#Female#Humans#Infant#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Movement Disorders#Paresis#Postoperative Complications#Quality of Life#Seizures#Surveys and Questionnaires#Temporal Lobe#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Chromosomal rearrangements involving 17q23 have been described rarely. Deletions at 17q23.1q23.2 have been reported in individuals with developmental delay and growth retardation, whereas duplications at 17q23.1q23.2 appear to segregate with clubfoot. Dosage alterations in the TBX2 and TBX4 genes, located in 17q23.2, have been proposed to be responsible for the phenotypes observed in individuals with 17q23.1q23.2 deletions and duplications. In this report, we present the clinical phenotype of a child with a previously unreported de novo duplication at 17q23.2q23.3 located distal to the TBX2 and TBX4 region.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 7.5-year-old boy with speech and language disorder, learning difficulties, incoordination, fine motor skill impairment, infrequent seizures with abnormal EEG, and behavior disturbances (mild self-inflicted injuries, hyperactivity-inattention, and stereotyped hand movements). Chromosomal microarray revealed a 2-Mb duplication of chromosome 17q23.2q23.3. Both parents did not have the duplication indicating that this duplication is de novo in the child.CONCLUSIONS: The duplicated region encompasses 16 genes. It is possible that increased dosage of one or more genes in this region is responsible for the observed phenotype. The TANC2 gene is one of the genes in the duplicated region.It encodes a member of the TANC (tetratricopeptide repeat, ankyrin repeat and coiled-coil containing) family which includes TANC1 and TANC2. These proteins are highly expressed in brain and play major roles in synapsis regulation. Hence, it is suggestive that TANC2 is the likely candidate gene responsible for the observed phenotype as an increased TANC2 dosage can potentially alter synapsis, resulting in neuronal dysfunction and the neurobehavioral phenotype observed in this child with 17q23.2q23.3 duplication. labels: #Ataxia#Child#Chromosome Duplication#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17#Developmental Disabilities#Electroencephalography#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression#Humans#Learning Disorders#Male#Phenotype#Proteins#Psychomotor Disorders#Seizures#Self-Injurious Behavior#Speech Disorders'
b'BACKGROUND: Rumex crispus root has traditionally been used in Asian medicine for the treatment of hemorrhage and dermatolosis. The aim of this study was to explore the pharmaceutical effects of water extract of Rumex crispus (WERC) on osteoblast and osteoclast differentiation. We also studied the effect of WERC on the receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL)-induced trabecular bone destruction mice model.METHODS: High performance liquid chromatography analysis was used to identify three compounds (emodin, chrysophanol, and physcion) of WERC. The in vivo effect of WERC was examined using an administration of WERC or vehicle on the ICR mice with bone loss induced by intraperitoneal RANKL injection on day 0 and 1. All mice were sacrificed by cervical dislocation at day 7 and the femurs of mice were isolated for soft X-ray and Micro-CT analysis. The in vitro effect of WERC on osteoblast mineralization or osteoclast differentiation was examined by alizarin red S staining or by tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase staining and assay. To determine the transcription level of osteoblast or osteoclast-specific genes, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used. Western blot analysis was performed to study the effect of WERC on mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) or nuclear factor-\xce\xbaB (NF-\xce\xbaB) signaling molecules.RESULTS: The presence of three compounds in WERC was determined. WERC significantly suppressed RANKL-induced trabecular bone loss by preventing microstructural deterioration. In vitro, WERC increased osteoblast mineralization by enhancing the transcription of runt-related transcription factor 2 and its transcriptional coactivators, and by stimulating extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation. Furthermore, WERC significantly inhibited osteoclast differentiation by suppressing the activation of the RANKL signalings (MAPK and NF-\xce\xbaB) and the increasing inhibitory factors of nuclear factor of activated T cells cytoplasmic 1.CONCLUSION: This study showed that WERC could protect against osteoporosis and suggested that the possible mechanism of WERC might be related to increased osteoblast differentiation by activating Runx2 signaling and inhibition of osteoclast differentiation by suppression of RANKL signaling. labels: #Animals#Bone Resorption#Calcification, Physiologic#Cell Differentiation#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred ICR#NFATC Transcription Factors#Osteoblasts#Osteoclasts#Osteogenesis#Plant Extracts#Rumex'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Guideline recommendations for the same clinical condition may vary. The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of agreement among comparable asthma and bronchiolitis treatment recommendations from guidelines.METHODS: National and international guidelines were searched by using guideline databases (eg, National Guidelines Clearinghouse: December 16-17, 2014, and January 9, 2015). Guideline recommendations were categorized as (1) recommend, (2) optionally recommend, (3) abstain from recommending, (4) recommend against a treatment, and (5) not addressed by the guideline. The degree of agreement between recommendations was evaluated by using an unweighted and weighted \xce\xba score. Pairwise comparisons of the guidelines were evaluated similarly.RESULTS: There were 7 guidelines for asthma and 4 guidelines for bronchiolitis. For asthma, there were 166 recommendation topics, with 69 recommendation topics given in \xe2\x89\xa52 guidelines. For bronchiolitis, there were 46 recommendation topics, with 21 recommendation topics provided in \xe2\x89\xa52 guidelines. The overall \xce\xba for asthma was 0.03, both unweighted (95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.01 to 0.07) and weighted (95% CI: -0.01 to 0.10); for bronchiolitis, it was 0.32 unweighted (95% CI: 0.16 to 0.52) and 0.15 weighted (95% CI: -0.01 to 0.5).CONCLUSIONS: Less agreement was found in national and international guidelines for asthma than for bronchiolitis. Additional studies are needed to determine if differences are based on patient preferences and values and economic considerations or if other recommendation-level, guideline-level, and condition-level factors are driving these differences. labels: #Asthma#Bronchiolitis#Databases, Factual#Humans#Internationality#Practice Guidelines as Topic'
b'FBXW7 (F-box and WD repeat domain containing-7) is a tumor suppressor protein that regulates the degradation of various oncoproteins in several malignancies. However, limited information is available regarding FBXW7 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the clinical significance of FBXW7 expression in oral squamous cell carcinoma. The FBXW7 expression patterns in oral squamous cell carcinoma and adjacent normal tissues from 15 patients who underwent radical resection were evaluated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical staining. In addition, immunohistochemistry was performed using paraffin-embedded sections from biopsy specimens obtained from 110 patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma who underwent surgery after 5 fluorouracil-based chemoradiotherapy. The associations of FBXW7 expression with various clinicopathological features and prognosis were evaluated in these patients. As a results, in the 15 matched samples, the FBXW7 expression was significantly decreased in the oral squamous cell carcinoma tissues compared to that in the adjacent normal tissues. In the clinicopathological analysis, compared to high protein expression, low FBXW7 expression was found to significantly associate with a poor histological response to preoperative chemoradiotherapy. Kaplan-Meier curve analysis revealed that low FBXW7 expression was significantly associated with a poor prognosis, and FBXW7 expression was found to be an independent predictor of overall survival in the multivariate analysis. Our results suggest that FBXW7 may function as a tumor suppressor protein in oral squamous cell carcinoma. In addition, FBXW7 could be a potential biomarker for predicting not only the clinical response to chemoradiotherapy but also overall survival in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#F-Box Proteins#F-Box-WD Repeat-Containing Protein 7#Female#Fluorouracil#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Mouth Neoplasms#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma is the most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide. The lifestyle, food habits, and customary practices manifest the Northeast Indian population toward higher susceptibility to develop head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Here, we have investigated the association of smoke and smokeless tobacco, and alcohol with copy number variation of cell-free mitochondrial DNA and cell-free nuclear DNA in cases and controls. Cell-free DNA from plasma was isolated from 50 head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cases and 50 controls with informed written consent using QIAamp Circulating Nucleic Acid Kit. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was done for copy number variation in cell-free mitochondrial DNA and cell-free nuclear DNA. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed to evaluate the diagnostic application between the two study groups using clinicopathological parameters. The levels of cell-free nuclear DNA and cell-free mitochondrial DNA of cases in association with smoke and smokeless tobacco, alcohol with smoking (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) were significantly higher (p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01 and p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001, respectively) than controls. Using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis between head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cases and controls, we distinguished cell-free mitochondrial DNA (cutoff: 19.84 raw Ct; sensitivity: 84%; specificity: 100%; p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001) and cell-free nuclear DNA (cutoff: 463,282\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL; sensitivity: 53%; specificity: 87%; p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.001). The copy number variation in cases (cell-free nuclear DNA: 5451.66\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL and cell-free mitochondrial DNA: 29,103,476.15\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL) and controls (cell-free nuclear DNA: 1650.9\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL and cell-free mitochondrial DNA: 9,189,312.54\xe2\x80\x89genomic equivalent/mL), respectively. Our result indicates that the cell-free mitochondrial DNA content is highly associated with smoke and smokeless tobacco, betel quid chewing, and alcohol which shows greater promises, holding the key characteristics of diagnostic biomarkers, that is, minimal invasiveness, high specificity, and sensitivity. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alcohol Drinking#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA, Mitochondrial#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#India#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Smoking#Tobacco, Smokeless'
b'A repertoire of monoclonal antibodies was generated by immunization of mice with cancer-associated glycoprotein CA19.9, and two of them were selected as optimal capture and detecting counterparts for sandwich test system for detection of CA19.9. Fine epitope specificity of the antibodies was determined using printed glycan array, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and inhibitory enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Unexpectedly, both immunoglobulins did not bind key epitope of CA19.9 glycoprotein, tetrasaccharide SiaLeA, as well as its defucosylated form sialyl LeC(known as CA-50 epitope). The antibodies were found to have different glycan-binding profiles; however, they recognized similar glycotopes with common motif Gal\xce\xb21-3GlcNAc\xce\xb2 (LeC), thus resembling specificity of human natural cancer-associated anti-LeCantibodies. We propose that cancer-specific glycopeptide epitope includes Gal\xce\xb21-3GlcNAc\xce\xb2 fragment of a glycoprotein O-chain in combination with proximal hydrophobic amino acid(s) of the polypeptide chain. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#CA-19-9 Antigen#Epitopes#Glycopeptides#Humans#Mice#N-Acetylneuraminic Acid#Neoplasms#Trisaccharides'
b'Previous in vitro studies have demonstrated that miR-144 inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. We have shown that miR-144, injected intravenously, is taken up by the liver and induces endogenous hepatic synthesis of miR-144. We hypothesized that administered miR-144 has tumor-suppressive effects on liver tumor development in vivo. The effects of miR-144 on tumorigenesis and tumor growth were tested in a diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. MiR-144 injection had no effect on body weight but significantly reduced diethylnitrosamine-induced liver enlargement compared with scrambled microRNA. MiR-144 had no effect on diethylnitrosamine-induced liver tumor number but reduced the tumor size above 50%, as evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (scrambled microRNA 23.07\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x895.67 vs miR-144 10.38\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.62, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05) and histological analysis (scrambled microRNA 30.75\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x895.41 vs miR-144 15.20\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x893.41, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05). The levels of miR-144 was suppressed in tumor tissue compared with non-tumor tissue in all treatment groups (diethylnitrosamine-phosphate-buffered saline non-tumor 1.05\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.09 vs tumor 0.54\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.08, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01; diethylnitrosamine-scrambled microRNA non-tumor 1.23\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.33 vs tumor 0.44\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x890.10, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.05; diethylnitrosamine-miR-144 non-tumor 54.72\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8911.80 vs tumor 11.66\xe2\x80\x89\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x892.75, p\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x890.01), but injection of miR-144 greatly increased miR-144 levels both in tumor and non-tumor tissues. Mechanistic studies showed that miR-144 targets epidermal growth factor receptor and inhibits the downstream Src/AKT signaling pathway which has previously been implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma tumorigenesis. Exogenously delivered miR-144 may be a therapeutic strategy to suppress tumor growth in hepatocellular carcinoma. labels: #Administration, Intravenous#Animals#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cell Proliferation#Diethylnitrosamine#Disease Models, Animal#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver#Liver Neoplasms#Mice#MicroRNAs'
b'Protein structural changes induced by external perturbations or internal cues can profoundly influence protein activity and thus modulate cellular physiology. A number of biophysical approaches are available to probe protein structural changes, but these are not applicable to a whole proteome in a biological extract. Limited proteolysis-coupled mass spectrometry (LiP-MS) is a recently developed proteomics approach that enables the identification of protein structural changes directly in their complex biological context on a proteome-wide scale. After perturbations of interest, proteome extracts are subjected to a double-protease digestion step with a nonspecific protease applied under native conditions, followed by complete digestion with the sequence-specific protease trypsin under denaturing conditions. This sequential treatment generates structure-specific peptides amenable to bottom-up MS analysis. Next, a proteomics workflow involving shotgun or targeted MS and label-free quantification is applied to measure structure-dependent proteolytic patterns directly in the proteome extract. Possible applications of LiP-MS include discovery of perturbation-induced protein structural alterations, identification of drug targets, detection of disease-associated protein structural states, and analysis of protein aggregates directly in biological samples. The approach also enables identification of the specific protein regions involved in the structural transition or affected by the binding event. Sample preparation takes approximately 2 d, followed by one to several days of MS and data analysis time, depending on the number of samples analyzed. Scientists with basic biochemistry training can implement the sample preparation steps. MS measurement and data analysis require a background in proteomics. labels: #Biomarkers#Complex Mixtures#Drug Design#Endopeptidase K#Ficain#HeLa Cells#Humans#Pronase#Protein Structure, Secondary#Protein Structure, Tertiary#Proteolysis#Proteome#Proteomics#Quality Control#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Tandem Mass Spectrometry#Thermolysin#Trypsin'
b"The adoption of and opportunities in continuous flow synthesis ('flow chemistry') have increased significantly over the past several years. Continuous flow systems provide improved reaction safety and accelerated reaction kinetics, and have synthesised several active pharmaceutical ingredients in automated reconfigurable systems. Although continuous flow platforms are commercially available, systems constructed 'in-lab' provide researchers with a flexible, versatile, and cost-effective alternative. Herein, we describe the assembly and use of a modular continuous flow apparatus from readily available and affordable parts in as little as 30 min. Once assembled, the synthesis of a sulfonamide by reacting 4-chlorobenzenesulfonyl chloride with dibenzylamine in a single reactor coil with an in-line quench is presented. This example reaction offers the opportunity to learn several important skills including reactor construction, charging of a back-pressure regulator, assembly of stainless-steel syringes, assembly of a continuous flow system with multiple junctions, and yield determination. From our extensive experience of single-step and multistep continuous flow synthesis, we also describe solutions to commonly encountered technical problems such as precipitation of solids ('clogging') and reactor failure. Following this protocol, a nonspecialist can assemble a continuous flow system from reactor coils, syringes, pumps, in-line liquid-liquid separators, drying columns, back-pressure regulators, static mixers, and packed-bed reactors. labels: #Benzylamines#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Chlorobenzenes#Kinetics#Rheology#Sulfonamides"
b'Glycobiology, in particular the study of carbohydrate-protein interactions and the events that follow, has become an important research focus in recent decades. To study these interactions, many assays require homogeneous glycoconjugates in suitable amounts. Their synthesis is one of the methodological challenges of glycobiology. Here, we describe a versatile, three-stage protocol for the formation of glycoconjugates from unprotected carbohydrates, including those purified from natural sources, as exemplified here by rhizobial Nod factors and exopolysaccharide fragments. The first stage is to add an oligo(ethylene glycol) linker (OEG-linker) that has a terminal triphenylmethanethiol group to the reducing end of the oligosaccharide by oxime formation catalyzed by aniline. The triphenylmethyl (trityl) tag is then removed from the linker to expose a thiol (stage 2) to allow a conjugation reaction at the thiol group (stage 3). There are many possible conjugation reactions, depending on the desired application. Examples shown in this protocol are as follows: (i) coupling of the oligosaccharide to a support for surface plasmon resonance (SPR) studies, (ii) fluorescence labeling for microscale thermophoresis (MST) or bioimaging, and (iii) biotinylation for biolayer interferometry (BLI) studies. This protocol starts from unprotected carbohydrates and provides glycoconjugates in milligram amounts in just 2 d. labels: #Aniline Compounds#Biotinylation#Catalysis#Chemistry Techniques, Synthetic#Glycoconjugates#Glycomics#Interferometry#Lipopolysaccharides#Optical Imaging#Oximes#Polyethylene Glycols#Protein Binding#Sulfhydryl Compounds#Surface Plasmon Resonance#Trityl Compounds'
b'Importance: Robotic rectal cancer surgery is gaining popularity, but limited data are available regarding safety and efficacy.Objective: To compare robotic-assisted vs conventional laparoscopic surgery for risk of conversion to open laparotomy among patients undergoing resection for rectal cancer.Design, Setting, and Participants: Randomized clinical trial comparing robotic-assisted vs conventional laparoscopic surgery among 471 patients with rectal adenocarcinoma suitable for curative resection conducted at 29 sites across 10 countries, including 40 surgeons. Recruitment of patients was from January 7, 2011, to September 30, 2014, follow-up was conducted at 30 days and 6 months, and final follow-up was on June 16, 2015.Interventions: Patients were randomized to robotic-assisted (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89237) or conventional (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89234) laparoscopic rectal cancer resection, performed by either high (upper rectum) or low (total rectum) anterior resection or abdominoperineal resection (rectum and perineum).Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome was conversion to open laparotomy. Secondary end points included intraoperative and postoperative complications, circumferential resection margin positivity (CRM+) and other pathological outcomes, quality of life (36-Item Short Form Survey and 20-item Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory), bladder and sexual dysfunction (International Prostate Symptom Score, International Index of Erectile Function, and Female Sexual Function Index), and oncological outcomes.Results: Among 471 randomized patients (mean [SD] age, 64.9 [11.0]years; 320 [67.9%] men), 466 (98.9%) completed the study. The overall rate of conversion to open laparotomy was 10.1%: 19 of 236 patients (8.1%) in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group and 28 of 230 patients (12.2%) in the conventional laparoscopic group (unadjusted risk difference\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894.1% [95% CI, -1.4% to 9.6%]; adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.61 [95% CI, 0.31 to 1.21]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.16). The overall CRM+ rate was 5.7%; CRM+ occurred in 14 (6.3%) of 224 patients in the conventional laparoscopic group and 12 (5.1%) of 235 patients in the robotic-assisted laparoscopic group (unadjusted risk difference\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.1% [95% CI, -3.1% to 5.4%]; adjusted odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.78 [95% CI, 0.35 to 1.76]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.56). Of the other 8 reported prespecified secondary end points, including intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, plane of surgery, 30-day mortality, bladder dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, none showed a statistically significant difference between groups.Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients with rectal adenocarcinoma suitable for curative resection, robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, as compared with conventional laparoscopic surgery, did not significantly reduce the risk of conversion to open laparotomy. These findings suggest that robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, when performed by surgeons with varying experience with robotic surgery, does not confer an advantage in rectal cancer resection.Trial Registration: isrctn.org Identifier: ISRCTN80500123. labels: #Aged#Conversion to Open Surgery#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Direct Service Costs#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Laparotomy#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Rectal Neoplasms#Risk#Robotic Surgical Procedures'
b'Importance: Use of robotic surgery has increased in urological practice over the last decade. However, the use, outcomes, and costs of robotic nephrectomy are unknown.Objectives: To examine the trend in use of robotic-assisted operations for radical nephrectomy in the United States and to compare the perioperative outcomes and costs with laparoscopic radical nephrectomy.Design, Setting, and Participants: This retrospective cohort study used the Premier Healthcare database to evaluate outcomes of patients who had undergone robotic-assisted or laparoscopic radical nephrectomy for renal mass at 416 US hospitals between January 2003 and September 2015. Multivariable regression modeling was used to assess outcomes.Exposures: Robotic-assisted vs laparoscopic radical nephrectomy.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcome of the study was the trend in use of robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy. The secondary outcomes were perioperative complications, based on the Clavien classification system, and defined as any complication (Clavien grades 1-5) or major complications (Clavien grades 3-5, for which grade 5 results in death); resource use (operating time, blood transfusion, length of hospital stay); and direct hospital cost.Results: Among 23\xe2\x80\xaf753 patients included in the study (mean age, 61.4 years; men, 13\xe2\x80\xaf792 [58.1%]), 18\xe2\x80\xaf573 underwent laparoscopic radical nephrectomy and 5180 underwent robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy. Use of robotic-assisted surgery increased from 1.5% (39 of 2676 radical nephrectomy procedures in 2003) to 27.0% (862 of 3194 radical nephrectomy procedures) in 2015 (P for trend<.001). In the weighted-adjusted analysis, there were no significant differences between robotic-assisted and laparoscopic radical nephrectomy in the incidence of any (Clavien grades 1-5) postoperative complications (adjusted rates, 22.2% vs 23.4%, difference, -1.2%; 95% CI, -5.4 to 3.0%) or major (Clavien grades 3-5) complications (adjusted rates, 3.5% vs 3.8%, difference, -0.3%; 95% CI, -1.0% to 0.5%). The rate of prolonged operating time (>4 hours) for patients undergoing the robotic-assisted procedure was higher than for patients receiving the laparoscopic procedure in the adjusted analysis (46.3% vs 25.8%; risk difference, 20.5%; 95% CI, 14.2% to 26.8%). Robotic-assisted radical nephrectomy was associated with higher mean 90-day direct hospital costs ($19\xe2\x80\xaf530 vs $16\xe2\x80\xaf851; difference, $2678; 95% CI, $838 to $4519), mainly accounted for operating room ($7217 vs $5378; difference, $1839; 95% CI, $1050 to $2628) and supply costs ($4876 vs $3891; difference, $985; 95% CI, $473 to $1498).Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients undergoing radical nephrectomy for renal mass between 2003 and 2015, the use of robotic-assisted surgery increased substantially. The use of robotic-assistance was not associated with increased risk of any or major complications but was associated with prolonged operating time and higher hospital costs compared with laparoscopic surgery. labels: #Aged#Female#Hospital Costs#Humans#Kidney Diseases#Laparoscopy#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrectomy#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Robotic Surgical Procedures#United States'
b'Importance: Prehospital blood product transfusion in trauma care remains controversial due to poor-quality evidence and cost. Sequential expansion of blood transfusion capability after 2012 to deployed military medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) units enabled a concurrent cohort study to focus on the timing as well as the location of the initial transfusion.Objective: To examine the association of prehospital transfusion and time to initial transfusion with injury survival.Design, Setting, and Participants: Retrospective cohort study of US military combat casualties in Afghanistan between April 1, 2012, and August 7, 2015. Eligible patients were rescued alive by MEDEVAC from point of injury with either (1) a traumatic limb amputation at or above the knee or elbow or (2) shock defined as a systolic blood pressure of less than 90 mm Hg or a heart rate greater than 120 beats per minute.Exposures: Initiation of prehospital transfusion and time from MEDEVAC rescue to first transfusion, regardless of location (ie, prior to or during hospitalization). Transfusion recipients were compared with nonrecipients (unexposed) for whom transfusion was delayed or not given.Main Outcomes and Measures: Mortality at 24 hours and 30 days after MEDEVAC rescue were coprimary outcomes. To balance injury severity, nonrecipients of prehospital transfusion were frequency matched to recipients by mechanism of injury, prehospital shock, severity of limb amputation, head injury, and torso hemorrhage. Cox regression was stratified by matched groups and also adjusted for age, injury year, transport team, tourniquet use, and time to MEDEVAC rescue.Results: Of 502 patients (median age, 25 years [interquartile range, 22 to 29 years]; 98% male), 3 of 55 prehospital transfusion recipients (5%) and 85 of 447 nonrecipients (19%) died within 24 hours of MEDEVAC rescue (between-group difference, -14% [95% CI, -21% to -6%]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.01). By day 30, 6 recipients (11%) and 102 nonrecipients (23%) died (between-group difference, -12% [95% CI, -21% to -2%]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.04). For the 386 patients without missing covariate data among the 400 patients within the matched groups, the adjusted hazard ratio for mortality associated with prehospital transfusion was 0.26 (95% CI, 0.08 to 0.84, P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.02) over 24 hours (3 deaths among 54 recipients vs 67 deaths among 332 matched nonrecipients) and 0.39 (95% CI, 0.16 to 0.92, P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.03) over 30 days (6 vs 76 deaths, respectively). Time to initial transfusion, regardless of location (prehospital or during hospitalization), was associated with reduced 24-hour mortality only up to 15 minutes after MEDEVAC rescue (median, 36 minutes after injury; adjusted hazard ratio, 0.17 [95% CI, 0.04 to 0.73], P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.02; there were 2 deaths among 62 recipients vs 68 deaths among 324 delayed transfusion recipients or nonrecipients).Conclusions and Relevance: Among medically evacuated US military combat causalities in Afghanistan, blood product transfusion prehospital or within minutes of injury was associated with greater 24-hour and 30-day survival than delayed transfusion or no transfusion. The findings support prehospital transfusion in this setting. labels: #Adult#Afghan Campaign 2001-#Air Ambulances#Blood Transfusion#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Humans#Male#Military Medicine#Military Personnel#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Time-to-Treatment#United States#Wounds and Injuries#Young Adult'
b"Importance: Hypothermia initiated at less than 6 hours after birth reduces death or disability for infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy at 36 weeks' or later gestation. To our knowledge, hypothermia trials have not been performed in infants presenting after 6 hours.Objective: To estimate the probability that hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth reduces the risk of death or disability at 18 months among infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy.Design, Setting, and Participants: A randomized clinical trial was conducted between April 2008 and June 2016 among infants at 36 weeks' or later gestation with moderate or severe hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy enrolled at 6 to 24 hours after birth. Twenty-one US Neonatal Research Network centers participated. Bayesian analyses were prespecified given the anticipated limited sample size.Interventions: Targeted esophageal temperature was used in 168 infants. Eighty-three hypothermic infants were maintained at 33.5\xc2\xb0C (acceptable range, 33\xc2\xb0C-34\xc2\xb0C) for 96 hours and then rewarmed. Eighty-five noncooled infants were maintained at 37.0\xc2\xb0C (acceptable range, 36.5\xc2\xb0C-37.3\xc2\xb0C).Main Outcomes and Measures: The composite of death or disability (moderate or severe) at 18 to 22 months adjusted for level of encephalopathy and age at randomization.Results: Hypothermic and noncooled infants were term (mean [SD], 39 [2]and 39 [1] weeks' gestation, respectively), and 47 of 83 (57%) and 55 of 85 (65%) were male, respectively. Both groups were acidemic at birth, predominantly transferred to the treating center with moderate encephalopathy, and were randomizedat a mean (SD) of 16 (5) and 15 (5) hours for hypothermic and noncooled groups, respectively. The primary outcome occurred in 19 of 78 hypothermic infants (24.4%) and 22 of 79 noncooled infants (27.9%) (absolute difference, 3.5%; 95% CI, -1% to 17%). Bayesian analysis using a neutral prior indicated a 76% posterior probability of reduced death or disability with hypothermia relative to the noncooled group (adjusted posterior risk ratio, 0.86; 95% credible interval, 0.58-1.29). The probability that death or disability in cooled infants was at least 1%, 2%, or 3% less than noncooled infants was 71%, 64%, and 56%, respectively.Conclusions and Relevance: Among term infants with hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth compared with noncooling resulted in a 76% probability of any reduction in death or disability, and a 64% probability of at least 2% less death or disability at 18 to 22 months. Hypothermia initiated at 6 to 24 hours after birth may have benefit but there is uncertainty in its effectiveness.Trial Registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00614744. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Developmental Disabilities#Female#Gestational Age#Humans#Hypothermia, Induced#Hypoxia-Ischemia, Brain#Infant, Newborn#Male#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Time-to-Treatment"
b'All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), the most biologically active metabolite of vitamin A, is known to activate p14 expression via promoter hypermethylation to induce p53-dependent apoptosis in human hepatocytes. In this study, we found that the oncogenic hepatitis B virus (HBV) X protein (HBx) of HBV, derived from both overexpression and 1.2-mer replicon systems, suppresses ATRA-induced apoptosis in p53-positive human hepatocytes. For this effect, HBx upregulated both protein and enzyme activity levels of DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a and 3b, in the presence of ATRA and thereby inhibited p14 expression via promoter hypermethylation, resulting in inactivation of the p14-mouse double minute 2 pathway and subsequent downregulation of p53 levels. As a result, HBx was able to impair the potential of ATRA to activate apoptosis-related molecules, including Bax, p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis, caspase-9, caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. In conclusion, the present study provides a new oncogenic action mechanism of HBx, namely by suppressing the anticancer potential of ATRA to induce p53-dependent apoptosis in HBV-infected hepatocytes. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line#Cell Survival#DNA Methylation#Down-Regulation#Genes, Tumor Suppressor#Hepatocytes#Humans#Oncogene Proteins#Trans-Activators#Tretinoin'
b'BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) occurs in both adults and children but the response to chemotherapy and survival is significantly worse in the adults. We aimed to study whether the expression of immune system-associated miRNAs would differ between adult and pediatric patients with ALL at the time of diagnosis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Inflammation-associated miRNA analysis was performed in 19 adults and 79 pediatric patients with ALL and involved miR-10, miR-15, miR-16, miR-17-92 cluster, miR-33, miR-146a, miR-150, miR-155, miR-181a, miR-222, miR-223, and miR-339. MiRNAs were first analyzed by miRNA microarray and thereafter validated by qRT-PCR. Sufficient RNA for qRT-PCR was available for 42 pediatric and 19 adult patients.RESULTS: Of the studied miRNAs, only miR-18a differed significantly in microarray analysis between adult and pediatric ALL, being lower in children (FC, -3.74; P, 0.0037). Results were confirmed by qRT-PCR (down-regulated in pediatric patients, P 0.003161). The other members of the miR-17-92 cluster did not differ significantly.CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric and adult patients with ALL have remarkably similar patterns of immune-cell-associated miRNAs in their bone marrow at diagnosis. However, the low expression of miR-18a in pediatric ALL is interesting and demands further study. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Bone Marrow#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Chromosome Aberrations#Computational Biology#Female#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Leukemic#Humans#Infant#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#RNA Interference#RNA, Messenger#Reproducibility of Results'
b"BACKGROUND: Immunosuppressive therapy (IST) is the standard treatment for aplastic anemia (AA) children who lack a sibling donor, but the clinical response rate to IST varies. Predictors of response to IST are valuable for stratifying AA patients and making clinical decisions.METHODS: The serum interleukin (IL)-6 levels of 41 AA patients were measured at the time of diagnosis and the response rate of the patients to IST was evaluated at 3, 6, and 12 months after IST. Receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) analysis was used to calculate the predictive value of initial IL-6 levels in determining response at 6 months after IST.RESULTS: The initial IL-6 levels were significant higher in responders than nonresponders at 6 months after IST (211.89 vs. 18.09\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL; P=0.005), using 36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL as a threshold, there were 80% sensitivity and 81% specificity for discriminating responders and nonresponders to IST. Patients with initial high IL-6 level (>36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL) have favorable response rates than those with initial low IL-6 level (<36.8\xe2\x80\x89pg/mL) at 3, 6, and 12 months after IST (P<0.01).CONCLUSION: High levels of IL-6 at the time of diagnosis predict a favorable response to IST in children with AA and this may be helpful for patient's stratification and clinical decisions. labels: #Adolescent#Anemia, Aplastic#Biomarkers#Blood Cell Count#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Interleukin-6#Male#ROC Curve#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome"
b'Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is a widely used agent as the first choice of treatment of immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). IVIG has several side effects, but it is a relatively safe treatment. Life-threatening thrombosis has been reported in adults and rarely in children. We report a case of a 14-year-old boy with dural venous sinus thrombosis and pulmonary embolism after treatment with IVIG for ITP. The patient was treated with low-molecular-weight heparin followed by warfarin and the symptoms were recovered. If a patient with ITP shows mental change or respiratory difficulty, we should consider thrombosis as well as hemorrhage. labels: #Adolescent#Anticoagulants#Biopsy#Bone Marrow#Hematologic Tests#Heparin, Low-Molecular-Weight#Humans#Immunoglobulins, Intravenous#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Male#Pulmonary Embolism#Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic#Sinus Thrombosis, Intracranial#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Venous Thrombosis#Warfarin'
b'BACKGROUND: Patients managed nonoperatively have been excluded from risk-adjusted benchmarking programs, including the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP). Consequently, optimal performance evaluation is not possible for specialties like emergency general surgery (EGS) where nonoperative management is common. We developed a multi-institutional EGS clinical data registry within ACS NSQIP that includes patients managed nonoperatively to evaluate variability in nonoperative care across hospitals and identify gaps in performance assessment that occur when only operative cases are considered.METHODS: Using ACS NSQIP infrastructure and methodology, surgical consultations for acute appendicitis, acute cholecystitis, and small bowel obstruction (SBO) were sampled at 13 hospitals that volunteered to participate in the EGS clinical data registry. Standard NSQIP variables and 16 EGS-specific variables were abstracted with 30-day follow-up. To determine the influence of complications in nonoperative patients, rates of adverse outcomes were identified, and hospitals were ranked by performance with and then without including nonoperative cases.RESULTS: Two thousand ninety-one patients with EGS diagnoses were included, 46.6% with appendicitis, 24.3% with cholecystitis, and 29.1% with SBO. The overall rate of nonoperative management was 27.4%, 6.6% for appendicitis, 16.5% for cholecystitis, and 69.9% for SBO. Despite comprising only 27.4% of patients in the EGS pilot, nonoperative management accounted for 67.7% of deaths, 34.3% of serious morbidities, and 41.8% of hospital readmissions. After adjusting for patient characteristics and hospital diagnosis mix, addition of nonoperative management to hospital performance assessment resulted in 12 of 13 hospitals changing performance rank, with four hospitals changing by three or more positions.CONCLUSION: This study identifies a gap in performance evaluation when nonoperative patients are excluded from surgical quality assessment and demonstrates the feasibility of incorporating nonoperative care into existing surgical quality initiatives. Broadening the scope of hospital performance assessment to include nonoperative management creates an opportunity to improve the care of all surgical patients, not just those who have an operation.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Care management, level IV; Epidemiologic, level III. labels: #Appendicitis#Benchmarking#Cholecystitis#Emergency Medicine#Female#General Surgery#Humans#Intestinal Obstruction#Intestine, Small#Male#Pilot Projects#Quality Improvement'
b'BACKGROUND: Child abuse remains a national epidemic that has detrimental effects if unnoticed in the clinical setting. Extreme cases of child abuse, or nonaccidental trauma (NAT), have large financial burdens associated with them due to treatment costs and long-term effects of abuse. Clinicians who have additional training and experience with pediatric trauma are better equipped to detect signs of NAT and have more experience reporting it. This additional training and experience can be measured by using the American College of Surgeons (ACS) Pediatric Trauma verification. It is hypothesized that ACS-verified pediatric trauma centers (vPTCs) have an increased prevalence of NAT because of this additional experience and training relative to non-ACS vPTCs.METHODS: The National Trauma Data Bank, for the years 2007 to 2014, was utilized to compare the prevalence of NAT between ACS vPTCs relative to non-ACS vPTCs to produce both crude and Injury Severity Score adjusted prevalence ratio estimates.RESULTS: The majority of NAT cases across all hospitals were male (58.3%). The mean age of the NAT cases was 2.3 years with a mean Injury Severity Score (ISS) of 11.1. The most common payment method was Medicaid (64.4%). The prevalence of NAT was 1.82 (1.74-1.90) times higher among ACS vPTCs and 1.81 (1.73-1.90) after adjusting for ISS.CONCLUSIONS: The greater prevalence of NAT at vPTCs likely represents a more accurate measure of NAT among pediatric trauma patients, likely due to more experience and training of clinicians.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic/Epidemiological, Level II. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child Abuse#Child, Preschool#Female#Hospitals, Pediatric#Humans#Infant#Injury Severity Score#Linear Models#Male#Medicaid#Prevalence#Trauma Centers#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Direct-to-implant breast reconstruction offers time-saving advantages over two-stage techniques. However, use of direct-to-implant reconstruction remains limited, in part, because of concerns over complication rates., The authors' aim was to compare 2-year complications and patient-reported outcomes for direct-to-implant versus tissue expander/implant reconstruction.METHODS: Patients undergoing immediate direct-to-implant or tissue expander/implant reconstruction were enrolled in the Mastectomy Reconstruction Outcomes Consortium, an 11-center prospective cohort study. Complications and patient-reported outcomes (using the BREAST-Q questionnaire) were evaluated. Outcomes were compared using mixed-effects regression models, adjusting for demographic and clinical characteristics.RESULTS: Of 1427 patients, 99 underwent direct-to-implant reconstruction and 1328 underwent tissue expander/implant reconstruction. Two years after reconstruction and controlling for covariates, direct-to-implant and tissue expander/implant reconstruction patients did not show statistically significant differences in any complications, including infection. Multivariable analyses found no significant differences between the two groups in patient-reported outcomes, with the exception of sexual well-being, where direct-to-implant patients fared better than the tissue expander/implant cohort (p = 0.047).CONCLUSIONS: This prospective, multi-institutional study showed no statistically significant differences between direct-to-implant and tissue expander/implant reconstruction, in either complication rates or most patient-reported outcomes at 2 years postoperatively. Direct-to-implant reconstruction appears to be a viable alternative to expander/implant reconstruction. This analysis provides new evidence on which to base reconstructive decisions.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, II. labels: #Adult#Breast Implantation#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Logistic Models#Mastectomy#Middle Aged#Patient Reported Outcome Measures#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Regression Analysis#Tissue Expansion"
b'BACKGROUND: The double capsule is a complication mostly described in aggressive macrotextured implants. Mechanical shear stress applied onto an immature periprosthetic capsule has been linked to their formation. The authors aim to demonstrate the role of bacterial phenotype and biofilm in the development of the double capsule.METHODS: Seven double capsules formed at the interface of macrotextured breast expander implants were studied using scanning electron microscopy. Two samples for each surface of the inner capsule layer (the prosthesis interface and the intercapsular space) were analyzed for bacteria cell size, bacterial density, and biofilm deposition.RESULTS: Although all routine bacterial cultures were negative, the prosthesis interface had both higher bacteria load and biofilm deposition compared with the intercapsular space (Mann-Whitney U test, p = 0.004 and p = 0.008, respectively). Moreover, bacteria cell sizes were significantly smaller at the prosthesis interface in six of seven samples. Comparison of bacteria density and biofilm dispersion showed an increase of biofilm extracellular matrix deposition over 2000 cells/mm (linear regression, p = 0.0025). These results indicate a common trend among bacteria species.CONCLUSIONS: Bacterial expression between the different surfaces of the double capsule displays significant differences; bacteria at the prosthesis interface are mostly in a biofilm state, whereas they demonstrate a planktonic phenotype at the intercapsular space. When a sufficient amount of bacteria are present at a specific location, quorum sensing may trigger a biofilm phenotypic switch in planktonic bacteria cells. Biofilm formation may alter capsule formation through immune response, thereby weakening capsule strength and facilitating extracellular matrix delamination and double-capsule formation.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adult#Biofilms#Breast Implantation#Breast Implants#Female#Foreign-Body Reaction#Humans#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Tissue Expansion#Tissue Expansion Devices'
b'BACKGROUND: Modern breast reconstruction often involves microvascular reconstruction. The most common recipient vessels are the internal mammary artery and vein. Recently, there has been great focus on efficiency, but much of this emphasis has been directed to faster flap harvest or recovery protocols for expeditious discharge. An equally important aspect is internal mammary vessel preparation.METHODS: Breast reconstruction was performed in 415 patients (715 breasts) using autologous tissue (850 flaps) from 2012 to 2016. In 97.6 percent of these breast reconstructions, the internal mammary vessels were used. The preparation of these vessels was routinely performed using the five-step technique described here.RESULTS: Internal mammary preparation time ranged from 7 to 45 minutes (median, 15 minutes). The procedure involves five simplified steps, as follows: step 1, the rib is exposed by splitting the pectoralis major muscle; step 2, the perichondrium anterior to the cartilage is incised and dissected away from the cartilage; step 3, the cartilage is removed with a rongeur; step 4, laterally the perichondrium is elevated and incised (under direct vision, this perichondrium is then split directly over the vessels and the cranial and caudal flaps are resected); and step 5, careful dissection is performed on the artery and vein.CONCLUSIONS: Safe preparation of recipient vessels in microvascular reconstruction is essential for success. In modern breast reconstruction, the internal mammary artery and vein are typically used. Exposure of these vessels should be predictable and efficient. The authors have found that a systematic approach using the above five steps accomplishes these goals. labels: #Dissection#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mammary Arteries#Operative Time#Surgical Flaps'
b"The American Society of Plastic Surgeons commissioned a multistakeholder Work Group to develop recommendations for autologous breast reconstruction with abdominal flaps. A systematic literature review was performed and a stringent appraisal process was used to rate the quality of relevant scientific research. The Work Group assigned to draft this guideline was unable to find evidence of superiority of one technique over the other (deep inferior epigastric perforator versus pedicled transverse rectus abdominis musculocutaneous flap) in autologous tissue reconstruction of the breast after mastectomy. Presently, based on the evidence reported here, the Work Group recommends that surgeons contemplating breast reconstruction on their next patient consider the following: the patient's preferences and risk factors, the setting in which the surgeon works (academic versus community practice), resources available, the evidence shown in this guideline, and, equally important, the surgeon's technical expertise. Although theoretical superiority of one technique may exist, this remains to be reported in the literature, and future methodologically robust studies are needed. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Epigastric Arteries#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mastectomy#Patient Satisfaction#Postoperative Complications#Rectus Abdominis#Reoperation#Surgical Flaps"
b"BACKGROUND: In their descriptions of the ideal breast, most studies have focused primarily on the dimensions, shape, and proportions. The distance between the breasts has only very rarely been considered. The intermammary distance and the medial symmetry between the breasts are important parts of the outcome of surgery and have a strong bearing on patient satisfaction. However, the control surgeons have over these factors is only relative, and depends heavily on the underlying anatomical characteristics of the patients.METHODS: Eighty-six patients undergoing breast augmentation, breast reduction, or mastopexy and breast reconstruction with separated or asymmetric breasts underwent fat grafting in the medial quadrants. Intermammary distances were measured before fat grafting and 12 months later. Complications were also recorded.RESULTS: This technique obtained a statistically significant reduction in the mean intermammary distance (p<0.0001) from 3 \xc2\xb1 0.6 cm (range, 1.6 to 5 cm) to 1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.4 cm (range, 1 to 2.8 cm) at 12-month follow-up. There were no major complications: one capsular contracture in a breast reconstruction requiring capsulotomy and an oil cyst requiring aspiration were reported.CONCLUSION: The authors' technique allows safe remodeling of the medial cleavage of the breast, reducing the intermammary distance and optimizing the symmetry between the breasts.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, IV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Breast#Esthetics#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Mammaplasty#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Satisfaction#Prospective Studies#Subcutaneous Fat#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: The traditional abdominoplasty is one of the most common surgical procedures performed. This study evaluates the impact of different surgical techniques and clinical patient factors on abdominoplasty outcomes.METHODS: A retrospective review of consecutive patients undergoing abdominoplasty was performed.RESULTS: Seven hundred seventy-nine patients with a mean age of 43.7 years and a body mass index of 27 kg/m underwent abdominoplasty. The majority were women (92.9 percent), and massive weight loss was present in 34.8 percent. Abdominoplasty techniques included traditional (59.4 percent), belt lipectomy (17.9 percent), fleur-de-lis (16.4 percent), umbilical float (9.2 percent), and mini-abdominoplasty (2.8 percent). Half of the study population [n = 384 (49.3 percent)] had concurrent surgical procedures. Total complications (23.0 percent) consisted primarily of wound- and scar-related complications (15.3 percent). Approximately 60 percent of patients received heparin chemoprophylaxis, with overall thromboembolic and hematoma rates less than 1 percent. Univariate analysis revealed that massive weight loss (p = 0.04), fleur-de-lis (p = 0.03) or belt lipectomy (p = 0.05) techniques, and concurrent medial thigh lift(p<0.001) all significantly increased complications. Previous scars, amount of weight loss, operative time, liposuction, and other concurrent procedures did not affect total complications. Male sex (OR, 1.96; p = 0.04), fleur-de-lis technique (OR, 1.71; p = 0.04), and medial thigh lift (OR, 3.3; p<0.001) were independent risk factors for total postoperative complications.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that abdominoplasty alone or in combination with liposuction and aesthetic breast surgery can be performed safely, with an acceptable complication profile.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, III. labels: #Abdominoplasty#Adult#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hospitals, General#Humans#Lipectomy#Male#Mammaplasty#Massachusetts#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND: There are instances where small or large pockets are filled with diced cartilage in the nose, without use of wrapping materials. For this purpose, 1-cc commercial syringes were used. The obtained results were partial and incomplete. For better and improved results, the author designed new syringes, with two different sizes, which compress the diced cartilage for injection.METHODS: The author presents his experience accrued over the past 12 years with 2366 primary, 749 secondary, 67 cleft lip and nose, and a total of 3182 rhinoplasties, using his new syringe design, which compresses diced cartilage and injects the diced cartilages as a conglutinate mass, simulating carved costal cartilage, but a malleable one.RESULTS: In 3125 patients, the take of cartilage graft was complete (98.2 percent) and a smooth surface was obtained, giving them a natural appearance. In 21 patients (0.65 percent), there was partial resorption of cartilage. Correction was performed with touch-up surgery by reinjection of a small amount of diced cartilage. In 36 patients (1.13 percent), there was overcorrection that, 1 year later, was treated by simple rasping.CONCLUSIONS: Compared with diced cartilage wrapped with Surgicel or fascia, the amount of injected cartilage graft is predictable because it consists purely of cartilage. The injected diced cartilage, because it is compressed and becomes a conglutinated mass, resembles a wood chip and simulates carved cartilage. It is superior to carved cartilage in that it is moldable, time saving, and gives a good result with no late show or warping. The injection takes only a few minutes. labels: #Adult#Cartilage#Female#Humans#Injections#Rhinoplasty#Syringes'
b'Alar flare is a common feature that contributes to the width of the lower third of the nose. In the right patient, alar flare reduction can improve nasal harmony and facial aesthetic balance; however, it is also difficult to correct if conducted inappropriately or overzealously. The unique anatomy and diverse morphologies of the alar lobule, and the dynamic relationship between flare and changes in tip projection, must be considered. The authors provide guidelines for flare reduction: when it is appropriate and how to tailor the excision pattern to safely and effectively refine nasal width. Alar flare is classified into three types according to alar rim shape on basal view analysis. By designing the excision pattern based on specific flare type, the lower third of the nose is narrowed without creating an operated appearance.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Nose#Rhinoplasty'
b'Despite the growth of technically more sophisticated skin resurfacing modalities, such as those based on light, radiofrequency, and ultrasound, chemical peel procedures have risen 5 to 25 percent over the past year alone. Chemexfoliation carries historical significance and has markedly evolved since its inception in ancient times. As a result of plastic surgery and dermatologic advancements, modern-day chemexfoliation offers plastic surgeons additional safe and effective options for patients with rhytides, dyschromias, and other signs of light- and environment-induced skin damage. This review discusses the historical evolution of chemexfoliation procedures, highlights modern-day practice habits, and touches on the clinically relevant applications of chemical peels. labels: #Chemexfoliation#Europe#History, 16th Century#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#History, 21st Century#History, Ancient#Humans#Rejuvenation#United States'
b'The treatment of nasomaxillary hypoplasia is challenging. The phenotype of Binder "syndrome" includes the following: midfacial hypoplasia, class III malocclusion, small or absent anterior nasal spine, flattened nose, horizontal nostrils, short columella, acute nasolabial angle, and a flat frontonasal angle. A staged approach is used, with orthognathic surgery to achieve vertical maxillary length and sagittal advancement, followed by rhinoplasty aimed to increase nasal tip projection, rotation, and columellar length. This article details the diagnosis and treatment of nasomaxillary hypoplasia, demonstrating the senior author\'s (D.M.S.) preferred approach and technical steps.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adolescent#Female#Humans#Maxillofacial Abnormalities#Orthognathic Surgical Procedures#Rhinoplasty'
b'BACKGROUND: Wide variations in fat graft survival have been reported. The authors hypothesize that treating the adipose tissue on Telfa gauze creates a processed lipoaspirate with a more functional adipokine profile that improves fat graft survival.METHODS: Suction-assisted lipoaspirate was harvested from humans and was either processed by centrifugation, rolled on Telfa gauze, or left unprocessed. Progenitor cell populations were quantified and characterized by flow cytometry. Glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase assay was used to measure the functional adipocytes. The lipoaspirates were grafted into (n = 45) wild-type mice and harvested to assess fat graft persistence. Vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor-BB secretions were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique.RESULTS: Centrifuged lipoaspirate had a greater number of progenitor cells per gram of tissue than Telfa-processed and unprocessed lipoaspirate. However, Telfa-processed lipoaspirate had a greater number of functional adipocytes (0.104 U/ml) than centrifuged (0.080 U/ml) and unprocessed lipoaspirate (0.083 U/ml) on glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase assay (p<0.05). After 10 weeks of grafting, it had greater fat graft persistence (70.9 \xc2\xb1 6.2 percent) than centrifuged (56.7 \xc2\xb1 5.5 percent) and unprocessed lipoaspirate (42.2 \xc2\xb1 2.7 percent) (p<0.05). It also maintained a greater secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor-BB at weeks 1 and 2 than centrifuged and unprocessed lipoaspirate. Furthermore, CD31 staining demonstrated an increase in vascular density of the Telfa-processed lipoaspirate at week 2 compared with the centrifuged lipoaspirate (37 \xc2\xb1 1 percent and 14 \xc2\xb1 4 percent per high-power field; p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Lipoaspirate processing technique has a significant impact on fat graft survival rate. Increasing the number of functional adipocytes by processing the fat on Telfa gauze may augment the secretion of angiogenic and mitogenic adipokines within the graft, thereby improving its survivability.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, V. labels: #Adipocytes#Adipokines#Adult#Animals#Biomarkers#Centrifugation#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique#Graft Survival#Humans#Lipectomy#Male#Mice#Middle Aged#Specimen Handling#Subcutaneous Fat#Transplantation, Heterologous'
b"BACKGROUND: Understanding the precise anatomy in experimental animals is crucial for correct design of research projects. Rats are commonly used for scientific research in plastic surgery because of their availability in academic institutions, moderate cost, and sizable vessels for microsurgical procedures. In past publications about rat anatomy, lymphatic mapping has been limited and incomplete. The aim of this study was to comprehensively map the superficial lymphatic system in the rat.METHODS: Twenty-seven Sprague-Dawley rats were used for this study. Indocyanine green fluorescence lymphography was used to identify the lymphatic vessels and lymph nodes. Under general anaesthesia, indocyanine green was injected intradermally at multiple spots along the dorsal and medial midlines, front and hind paws, ears, and tail. The course of the lymphatic vessels was traced on the skin with a marker pen and photographed. The superficial lymphatic vessels in each rat were sketched on a graphic template and all of the templates were superimposed using graphics software to define the relationship between the lymphatic vessel and sentinel node.RESULTS: Indocyanine green fluorescence lymphography was able to demonstrate the superficial lymphatic vessels in the rat. Six groups of regional lymph node/s were identified and lymphatic pathways to those nodes delineated. The authors' lymphosome concept was successfully applied to the rat, with six lymphosomes identified.CONCLUSIONS: The authors succeeded in performing superficial lymphatic mapping in the rat. The authors' anatomical findings can provide further information about the lymphatic system in the normal state and promote understanding of pathologic changes generated by surgical manipulation for future studies. labels: #Animals#Female#Fluorescent Dyes#Indocyanine Green#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Vessels#Lymphography#Male#Models, Animal#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Skin"
b'BACKGROUND: Although surgical excision and intralesional collagenase injection are mainstays in Dupuytren disease treatment, no effective medical therapy exists for recurrent disease. Compound 21, a selective agonist of the angiotensin II type 2 receptor, has been shown to protect against fibrosis in models of myocardial infarction and stroke. The authors investigated the potential use of compound 21 in the treatment of Dupuytren disease.METHODS: Human dermal fibroblasts were treated in vitro with compound 21 and assessed for viability using a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, migration by means of scratch assay, and profibrotic gene transcription by means of quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Compound 21 effects in vivo were assessed using a xenograft model. Dupuytren disease cord specimens from patients undergoing open partial fasciectomy were divided into two segments. Segments were implanted under the dorsal skin of nude mouse pairs. Beginning on day 5, one mouse from each pair received daily intraperitoneal injections of compound 21 (10 \xce\xbcg/kg/day), and the other received vehicle. On day 10, segments were explanted and submitted for immunohistochemistry.RESULTS: Human dermal fibroblasts treated with compound 21 displayed decreased migration and decreased gene expression of connective tissue growth factor, fibroblast specific protein-1, transforming growth factor-\xce\xb21, Smad3, and Smad4. Dupuytren disease segments from compound 21-treated mice demonstrated significantly reduced alpha-smooth muscle actin and Ki67 staining, with increased density of CD31 staining vessels.CONCLUSIONS: Compound 21 significantly decreases expression of profibrotic genes and decreases myofibroblast proliferation as indicated by reduced Ki67 and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. These findings support compound 21 as a potential novel treatment modality for Dupuytren disease. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Biomarkers#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Cells, Cultured#Drug Administration Schedule#Dupuytren Contracture#Female#Fibroblasts#Humans#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Random Allocation#Receptor, Angiotensin, Type 2#Sulfonamides#Thiophenes'
b'BACKGROUND: The Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant associated with proximal row carpectomy has been used to treat symptomatic advanced carpal collapse, widening the indications of proximal row carpectomy to patients with capitate head arthritis. The authors retrospectively compared their case series of implant versus carpectomy alone, analyzing whether prosthetic implant outcomes could be similar to those of proximal row carpectomy even with a higher stage of osteoarthritis.METHODS: Fifty-seven patients who underwent surgery for wrist osteoarthritis (minimum follow-up, 2 years) were selected retrospectively. Twenty-five patients (scapholunate advanced collapse/scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse stage III to IV and Kienb\xc3\xb6ck disease stage IV) underwent proximal row carpectomy plus Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant (group A); 32 patients (scapholunate advanced collapse/scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse stage I to II and Kienb\xc3\xb6ck disease stage III) underwent carpectomy alone (group B). Mean follow-up was 33 months. Patients were evaluated clinically and radiographically. Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation and Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire scores were assessed.RESULTS: Group A showed consistent pain relief (visual analogue scale score of 2), while preserving wrist mobility (flexion, 27 degrees; extension, 33 degrees) and grip strength (54 percent compared with the contralateral side). Average Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand questionnaire score was 20, and average Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation score was 28. No statistically significant difference was observed between groups for all outcomes, except for better extension (p<0.05) in group B.CONCLUSIONS: Even starting from a higher grade of osteoarthritis, Resurfacing Capitate Pyrocarbon Implant plus proximal row carpectomy showed satisfying results, compared with those obtained with just carpectomy. Data show that indications for proximal row carpectomy can be widened by using the implant, without worsening outcomes. The implant could be a useful alternative to more aggressive salvage procedures in case of capitate head and lunate fossa osteoarthritis involvement.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement#Carbon#Carpal Bones#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Joint Prosthesis#Male#Middle Aged#Osteoarthritis#Radiography#Retrospective Studies#Wrist Joint'
b"BACKGROUND: The effects of orthognathic surgery go beyond objective cephalometric correction of facial and dental disproportion and malocclusion, respectively. The authors hypothesized that there is tangible improvement following surgery that alters publicly perceived personality traits and emotions.METHODS: The authors used Amazon.com's Mechanical Turk (MTurk), a crowdsourcing tool, to determine how preoperative and postoperative images of orthognathic surgery patients were perceived on six personality traits and six emotional expressions based on posteroanterior and lateral photographs. Blinded respondents provided demographic information and were randomly assigned to one of two sets of 20 photographs (10 subjects before and after surgery).RESULTS: Data on 20 orthognathic surgery patients were collected from 476 individuals. The majority of participants were female (52.6 percent), 18 to 39 years old (67.9 percent), Caucasian (76.6 percent), had some college or technical training or graduated college (72.7 percent), and had an annual income between $20,000 and $99,999 (74.6 percent). A paired t test analysis found that subjects were perceived significantly more favorably after orthognathic surgery in 12 countenance categories: more dominant, trustworthy, friendly, intelligent, attractive, and happy; and also less threatening, angry, surprised, sad, afraid, and disgusted (p<0.05). Raters with the highest annual income perceived a greater magnitude of dominance after surgery than those earning less (p<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: There is significant improvement in the countenance of patients after orthognathic surgery, with both perceived personality traits and emotions deemed more favorable. Additional work is needed to better understand the physiologic underpinnings of such findings. Crowdsourcing technology offers a unique opportunity for surgeons to gather data regarding laypeople's perceptions of surgical outcomes in areas such as orthognathic surgery. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Crowdsourcing#Emotions#Facial Expression#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Orthognathic Surgical Procedures#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Personality#Postoperative Period#Preoperative Period#Single-Blind Method#Social Perception#United States#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: The relationships between hospital/surgeon characteristics and operative outcomes and cost are being scrutinized increasingly. In patients with craniosynostosis specifically, the relationship between hospital volume and outcomes has yet to be characterized.METHODS: Subjects undergoing craniosynostosis surgery between 2004 and 2015 were identified in the Pediatric Health Information System. Outcomes were compared between two exposure groups, those undergoing treatment at a high-volume institution (>40 cases per year), and those undergoing treatment at a low-volume institution (40 cases per year). Primary outcomes were any complication, prolonged length of stay, and increased total cost.RESULTS: Over 13,000 patients (n = 13,112) from 49 institutions met inclusion criteria. In multivariate regression analyses, subjects treated in high-volume centers were less likely to experience any complication (OR, 0.764; p<0.001), were less likely to have an extended length of stay (OR, 0.624; p<0.001), and were less likely to have increased total cost (OR, 0.596; p<0.001). Subjects undergoing strip craniectomy in high-volume centers were also less likely to have any complication (OR, 0.708; p = 0.018) or increased total cost (OR, 0.51; p<0.001). Subjects undergoing midvault reconstruction in high-volume centers were less likely to experience any complications (OR, 0.696; p = 0.002), have an extended length of stay (OR, 0.542; p<0.001), or have increased total cost (OR, 0.495; p<0.001).CONCLUSION: In hospitals performing a high volume of craniosynostosis surgery, subjects had significantly decreased odds of experiencing a complication, prolonged length of stay, or increased total cost compared with those undergoing treatment in low-volume institutions.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic, III. labels: #Child, Preschool#Craniosynostoses#Databases, Factual#Female#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Hospitals, Pediatric#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Length of Stay#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Orthopedic Procedures#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Postoperative Complications#United States'
b'To make three-dimensional computer-assisted elastic models for the face, we decided on five requirements: (1) an elastic texture like skin and subcutaneous tissue; (2) the ability to take pen marking for incisions; (3) the ability to be cut with a surgical knife; (4) the ability to keep stitches in place for a long time; and (5) a layered structure. After testing many elastic solvents, we have made realistic three-dimensional computer-assisted two-layer elastic models of the face and cleft lip from the computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging stereolithographic data. The surface layer is made of polyurethane and the inner layer is silicone. Using this elastic model, we taught residents and young doctors how to make several typical local flaps and to perform cheiloplasty. They could experience realistic simulated surgery and understand three-dimensional movement of the flaps. labels: #Cleft Lip#Face#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Infant#Japan#Lip#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Models, Anatomic#Polyurethanes#Printing, Three-Dimensional#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Silicones#Simulation Training#Surgical Flaps#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b"BACKGROUND: Open tibia fractures are commonly stratified by the Gustilo classification, an orthopedic grading system that does not incorporate the presence of arterial injury when limb perfusion is intact. In the authors' experience, however, the presence of arterial injury appears to negatively impact microsurgical outcomes.METHODS: In a retrospective review of 806 lower extremity reconstructions between 1979 and 2016, 361 soft-tissue flaps performed for Gustilo type IIIB/C coverage met inclusion criteria. Patient demographics, flap characteristics, and outcomes were analyzed.RESULTS: Most patients suffered type IIIB [n = 332 (91.9 percent)] injuries; 29 (8.0 percent) had type IIIC injuries. Preoperative angiography [n = 243 (67.3 percent)]demonstrated arterial injury in 126 (51.8 percent); 27 arterial injuries were identified intraoperatively; and the overall incidence was 153 of 361 (42.4 percent). Complications occurred in 143 flaps (39.6 percent) and included 37 partial losses (10.2 percent) and 31 total losses (8.6 percent). Injured recipient arteries [n = 62 (17.2 percent)] had more complications (p = 0.004); specifically, increased take-backs (p = 0.009). Decreasing vessel runoff increased the risk of complications (p = 0.025), take-backs (p = 0.007), and total flap failures (p = 0.024) accordingly. Specifically, among grade IIIB injuries, controlling for age, sex, time since injury, and vein number, single-vessel runoff was associated with higher rates of complications (relative risk, 3.07; p = 0.012), take-backs (relative risk, 3.43; p = 0.013), and total flap failures (relative risk, 4.80; p = 0.010) compared with three-vessel runoff.CONCLUSIONS: Arterial injury was common among Gustilo type IIIB patients and correlated with increased reconstructive complications. Nonischemic arterial injury appears to negatively impact reconstructive outcomes and should be accounted for when considering free tissue transfer for lower extremity salvage. The authors propose a 3-2-1 modification of the Gustilo type IIIB classification to incorporate degree of arterial injury, as it appears to add prognostic value and certainly influences the reconstructive plan.CLINICAL QUESTION/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Risk, IV. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arteries#Child#Female#Fibula#Fractures, Open#Free Tissue Flaps#Humans#Leg Injuries#Limb Salvage#Male#Middle Aged#Popliteal Artery#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Tibial Arteries#Tibial Fractures#Trauma Severity Indices#Treatment Outcome#Vascular System Injuries#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: Many plastic surgeons use social media as a marketing tool to attract and retain patients, but information about how patients use social media and their preferred types of plastic surgery posts have been lacking.METHODS: To investigate patients' preferred social media networks and the type of posts they wished to see, a cross-sectional study was conducted in a single aesthetic practice of two plastic surgeons by surveying 100 consecutive patients.RESULTS: The age of the patients averaged 44.4 years (range, 17 to 78 years). Facebook had the greatest patient use and engagement, with YouTube second in use, and Instagram second in number of engaged users. Over half used Pinterest, but with little daily engagement. Only one-fourth used Snapchat, but the percentage of users who were highly engaged was second only to Facebook. The least popular network was Twitter, with the fewest patient users and least engagement. Social media played a minor role compared with the practice's Web site in both influencing patients to choose the practice and providing information on the day of the appointment. Patients most wanted to see posts on a plastic surgeon's social media platform related to practice information, before-and-after photographs, and contests. Articles about plastic surgery held the least interest. Among five types of Web site content, patients expressed most interest in before-and-after photographs.CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to articulate the plastic surgery patient perspective regarding social media. The findings aim to help plastic surgeons maximize their influence on their target audience. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#California#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Male#Marketing of Health Services#Middle Aged#Patient Preference#Physician-Patient Relations#Social Media#Surgery, Plastic#Young Adult"
b"BACKGROUND: The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education and Plastic Surgery Milestone Project has identified practice-based learning and improvement, which involves systematically analyzing current practices and implementing changes, as a core competency in residency education. In surgical care, complication reporting is an essential component of practice-based learning and improvement as complications are analyzed in morbidity and mortality conference for quality improvement. Unfortunately, current methods for capturing a comprehensive profile of complications may significantly underestimate the true occurrence of complications. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to evaluate an intervention for complication reporting and compare this to current practice, in a plastic surgery training program.METHODS: This is a preintervention and postintervention study evaluating resident reporting of complications on a plastic surgery service. The intervention was an online event reporting system developed by department leadership and patient safety experts. The cohorts consisted of all patients undergoing surgery during two separate 3-month blocks bridged by an implementation period. A trained reviewer recorded complications, and this served as the reference standard. Fisher's exact test was used for binary comparisons.RESULTS: There were 32 complications detected in 219 patients from June to August of 2015 and 35 complications in 202 patients from October to December of 2015. The proportion of complications reported in the preintervention group was nine of 32 (28.1 percent). After the intervention, this significantly increased to 32 of 35 (91.4 percent) (p<0.001).CONCLUSION: An intervention using an event reporting system, supported by departmental leadership, led to significant improvements in complication reporting by plastic surgery residents. labels: #Clinical Competence#Data Collection#Documentation#Humans#Internet#Internship and Residency#Medical Records Systems, Computerized#Missouri#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Pediatrics#Postoperative Complications#Quality Improvement#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgery, Plastic"
b"Virtual reality and augmented reality devices have recently been described in the surgical literature. The authors have previously explored various iterations of these devices, and although they show promise, it has become clear that virtual reality and/or augmented reality devices alone do not adequately meet the demands of surgeons. The solution may lie in a hybrid technology known as mixed reality, which merges many virtual reality and augmented realty features. Microsoft's HoloLens, the first commercially available mixed reality device, provides surgeons intraoperative hands-free access to complex data, the real environment, and bidirectional communication. This report describes the use of HoloLens in the operating room to improve decision-making and surgical workflow. The pace of mixed reality-related technological development will undoubtedly be rapid in the coming years, and plastic surgeons are ideally suited to both lead and benefit from this advance. labels: #Clinical Decision-Making#Holography#Humans#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgery, Computer-Assisted#User-Computer Interface#Workflow"
b"RATIONALE: Giant fibrovascular polyps (GFVPs) found in the hypopharynx are exceedingly rare. These are benign tumors which are identified by CT or MRI and usually treated based on symptoms. Even more rarely, pathology may identify one of these masses as an atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT). This paper will present a case of an ALT of the hypopharynx that was originally classified as a GFVP, highlighting the difficulty in distinguishing between them and the importance of making the correct diagnosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: An 84-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 6-month history of a pedunculated hypopharyngeal growth, dysphagia, and intermittent dyspnea.DIAGNOSES: The mass was characterized as a GFVP by barium swallow and MRI.INTERVENTIONS: The hypopharyngeal mass was resected for obstructive symptoms and to confirm the diagnosis. Final pathology found the mass to be more consistent with an atypical lipomatous tumor (ALT).OUTCOMES: The patient's dysphagia and dyspnea resolved. He was free of recurrence at 22 months postoperative.LESSONS: Both GFVPs and ALTs are very rarely found in the hypopharynx but can be easily misclassified as one another. Imaging is useful to initially characterize the mass, but to definitively differentiate between them, pathological analysis is necessary. Although they are rare, it is important to consider both possibilities on the differential for hypopharyngeal masses. Further, accurate analysis is essential to distinguish between them because their definitive management and follow-up is different. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Deglutition Disorders#Diagnosis, Differential#Dyspnea#Humans#Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms#Lipoma#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Polyps"
b'This study aimed to explore the value of contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scans in the differential diagnosis of atypical adenomatous hyperplasia, adenocarcinoma in situ, minimal invasive adenocarcinoma (MIA), and invasive adenocarcinoma (IAC), which manifested as ground glass nodules (GGNs) or mixed GGNs.Unenhanced and contrast-enhanced presurgical CT images of 136 cases of GGNs were compared. The nodules were diagnosed based on their solid portions and maximum dimensions, and the findings obtained using both contrast-enhanced and unenhanced CT images were analyzed in corroboration with the pathological diagnosis.Most (53/56) preinvasive nodules showed increased mean CT values after contrast administration. In the MIA group, after contrast administration, enlargements of the solid portions were seen in 48 nodules (48/60), and the elevation of the mean CT value was observed in 12 nodules (12/60). The vast majority of IAC nodules (29/30) showed enlargement of the solid portions after contrast administration. Moreover, for group differences, findings obtained using this approach statistically match the pathological findings.Contrast-enhanced CT scans are more useful than unenhanced CT scans for the diagnosis of GGNs, especially for pure GGNs, before surgery. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenocarcinoma in Situ#Contrast Media#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Hyperplasia#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Radiographic Image Enhancement#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: We compared the effectiveness and safety of endotracheal intubation using the GlideScope (GS) video laryngoscope, CTrach laryngeal mask airway (LMA), or Shikani optical stylet rigid laryngoscope (SOS) during elective cervical surgery.METHODS: Forty-five patients undergoing elective cervical surgery were randomly and equally assigned to endotracheal intubation via GS, LMA, or SOS airway management.RESULTS: Endotracheal intubation was successfully completed in all patients. The mean intubation times of the groups differed significantly (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01): GS, 17.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.1\xe2\x80\x8as; SOS, 40.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a13.7\xe2\x80\x8as; and LMA, 80.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a22.5\xe2\x80\x8as. The groups had similar heart rates and mean arterial pressures throughout the intubation, except that at 2\xe2\x80\x8aminutes after intubation the mean arterial pressure of the GS group (106.1\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg) was significantly higher than that of the LMA (89.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg) or SOS (89.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a18.5\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01). The change in C2-5 Cobb angle from baseline was significantly higher in the GS group (GS, 34.2\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.3\xc2\xb0) than the LMA (24.4\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5.8\xc2\xb0) or SOS (25.5\xc2\xb0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a6.4\xc2\xb0); P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).CONCLUSIONS: The CTrach LMA and SOS rigid laryngoscope are effective, safe alternatives to the GS video laryngoscope for patients undergoing elective cervical surgery. labels: #Cervical Vertebrae#Female#Hemorrhage#Hoarseness#Humans#Intubation, Intratracheal#Laryngeal Masks#Laryngoscopes#Male#Middle Aged#Pain'
b'Neuroendocrine tumors of the thymus (NETTs) are rare but aggressive, and lead to poor overall survival. This retrospective study was designed to analyze factors that correlate with the prognosis of patients with NETTs.From 1999 to 2015, 41 ongoing patients with NETTs were enrolled in this study. The clinical data and outcome were compiled. Overall survival (OS) rate was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method in univariate analysis and the Cox-model was used in multivariate analysis.Of the 41 NETTs patients analyzed (31 male and 10 female), 12 were typical carcinoma, 14 were atypical carcinoma, 14 were small-cell carcinoma and, 1 was large-cell carcinoma. The median follow-up time was 29 months (range, 9.0-69.0). In total, 25 patients died of cancer-related disease by the last follow-up. The 3- and 5-year survival rates for all patients were 42.7% and 23.4%, respectively. Among the prognostic factors analyzed by multivariate analysis, low tumor grade, complete resection, and a negative chromogranin A (CgA) expression were positively correlated with survival.The surgical treatment of NETTs, CgA negative, and low grade of NETTs were associated with a statistically significant better prognosis. However, large, multicenter studies are required to fully validate these prognostic factors. labels: #Adult#Aged#Chromogranin A#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Grading#Neoplasm Staging#Neuroendocrine Tumors#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Thymus Neoplasms'
b"RATIONALE: Bilateral acute iris transillumination (BAIT) is a poorly-understood ocular syndrome in which patients present with acute iridocyclitis and pigmentary dispersion with or without ocular hypertension. The etiology of the disease remains unknown, though recent reports suggest an antecedent upper respiratory tract infection or systemic antibiotic administration may trigger the clinical syndrome.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old female was referred for a second opinion regarding her bilateral ocular pain, photophobia, and ocular hypertension. Her medical history was notable for a diagnosis of pneumonia managed with oral moxifloxacin several weeks prior to her initial presentation.DIAGNOSES: Visual acuity was 20/40 with an intraocular pressure (IOP) of 30\xe2\x80\x8ammHg in the affected eye despite maximal tolerated medical therapy. The patient had severe bilateral iris transillumination defects with posterior synechiae formation and 3+ pigment with rare cell in the anterior chamber. This constellation of findings was consistent with a diagnosis of BAIT.INTERVENTIONS: A peripheral iridotomy was placed, which mildly relieved the iris bowing, but did not affect the IOP or inflammatory reaction. The patient then underwent cataract extraction with posterior synechiolysis and ab interno trabeculotomy of the left eye with the Trabectome.OUTCOMES: The patient's IOP on the first post-operative day was 13\xe2\x80\x8ammHg, and anterior chamber inflammation was noted to be significantly reduced at post-operative week 2. The patient was recently seen at a 1-year post-operative visit and her IOP remains in the low teens on a low-dose combination topical agent.LESSONS: Ophthalmologists should remain aware of the association between systemic fluoroquinolones and acute pigmentary dispersion that can progress to glaucoma. The Trabectome remains a viable option for management of pigmentary and uveitic glaucoma resistant to medical treatment. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Cataract Extraction#Eye Pain#Female#Fluoroquinolones#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Middle Aged#Ocular Hypertension#Photophobia#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Trabeculectomy"
b'RATIONALE: Primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) is a rare disease of lymphomatous effusion in the body cavities in the absence of detectable mass and lymphadenopathy. PEL is predominantly related to the immunosuppressed patients infected with human herpes virus 8 (HHV-8). PEL-like lymphoma is negative for HHV-8 and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) unlike PEL. The pathogenesis and prognosis of PEL-like lymphoma are unclear and there is no established treatment yet.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 73-year-old male patient was admitted for evaluation of dyspnea on exertion with 1-week duration. His relevant examinations were completed.DIAGNOSES: PEL-like lymphoma was diagnosed.INTERVENTIONS: The patient received chemotherapy including rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP), and palliative whole-brain radiotherapy, sequentially.OUTCOMES: He died 3 months after the diagnosis.LESSON: Although the prognosis of PEL-like lymphoma may be better than PEL, our case showed poor disease course despite chemotherapy. labels: #Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Brain Neoplasms#Cardiac Tamponade#Cyclophosphamide#Doxorubicin#Dyspnea#Herpesvirus 8, Human#Humans#Immunocompetence#Lymphoma, Primary Effusion#Male#Palliative Care#Prednisone#Radiotherapy#Treatment Outcome#Vincristine'
b'RATIONALE: A 33-year-old male presented with complete weakness of the right extremities due to corona radiata infarct.PATIENT CONCERNS: The main concerns of the patient is recovery of hand function especially related to finger extension.DIAGNOSES: Right corona radiata infarct.INTERVENTIONS: He underwent physical therapy and occupational therapy at the outpatient clinic of the rehabilitation department of the same university hospital until 2 years after onset. In addition, he underwent neuromuscular electrical stimulation for the right finger extensors continuously until 4 years after onset.OUTCOMES: At 6 months after onset, the weakness of his right side recovered to subnormal state except for the right finger extensors which were completely weak. At 1.5 years after onset, the right finger extensors began to show slow and continuous recovery. At 4 years after onset, the patient showed motor recovery in the right finger extensors to the extent that he was able to move against gravity. Discontinuation of the left corticospinal tract was observed on 2-month diffusion tensor tractography (DTT); however, the integrity of this discontinuation had recovered to the primary motor cortex on 4-year DTT. On 2-month transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), no motor-evoked potential was evoked; in contrast, motor-evoked potentials were obtained at the right-hand muscle on 4-year TMS study.LESSONS: We demonstrated unusual delayed and long-term recovery of the affected finger extensors in a patient with corona radiata infarct using DTT and TMS. labels: #Adult#Brain Infarction#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Electric Stimulation Therapy#Fingers#Humans#Male#Recovery of Function#Stroke Rehabilitation#Time Factors#Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation'
b'The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic value of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) imaging for differentiating superficial lymph nodes.Virtual touch tissue imaging (VTI) grade and shear wave velocity (SWV) were analyzed and compared in 97 patients (65 women, 32 men; mean age, 49 y; range, 23-72 y) with 97 lymph nodes [23 chronic nonspecific reactive lymph nodes (CLNs), 38 metastatic lymph nodes (MLNs), and 36 blood and lymphatic system diseases lymph nodes (BLLNs)]. The elastography characteristics in patients with CLNs, MLNs, and BLLNs were compared using the nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis test and Mann-Whitney U test for continuous variables and categorical variables. The diagnostic performance of VTI grade and SWV were evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).The median of SWV of MLNs was significantly higher (2.90\xe2\x80\x8am/s) than those of CLNs (2.15\xe2\x80\x8am/s) and BLLNs (2.52\xe2\x80\x8am/s). The VTI grade of MLNs was significantly higher than those of CLNs (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and BLLNs (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and AUC were 81.58%, 95.65%, 86.89%, and 0.904, respectively, at a cutoff level of grade IV for VTI grade in differentiating MLNs from CLNs, whereas those of SWV were 57.89%, 86.96%, 68.85%, and 0.752, respectively, at a cutoff level of 2.76\xe2\x80\x8am/s.The diagnostic performance of VTI grade was significantly higher than that of SWV in differentiating MLNs from CLNs. The diagnostic performance of VTI grade and SWV were lower intermediate in differentiating MLNs from BLLNs and in differentiating BLLNs from CLNs, and there was no significant difference between VTI grade and SWV. ARFI imaging may be a feasible method for differentiating MLNs from CLNs. labels: #Adult#Aged#Diagnosis, Differential#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Hematologic Neoplasms#Humans#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Diseases#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Grading#Ultrasonography#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: We investigated the effects of TRPC1 on epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) in human airway in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).METHODS: A total of 94 patients who underwent lobectomy were selected and divided into COPD (49 cases) and control (45 cases) groups. Immunohistochemistry was applied to detect expression of E-cadherin and vimentin and TRPC1. Correlation of TRPC1 expression with E-cadherin and vimentin expression, and correlations of lung function indicators in COPD patients with expression of TRPC1, E-cadherin, and vimentin were analyzed. Human airway epithelial cells (16HBE) were used for cell experiments; and cigarette smoking extract (CSE) was adopted to establish the COPD model using TRPC1 recombinant plasmids and siRNA. Cells were assigned into the control, CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC, and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-TRPC1 groups. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blot were implemented to detect expression of TRPC1, E-cadherin, and vimentin.RESULTS: Compared with the control group, expression of TRPC1 and vimentin significantly increased while expression of E-cadherin decreased in the COPD group, and protein expression of TRPC1 was positively correlated with the protein expression of vimentin but negatively correlated with the protein expression of E-cadherin. Patients exhibiting positive expression of TRPC1 had lower FEV1, FEV1%Pred, and FEV1/FVC, compared with the patients exhibiting negative expression of TRPC1. Compared with the control group, expression of TRPC1 and vimentin increased, whereas expression of E-cadherin decreased in the CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1, and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups. Compared with the CSE and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector groups, the expression of TRPC1 and vimentin increased but the expression of E-cadherin decreased in the CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTRPC1 group. Compared with the CSE and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups, the expression of TRPC1 and vimentin decreased but the expression of E-cadherin increased in the CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-TRPC1 group. No significant differences were observed among the CSE, CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8avector and CSE\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8asi-NC groups.CONCLUSION: Overexpression of TRPC1 in COPD promoted EMT process and TRPC1 may be a new and interesting focus for COPD new treatment in the future. labels: #Adult#Aged#Blotting, Western#Cadherins#Cells, Cultured#Epithelial Cells#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Female#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lung#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#TRPC Cation Channels#Vimentin'
b"RATIONALE: Renal complications in ankylosing spondylitis (AS) were rarely observed, and proteinuria associated with AS can be seen often due to amyloidosis in this kind of complications, while membranous nephropathy (MN) is seldom considered. This article reports a case of coexistence of AS and MN, to provide the exact relationship of these 2 entities and recognized some causes of renal involvement in AS.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 44-year-old female presented with pain of the left leg for 4 years and pedal edema for 2 weeks.DIAGNOSES: AS was diagnosed according to the patient's clinical manifestation and sacroiliitis observed on computed tomography (CT) scan. Nephrotic syndrome was found and MN was diagnosed according to kidney biopsy in which thickened capillary loops were observed with light microscopy, granular deposits of IgG along the capillary wall were observed using immunofluorescence staining, and subepithelial electron-dense deposits were observed with electron microscopy. No other secondary causes of MN were found on extensive investigations.INTERVENTION: Given the diagnoses, the patient received nonimmunosuppressive therapy for MN and adalimumab for AS.OUTCOMES: The patient got pain relief, as well as urinary protein reduction.LESSONS: This case suggested a secondary MN in association with AS and the relationship between these 2 diseases needed more concern and further illumination. labels: #Adalimumab#Adult#Celecoxib#Cyclooxygenase 2 Inhibitors#Female#Glomerulonephritis, Membranous#Humans#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha"
b"The main objective of this study is to investigate the outcome between surgical procedures and the risk of development of hypoparathyroidism followed by surgical procedure in patients with thyroid disorders.We analyzed the data acquired from Taiwan's Bureau of National Health Insurance (BNHI) research database from 1998 to 2011 and found 9316 patients with thyroid surgery. Cox regression model was used to calculate the hazard ratio (HR).A count of 314 cases (3.4%) of hypoparathyroidism was identified. The 9 years cumulated incidence of hypoparathyroidism was the highest in patient undergone bilateral total thyroidectomy (13.5%) and the lowest in the patient with unilateral subtotal thyroidectomy (1.2%). However, in the patients who had undergone unilateral subtotal, the risk was the highest in bilateral total (HR: 11.86), followed by radical thyroidectomy with unilateral neck lymph node dissection (HR: 8.56), unilateral total (HR, 4.39), and one side total and another side subtotal (HR: 2.80).The extent of thyroid resection determined the risk of development of hypoparathyroidism. It is suggested that the association of these factors is investigated in future studies. labels: #Humans#Hypoparathyroidism#Incidence#Lymph Node Excision#Postoperative Complications#Risk Factors#Taiwan#Thyroid Diseases#Thyroidectomy#Time Factors"
b'We compared the oncological outcomes of sphincter-saving resection (SSR) and abdominoperineal resection (APR) in 409 consecutive patients with very low rectal cancer (i.e., tumors within 3\xe2\x80\x8acm from the anal verge); 335 (81.9%) patients underwent APR and 74 (18.1%) underwent SSR. The APR group comprised higher proportions of men (67.5% vs 55.4%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.049) and advanced-stage patients (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Preoperative chemoradiotherapy (PCRT) was more frequently administered in the SSR group (83.8% vs 52.8%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Overall, the systemic and local recurrence rates were 29.1% and 6.1%, respectively. On stratification according to PCRT and pathologic stage, the mode of surgery did not affect the recurrence type. Moreover, recurrence-free survival (RFS) did not differ according to the mode of surgery in different cancer stages. RFS was associated with ypT and ypN stages in patients who received PCRT, while pN stage, lymphovascular invasion (LVI), and circumferential resection margin (CRM) involvement were risk factors for RFS in those who did not receive PCRT. Notably, SSR was not found to be a risk factor for RFS in either subgroup. Patients who were stratified according to cancer stage and PCRT also showed no differences in RFS according to the mode of surgery. Our results demonstrate that, regardless of PCRT administration, SSR is an effective treatment for very low rectal cancer, while CRM is an important prognostic factor for patients who did not receive PCRT. labels: #Anal Canal#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Capecitabine#Chemoradiotherapy#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Perineum#Rectal Neoplasms#Rectum#Remission Induction#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: We report on a patient with mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) by follow-up diffusion tensor tractography (DTT), and observed for approximately nine monthsby serial diffusion tensor tractography (DTT).PATIENT CONCERNS: A 66-year-old male patient was injured in a car crash. Approximately four weeks after the crash, he developed a tremor in the right hand and leg. His symptoms worsened over time.DIAGNOSES: Approximately six months after the crash, he developed a mild tremor in the left hand. Nine months after the crash, he manifested severe tremor in his right hand, mild resting and intentional tremor in his left hand and both legs, and mild trunkal ataxia.INTERVENTIONS: N/A.OUTCOMES: On 3-week DTT, well reconstructed DRTTs were observed in both hemispheres, except for the thinned lower portion of the right DRTT. On 9-month DTT, the right lower DRTT had thinned compared with the 3-week DTT and showed a disruption at the upper portion. The left DRTT showed thinning in the lower portion and tearing in the upper portion compared with 3-week DTT.LESSONS: Aggravation of an injured DRTT was demonstrated in a patient with mild TBI, using serial DTT examination. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Aged#Ataxia#Brain Concussion#Cerebellar Nuclei#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Efferent Pathways#Follow-Up Studies#Hand#Humans#Leg#Male#Thalamus#Tremor'
b"The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prescription trend and pattern of oral antidiabetic (OAD) medications, which are extensively used worldwide for treating type 2 diabetes, in 2 age groups.In this population-based study, data obtained from the National Health Insurance Research Database, Taiwan, were analyzed to investigate the prescription trend of all types of OAD medications during 2005 to 2012. We used descriptive statistics to demonstrate the trend of prescription patterns stratified by age (aged 65 years and above or younger than 65).Sulfonylurea (SU) was once the most commonly used drug, but the proportion of its prescription had declined gradually (76.83% in 2005 to 63.70% in 2012). Consequently, biguanide (BG) became the most commonly used drug since 2010 (64.31% in 2005 to 74.41% in 2012). In addition, the prescriptions of thiazolidinedione decreased significantly (9.20% in 2005 to 2.86% in 2012), whereas the usage of DPP-4 inhibitor increased with time (3.73% in 2009 to 19.64% in 2012). The treatment choice of SU and \xce\xb1-glucosidase inhibitor (AGI) was higher in elderly patients compared with the younger population (SU: 62.70% in 2012, AGI: 12.78% in 2012). Two-drug combination therapies were the prevalent treatment choices for patients with type 2 diabetes (44.77% in 2012), particularly in the elderly group; however, \xe2\x89\xa53 drug combination therapies increased gradually during the study period, particularly in the younger group.This descriptive study presents the change in the prescription of OAD medication for different age groups during 2005 to 2012. labels: #Administration, Oral#Age Factors#Aged#Biguanides#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dipeptidyl-Peptidase IV Inhibitors#Drug Therapy, Combination#Glycoside Hydrolase Inhibitors#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Middle Aged#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Sulfonylurea Compounds#Taiwan#Thiazolidinediones"
b'Interleukin (IL)-27, one of cytokines in the IL-12 family, is considered to have both pro- and anti-inflammatory properties. However, blood IL-27 levels in coronary artery disease (CAD) have not been fully elucidated yet. This cross-sectional study was done to elucidate the association between blood IL-27 levels and CAD.We investigated plasma IL-27 and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels in 274 consecutive patients who underwent elective coronary angiography for suspected CAD. CAD was present in 177 patients [30 acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and 147 stable CAD]. Compared with 97 patients without CAD, 177 patients with CAD had higher IL-27 (median 0.26 vs 0.22\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and higher hsCRP (0.98 vs 0.41\xe2\x80\x8amg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) levels. However, there was no significant difference in IL-27 levels among 3 groups of ACS, stable CAD, and CAD(-) (0.26, 0.25, and 0.22\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL), whereas hsCRP levels were significantly higher in ACS and stable CAD than in CAD(-) (2.09, 0.91 vs 0.41\xe2\x80\x8amg/L, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and were highest in ACS. IL-27 levels tended to increase with the number of>50% stenotic coronary vessels: 0.22 in CAD(-), 0.22 in 1-vessel disease, 0.31 in 2-vessel disease, and 0.27\xe2\x80\x8ang/mL in 3-vessel disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). A stepwise increase in hsCRP levels was also found: 0.41 in CAD(-), 0.75 in 1-vessel, 1.05 in 2-vessel, and 1.85\xe2\x80\x8amg/L in 3-vessel disease (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Plasma hsCRP levels significantly (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.35), but IL-27 levels weakly (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.15), correlated with the number of stenotic coronary segments. In multivariate analysis, both IL-27 and hsCRP levels were independent factors associated with CAD. However, hsCRP, but not IL-27, was also a factor for ACS.While plasma IL-27 levels were high in patients with CAD, these levels were an independent factor for only CAD, not ACS, and weakly correlated with the severity of CAD. Our results suggest that IL-27 is unlikely to be a good biomarker reflecting the severity of CAD or the presence of ACS, or to play a major role in the progression of CAD. labels: #Acute Coronary Syndrome#Aged#Biomarkers#C-Reactive Protein#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Complications#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Inflammation#Interleukin-27#Male#Middle Aged#Severity of Illness Index'
b'RATIONALE: Abdominal apoplexy is a rare and fatal emergency event, which is coined as a comparison to the cerebrovascular apoplexy. The exact mechanism of abdominal apoplexy was unclear, but arteriosclerosis, hypertension, abdominal aneurysm, and other predisposing angiopathy were considered to be the main reasons of abdominal apoplexy. The development of the imaging technology gave us more opportunities to confirm the diagnosis of abdominal apoplexy. However, the diagnosis and identification of the bleeding sites still continued to be a challenge.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old man presented to the emergency department with chief complains of sudden severe abdominal pain.DIAGNOSIS: The patient was diagnosed as abdominal apoplexy with 2 synchronous bleeding sites.INTERVENTIONS: Angiography confirmed diagnosis of abdominal apoplexy and revealed 2 synchronous bleeding sites in gastroduodenal artery (GDA) and inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery (IPDA). Transcatheter embolization was performed immediately.OUTCOMES: The patient recovered and was discharged very soon. Two months later, the patient totally recovered and the hematoma disappeared in the CT imaging.LESSONS: The reported case is rare, given the very low incidence of abdominal apoplexy with 2 synchronous bleeding sites in GDA and IPDA. The awareness of abdominal apoplexy was still the key point in the management of this disease. Quick diagnosis by the imaging and immediate embolization were very important for the treatment. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Arteries#Duodenum#Embolization, Therapeutic#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreas#Rupture, Spontaneous#Stomach'
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the association between urinary incontinence (UI) and peptic ulcer (PU) and how this is related to psychological stress in Korean women by analyzing the data from the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey IV (KNHANES).A nationally representative sample of data on 7475 Korean women \xe2\x89\xa519 years of age from the KNHANES 2008 to 2010 was included. Physician-diagnosed UI and PU were assessed using questionnaires and surveys. Psychological stress was assessed through a questionnaire using a 4-point Likert scale. Data were analyzed using logistic regression to determine the association between UI and PU according to the level of psychological stress perception.PU was found in 1.41% of the total population. Breaking this down by the existence of UI, PU was found in 3.5% of the population with UI, and 1.4% of the population without UI, which showed a significant difference. A statistically significant trend for increasing prevalence of UI and PU with increasing psychological stress perception levels was found among the study population. Multivariable logistic regression analyses for PU showed that UI was significantly associated with a higher probability of PU in an adjusted model, which means that members of the population with UI were more likely to have PU than those without UI. A higher level of psychological stress perception was also significantly associated with increased odds of PU in the adjusted model.UI could potentiate the development of PU through increasing levels of psychological stress perception. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Nutrition Surveys#Peptic Ulcer#Prevalence#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Statistics as Topic#Stress, Psychological#Surveys and Questionnaires#Urinary Incontinence'
b"BACKGROUND: In the clinical setting, the dispersed practitioners' attention often leads to decreased competence in their performance. We aimed to investigate the effect of distracted practitioners on the quality of chest compression during cardiopulmonary resuscitation.METHODS: A randomized controlled crossover simulation study was conducted. Participants were recruited from among doctors, nurses, and paramedics working in a university tertiary hospital. The paced auditory serial addition test (PASAT) was used as a tool for distracting participants. In the crossover design, each participant played 2 scenarios with a 20-minute time gap, by a random order; 2-minute continuous chest compressions with and without PASAT being conducted. The primary outcome was the percentage of compression with an adequate compression rate. Secondary outcomes were the percentage of compression with adequate depth, the percentage of compression with full chest wall recoil, mean compression rate (per minute), mean compression depth, and subjective difficulty of chest compression.RESULTS: Forty-four participants were enrolled, and all of them completed the study. It was found that the percentage of compression with an adequate compression rate was lower when the PASAT was conducted. Although there was no difference in the percentage of compression with adequate depth (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.88), the percentage of compression with complete chest recoil was lower when PASAT was conducted. In addition, while the mean compression rate was higher when PASAT was conducted, the mean compression depth was not significantly different (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.65). The subjective difficulty was not different (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.69).CONCLUSIONS: Health care providers who are distracted have a negative effect on the quality of chest compression, in terms of its rate and chest wall recoil.TRIAL REGISTRATION: www.ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03124290. labels: #Adult#Attentional Bias#Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Manikins#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Professional Competence#Professionalism#Quality Improvement#Task Performance and Analysis#Time Factors#Work Performance#Workplace"
b'The aim of this study was to investigate the osteoporosis prevalence and the risks of postmenopausal women and elderly men in Gansu province.This cross-sectional study involved 3359 postmenopausal women and 3205 elderly males who were randomly selected from 7 areas in Gansu province. Areal bone mineral density (BMD) (g/cm) was measured at the distal one-third radius of the nonstressed forearm using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA: Osteometer MediTech). Factors related to osteoporosis were analyzed.The prevalence of osteoporosis in the entire study population was 9.65% for postmenopausal women and 8.08% for elderly males by WHO criteria, while the rate of osteopenia were 27.09% for postmenopausal women and 26.68% for elderly males. Risk of osteoporosis was significantly associated with age, menopause age, duration of menopause, body mass index (BMI), educational level, and alcohol consumption in postmenopausal women. In elderly men, age, BMI, current smoking, alcohol consumption, physical activity, and sun exposure were associated with osteoporosis. The bone turnover markers osteocalcin (OC) and C-terminal cross-linked telopeptides of type I collagen (\xce\xb2-CTX) were inversely correlated with BMD in both genders; serum P and 25(OH)D found no significant correlation with BMD. Serum Ca showed a positive effect on BMD in elderly men only.The osteoporosis prevalence of postmenopausal women and the men aged over 60 years in Gansu province is presented. Risk of osteoporosis was significantly associated with age, menopause age, year since menopause, BMI, and educational level in postmenopausal women. In elderly men, age, BMI, and current smoking were associated with osteoporosis. This study also found that higher OC and \xce\xb2-CTX level were associated with lower BMD. Poor 25(OH)D, Ca, P status were not associated with an increased risk of low BMD. labels: #Absorptiometry, Photon#Aged#Biomarkers#Bone Density#China#Collagen Type I#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Life Style#Male#Middle Aged#Osteocalcin#Osteoporosis#Peptides#Postmenopause#Prevalence#Random Allocation#Risk Factors'
b'The aim of this study was to identify clinical signs and symptoms of ovarian torsion (OT) in children and to develop a simple predictive score.A chart review of patients with acute adnexal pathologies treated at the University Children\'s Hospital Basel, Switzerland, between March 2006 and June 2015 was performed. Medical records were screened for demographic and clinical data. These included clinical symptoms, laboratory studies, imaging, and type of treatment. The diagnosis OT was defined as intraoperative visualization of the torsed ovary around its pedicle at least 360 degrees. Variables predictive for OT were identified and the following score for the likelihood of having OT was developed: age (points\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8anumber of years) minus 3 points (if vomitus\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a"yes") and plus 1 point (if "pain duration>12 hours").A total of 80 patients with acute adnexal pathologies were identified. OT was recorded in 17 (21%) cases and ovarian cysts (OC) only in 63 (79%) cases. Patients who presented with OT were significantly younger than patients with OC only (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Correspondingly, 11 (65%) of the patients with OT had no menarche compared to 3 (5%) patients with OC only (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Vomiting (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), a shorter pain duration (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01), and an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01) were observed significantly more often in patients with OT. The sensitivity of a positive OT score was 0.81 and increased to 1.00 if restricted to girls between 2 to 12 years of age.The presence of vomiting, short duration of abdominal pain, and elevated CRP level have a predictive value for the diagnosis of OT. In these patients, an exploratory laparoscopy should be conducted without delay. The presented OT score appears to be a helpful tool in diagnosing OT in children. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Adolescent#C-Reactive Protein#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ovarian Diseases#Ovary#Predictive Value of Tests#Research Design#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity#Switzerland#Symptom Assessment#Torsion Abnormality#Vomiting'
b"The relationship between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after surgery remains uncertain. A retrospective cohort study was performed to evaluate the impact of pre-S deletions, T1762/A1764, and A1896 mutations on prognosis of HCC after curative resection. A total of 113 patients with positive serum HBV DNA (>200\xe2\x80\x8aIU/mL) who had underwent curative resection of pathologically proven HCC were recruited to determine the risk factors affecting the prognosis.The median follow-up time was 36.5 months and recurrence was detected in 67 patients (59.3%). The cumulative recurrence rates and overall survival rates at 1-, 3-, and 5-year after curative resection were 18.0%, 49.7%, 70.3%, and 93.7%, 61.0%, 42.5%, respectively. Patients with pre-S deletions showed significantly higher recurrence rates compared with those with wild type infection (HR: 1.822, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.018), but not related with a significantly poor survival (HR: 1.388, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.235). Subgroup analysis indicated that the patients with type III deletion had significant higher tumor recurrence rates than other deletion types (HR: 2.211, 95% confidence intervals [CI]: 1.008-4.846, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.048). Multivariate analysis revealed that pre-S deletion, tumor size>3\xe2\x80\x8acm in diameter, and the presence of microvascular invasion were independent risk factors for tumor recurrence. HBV pre-S deletions were found to be clustered primarily in the 5' end of pre-S2 region and were more often found between amino acids 120 and 142 of the pre-S2 domain. The domains most frequently potentially involved were the transactivator domain in pre-S2 and polymerized human serum albumin binding site.Our cohort showed that pre-S deletions at the time of resection could predict tumor recurrence in HCC patients after curative resection. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#China#Cohort Studies#DNA, Viral#Female#Hepatectomy#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Sequence Deletion#Statistics as Topic#Survival Analysis"
b'An adhesive small bowel obstruction (ASBO) is generally caused by postoperative adhesions and is more frequently associated with colorectal surgeries than other procedures. We compared the outcomes of operative and conservative management of ASBO after primary colorectal cancer surgery.We retrospectively reviewed 5060 patients who underwent curative surgery for primary colorectal cancer; 388 of these patients (7.7%) were readmitted with a diagnosis of SBO. We analyzed the clinical course of these patients with reference to the cause of their surgery.Of the 388 SBO patients analyzed, 170 were diagnosed with ASBO. Their 3-, 5-, and 7-year recurrence-free survival rates were 86.1%, 72.8%, and 61.5%, respectively. The median follow-up period was 59.2 months. Repeated conservative management for ASBO without surgical management led to higher recurrence rates: 21.0% after the first admission, 41.7% after the second, 60.0% after the third, and 100% after the fourth (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.006). Surgical management was needed for 19.2%, 22.2%, 50%, and 66.7% of patients admitted with ASBO on the first to fourth hospitalizations, respectively. Repeated hospitalization for obstruction led to a greater possibility of surgical management (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Of 27 patients with surgical management at the first admission, 6 (17.6%) were readmitted with a diagnosis of SBO, but there were no further episodes of SBO in the surgically managed patients.Patients who undergo operative management for ASBO have a reduced risk of recurrence requiring hospitalization, whereas those with repeated conservative management have an increased risk of recurrence and require operative management. Operative management should be considered for recurrent SBO. labels: #Adult#Aged#Colorectal Neoplasms#Conservative Treatment#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Intestinal Obstruction#Intestine, Small#Long Term Adverse Effects#Male#Middle Aged#Reoperation#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Tissue Adhesions'
b'BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The approach to small bowel preparation before capsule endoscopy (CE) is still suboptimal.PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred eighty patients were randomly allocated to 3 groups. Patients in Group A took 250\xe2\x80\x8amL 20% mannitol and 1\xe2\x80\x8aL 0.9% saline orally at 05:00\xe2\x80\x8ahours on the day of the procedure. In Group B the same preparation was taken at 20:00 on the day before, and at 05:00 on the day of CE; in addition, 20\xe2\x80\x8amL oral simethicone was taken 30\xe2\x80\x8aminutes before CE. Group C was treated identically to Group B, except that the patients fasted for 3 days and took 3\xe2\x80\x8ag senna orally 3 times daily before CE. The length of bowel containing green luminal contents was assessed by ImageJ software and bowel cleanliness was evaluated by computed assessment of the cleansing score.RESULTS: Cleansing of the whole small bowel and the distal small bowel were significantly different between the 3 groups (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a22.470, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000; \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17.029, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, respectively). There were also significant differences between the 3 groups in the length of small bowel and specifically the length of the distal small bowel containing green luminal contents (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12.390, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a15.141, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.000, respectively), but not with regard to the proximal small bowel (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.678, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.509).CONCLUSIONS: Three days fasting and oral senna, combined with 20% mannitol and simethicone, before CE, can reduce the effects of bile on the small bowel and improve small bowel cleansing, especially in the distal small intestine. labels: #Administration, Oral#Adult#Aged#Capsule Endoscopy#Cathartics#Drug Administration Schedule#Fasting#Female#Gastrointestinal Diseases#Humans#Intestine, Small#Male#Mannitol#Middle Aged#Patient Care Planning#Senna Extract#Simethicone#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Pes anserine (PA) bursitis is an inflammatory condition of the medial knee. The PA bursa becomes more painful when infected, damaged, or irritated. Although various treatment options have been attempted to treat PA bursitis, optimal treatments are still debated. This study aims to investigate the effect of polydeoxyribonucleotide (PDRN) injection on reducing pain and inflammation in a patient presenting with PA bursitis.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 50-year-old female patient was admitted to our pain clinic with symptoms of tenderness and pain over the medial knee. Physical examination revealed the pain to be located over the proximal medial tibia at the insertion of the conjoined tendons of the PA. The knee had lost its range of movement and strength, and resisted knee flexion.DIAGNOSES: She was diagnosed as having PA bursitis.INTERVENTIONS: Ultrasound guided PA bursa injection was carried out.OUTCOMES: Follow-up for the patient was more than eight months. She showed good improvement in PA bursitis without any complications.LESSONS: This is the first successful report of successful PDRN injection for PA bursa. labels: #Analgesics#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Arthralgia#Bursa, Synovial#Bursitis#Female#Humans#Injections#Knee Joint#Middle Aged#Polydeoxyribonucleotides#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography'
b'The aim of the study is to describe the clinical characteristics and prognosis of malignant transformation of adenomyosis in patients with endometrial cancer.In this retrospective descriptive study, the clinical data of patients with endometrial cancer (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a127) who were admitted at our hospital between January 2006 and December 2013 were evaluated.Among the 127 patients with endometrial cancer, 24 patients had endometrial cancer concurrently with adenomyosis. Among these 24 patients, 3 were diagnosed with malignant transformation of adenomyosis. Postoperative pathological investigations in the cancer+adenomyosis group revealed endometrial adenocarcinoma of Grade I (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a21) and II (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3). The patients with malignant transformation of adenomyosis were relatively younger than the other patients. In those 3 patients, both the estrogen and progesterone receptors were strongly expressed in eutopic endometrium and were weakly positive in ectopic endometrium.Although adenomyosis is usually benign, it might also be a precursor of malignant disease. As the incidence of adenomyosis malignant transformation is low, and its clinical manifestations are nonspecific, it may only be confirmed by postoperative pathological examination. Further investigations on larger sample size may provide additional data about prognosis of adenomyosis malignant transformation. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenomyosis#Adult#Age Factors#Cell Transformation, Neoplastic#China#Choristoma#Endometrial Neoplasms#Endometrium#Female#Humans#Hysterectomy#Incidence#Middle Aged#Myometrium#Neoplasm Grading#Receptors, Estrogen#Receptors, Progesterone#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Thrombocytopenia in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is usually attributed to impaired marrow production resulting from cytotoxic drug use or CMML itself ("CMML-induced thrombocytopenia"). In very rare cases, immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) can be a complication of CMML ("CMML-associated ITP"). However, treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in patients with CMML is still a challenge.PATIENT CONCERNS: Case 1 was a 61-year-old female patient admitted to our hospital because of skin petechiae and purpura for 6 days. She had increased monocyte cell count (1.82\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L), markedly decreased platelet count (2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L), hypercellularity of the megakaryocyte lineage with many immature megakaryocytes, and ZRSR2(zinc finger CCCH-type, RNA binding motif and serine/arginine rich 2) mutation. She failed to the treatment of corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), TPO (thrombopoietin), and cyclosporin A (CsA). Case 2 was a 72-year-old female patient with thrombocytosis and monocytosis for 4 years, and thrombocytopenia for 6 months. After 10 courses of decitabine therapy, she had a persistent severe thrombocytopenia and decreased number of megakaryocytes, TET2 (tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2) and SRSF2 (serine and arginine rich splicing factor 2) mutations were detected. She was dependent on platelet transfusion.DIAGNOSES: Case 1 was diagnosed as CMML-associated ITP, and case 2 as CMML with decitabine therapy-induced thrombocytopenia.INTERVENTIONS: Both patients were treated with eltrombopag.OUTCOMES: In both patients, the platelet counts returned to the normal within 1 week after eltrombopag therapy. The platelet count in case 1 patient remained stable at 141-200\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L for 20 months with stopping therapy for 3 months. In case 2 patient, eltrombopag was stopped 1 month later. Her platelet count decreased to 41\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L, but was stable at \xe2\x88\xbc30\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a10/L for 3 months with platelet transfusion independency for 12 months. Both patients had no adverse effects with eltrombopag.LESSONS: CMML-associated ITP is very rare and easily misdiagnosed. To the best of our knowledge, case 1 is the first reported case of the successful treatment of CMML-associated ITP with eltrombopag. Both CMML-associated ITP and decitabine therapy-induced thrombocytopenia in these 2 patients were highly sensitive and safe to eltrombopag therapy. labels: #Aged#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Azacitidine#Benzoates#DNA-Binding Proteins#Drug Monitoring#Female#Hematologic Agents#Humans#Hydrazines#Leukemia, Myelomonocytic, Chronic#Middle Aged#Mutation#Nuclear Proteins#Platelet Count#Proto-Oncogene Proteins#Purpura, Thrombocytopenic, Idiopathic#Pyrazoles#Ribonucleoproteins#Serine-Arginine Splicing Factors#Thrombocytopenia#Thrombopoietin#Treatment Outcome'
b'The CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores are well-known predictors of stroke caused by atrial fibrillation (AF), but no studies have evaluated their use for stratifying all-cause mortality risk in patients discharged for systolic heart failure (SHF) with or without AF.This study analyzed data in the Taiwan Society of Cardiology-heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (TSOC-HFrEF) registry. These data were obtained by a prospective, multicenter, observational survey of patients treated at 21 medical centers in Taiwan after hospitalization for acute, pre-existing or new onset SHF from May, 2013 to October, 2014. During 1 year follow-up, 198 patients were lost follow-up, and final 1311 (86.8%) patients were included for further analysis. During the follow-up period, 250 (19%) patients died. Multivariate analysis revealed that body mass index, thyroid disorder, valvular surgery history, chronic kidney disease (CKD), and scores for CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 were significant independent predictors of mortality in the overall population of SHF patients (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) The c-indexes showed that CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 scores were significantly associated with mortality in SHF patients with or without AF (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a005). However, R2CHADS2 had significantly higher accuracy in predicting mortality in all SHF patients compared with CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc (DeLong test, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001), especially in SHF without AF (DeLong test, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0003).Scores for CHADS2, CHA2DS2-VASc, and R2CHADS2 can be used to predict 1-year all-cause mortality in SHF patients with or without AF. For predicting all-cause mortality in SHF patients, R2CHADS2 is more accurate than CHADS2 and CHA2DS2-VASc. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Female#Heart Failure, Systolic#Hospitalization#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Predictive Value of Tests#Prospective Studies#Registries#Research Design#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Taiwan'
b'INTRODUCTION: We report a 39-year-old male patient with a fracture of the right acetabulum undergoing open reduction and internal fixation with a plate under general anesthesia. At closure, the surgeons injected 0.75% ropivacaine into the subcutaneous tissue of the incision wound for postoperative analgesia. Soon after injection, subcutaneous emphysema at the injection site and a sudden decrease in end-tidal CO2 tension with crude oscillatory ripples during the alveolar plateau phase were observed. Shortly thereafter, it was found that the surgeons had mistakenly injected hydrogen peroxide instead of ropivacaine. Fortunately, the patient recovered to normal status after 10 minutes. After the surgery, the patient was carefully observed for suspected pulmonary embolism and discharged without complications.CONCLUSION: Adverse events related to medication errors can occur in operating rooms, and most cases can be prevented through communication and verification by medical staff. The use of hydrogen peroxide should be reevaluated; when used, medical staff should be aware of the risk of oxygen embolism and take extreme care. labels: #Acetabulum#Adult#Anesthesia, General#Anti-Infective Agents, Local#Embolism, Air#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Injections, Subcutaneous#Intraoperative Complications#Male#Medication Errors#Oxygen#Subcutaneous Emphysema#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Vandetanib is a promising anticancer target agent for treating advanced carcinomas, such as non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and breast cancer. Rash is a frequently reported adverse event of vandetanib. We conducted this meta-analysis to determine the incidence rate and overall risks of all-grade and high-grade rash with vandetanib in NSCLC patients.METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, American Society of Clinical Oncology, and Cochrane Library were systematically searched to identify studies with vandetanib and rash in NSCLC patients. Data were extracted to calculate the pooled incidence of all-grade and high-grade (grade \xe2\x89\xa53) rash caused by vandetanib treatment.RESULTS: Nine randomized controlled trials involving 4893 patients met the inclusion criteria and were included in this meta-analysis. The overall incidence of all-grade and high-grade rash caused by vandetanib treatment was 46% (95% CI: 37.1%, 54.8%), and 3.2% (95% CI: 1.4%, 5.1%), respectively. The risk ratios (RR) of all-grade and high-grade rash for vandetanib treatment versus control treatment were 2.35 (95% CI: 1.20, 4.61; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and 4.68 (95% CI 1.42, 15.37; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), respectively. Subgroup analysis suggested that the increased risk of all-grade rash was clear across all subgroups, including first-line/second-line therapy, phase 2/phase 3 trial, sample size</>200, a dosage of 100 or 300\xe2\x80\x8amg, and monotherapy/combination therapy. However, for the high-grade rash, vandetanib did not increase the risk of rash when it was used in first-line therapy, or in a phase II trial, or in a trial with sample size<200.CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that vandetanib was associated with a significantly increased risk of rash. Therefore, early recognition and appropriate monitoring should be taken when NSCLC patients were treated with vandetanib. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Exanthema#Humans#Incidence#Inflammatory Breast Neoplasms#Neoplasm Staging#Piperidines#Quinazolines#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Severity of Illness Index'
b'Glaucoma (GL) and atrial fibrillation (AF) are diseases of significant social importance. Cardiovascular disorders such as systemic hypertension, hypotension, increased blood viscosity, vasospasm, and diabetes are potential risk factors of GL, especially when intraocular pressure is not elevated. Only a few studies have reported a possible connection between cardiac arrhythmias and GL. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the risk of GL in patients with AF.A total of 117 patients were included in the study, 79 with AF (AF group) and 38 with sinus rhythm (Control group), matched for age and sex. The mean\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8astandard deviation age was 73.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a7.2 and 71.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a4.7 years for the AF and control groups, respectively. There were no statistically significant differences in the percentage of systemic hypertension, congestive heart failure, diabetes mellitus type 2, or vascular disease between the groups. Patients were examined for the presence of normal-tension glaucoma (NTG) by an ophthalmologist.NTG was confirmed in 40 patients (34.2%) in the entire group, with 35 (44.3%) in the AF group and 5 (13.15%) in the Control group. The incidence of NTG was significantly higher in the AF group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0221). Women represented 60% of GL patients in the AF group and 80% in the control group. There were no significant differences in intraocular pressure between the groups (mean\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8astandard deviation, 14.3\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.3 vs. 14.2\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.8\xe2\x80\x8ammHg, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.4202). Approximately three-fourths of patients with AF and NTG had early visual field damage based on the Hodapp classification.AF, independent of other known cardiovascular risk factors, increases the risk of developing NTG. Many AF patients do not have conspicuous symptoms of GL, so understanding the possible risk of its development is critical because early detection might help to prevent later visual impairment and even irreversible blindness. labels: #Aged#Atrial Fibrillation#Early Diagnosis#Early Medical Intervention#Female#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Poland#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Statistics as Topic#Tonometry, Ocular#Vision Disorders'
b'RATIONALE: Post-therapy or diagnostic whole-body radioiodine scintigraphy is widely employed to evaluate the residual, recurrence, or metastases of differentiated thyroid carcinoma because of the high sensitivity and accuracy. However, it has pitfalls.PATIENT CONCERNS: We described a 63-year-old male with a history of papillary thyroid carcinoma who was referred for iodine-131 ablation therapy. The post-therapy iodine-131 whole-body images demonstrated abnormal increased uptake of the tracer in the regions of bilateral upper abdomen.DIAGNOSES: The single photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) showed the abnormal Iactivity was corresponded to multiple irregular cystic low densities in the both kidneys on the low-dose computed tomography images, so the diagnosis of polycystic kidney disease was confirmed.INTERVENTIONS AND OUTCOMES: The patient responded well to the lifestyle-based treatments.LESSONS: Polycystic kidney disease was one of the etiologies of the false-positive findings in the radioiodine scintigraphy. labels: #Carcinoma, Papillary#Humans#Incidental Findings#Iodine Radioisotopes#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Polycystic Kidney Diseases#Radioimmunotherapy#Radiopharmaceuticals#Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography Computed Tomography#Thyroid Neoplasms#Whole Body Imaging'
b'We investigated the serum haptoglobin levels in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) based on the hypothesis that haptoglobin levels would reflect subclinical hemolysis due to microangiopathy in pulmonary arterioles.This cross-sectional study included 3 groups of patients attending Hokkaido University Hospital: PAH, chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), and connective tissue diseases (CTD) without PAH (CTD-non-PAH) group. Serum haptoglobin levels were measured by standardized turbidimetric immunoassay in all patients. Demographic data, laboratory results, right heart catheter, and echocardiographic findings were extracted from the medical records. Decreased haptoglobin levels were defined as below 19\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL based on the 95th percentile of healthy controls.Thirty-five patients in PAH group including 11 with idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and 24 with CTD-associated PAH (CTD-PAH), 27 in CTEPH group, and 32 in CTD-non-PAH group were analyzed. Serum haptoglobin levels in PAH group (median 66\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL) were significantly lower than those in CTEPH group (median 94\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03) and CTD-non-PAH group (median 79\xe2\x80\x8amg/dL, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.03). The prevalence of decreased haptoglobin levels was 26% in PAH group, 15% in CTEPH group, and 6% in CTD-non-PAH group. Serum haptoglobin levels had a significant negative correlation (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.66, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) with mean pulmonary artery pressure in PAH group, particularly in CTD-PAH subgroup (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.74, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but no correlation in IPAH subgroup (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.52, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.13) and in CTEPH group (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a-0.17, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.41). Follow-up cases of CTD-PAH showed lowering pulmonary artery pressure led to normalizing serum haptoglobin levels.Serum haptoglobin levels decreased in PAH patients and inversely correlated with pulmonary artery pressure in CTD-PAH patients, suggesting their potential as a surrogate marker for CTD-PAH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Arterioles#Blood Pressure#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Haptoglobins#Hemolysis#Humans#Hypertension, Pulmonary#Lung#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Artery#Pulmonary Embolism#Thrombotic Microangiopathies'
b'Contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of small-diameter mass-forming intrahepatic cholangiocarcinomas (ICCs) (diameter \xe2\x89\xa43\xe2\x80\x8acm) are still unclear.This study focused on imaging findings of small mass-forming ICCs. The MRI findings for small-diameter mass-forming ICCs were summarized, and the enhancement features of small ICC nodules with different diameters [2 groups were defined: a smaller nodule group (ICC diameter<2\xe2\x80\x8acm) and a larger nodule group (ICC diameter>2\xe2\x80\x8acm)] were compared on contrast-enhanced MRI.In our study, there were 41 small ICC nodules in 41 patients, including 30 men and 11 women (average age, 56 years). The nodules were characterized by peripheral hyperintense in the arterial phase on contrast-enhanced MRI. In the different diameter groups, peripheral hyperintense was the most common in the larger nodule group (56% vs 12%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and hypointense was more common in the smaller nodule group (25% vs 0%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in the arterial phase on contrast-enhanced MRI. Smaller nodules mainly showed progressive enhancement, whereas larger nodules mainly showed peripheral continuous enhancement (56% vs 6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).The small-diameter mass-forming ICC nodules mainly show peripheral continuous enhancement on contrast-enhanced MRI; however, those with diameters<2\xe2\x80\x8acm commonly show progressive enhancement. labels: #Adult#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Bile Ducts, Intrahepatic#Cholangiocarcinoma#Contrast Media#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Humans#Image Enhancement#Liver#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Radiologists#Retrospective Studies'
b'Intralesional steroid injections are the standard treatment for hypertrophic scars and keloids. The procedure is, however, quite painful and is unpopular with patients because of this. Topical application of anesthetic creams, such as Ametop gel (tetracaine) and EMLA cream (lidocaine and prilocaine), has limited efficacy because of poor drug penetration. The onset of the analgesic effect is also slow, which means that the use of topical anesthetics is time-consuming in clinical practice.We hypothesized that a commercially available cryotip could be used to provide fast-acting topical cryoanesthesia that would reduce the pain associated with steroid injections.Thirty patients with hypertrophic scars or keloids were enrolled in the study. Scars were injected with the steroid, triamcinolone acetonide, with or without prior application of the cryotip (-10\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb0C) for 15 seconds. The degree of pain was evaluated in each case using the visual analogue scale (VAS) and the verbal descriptor scale (VDS), together with any side-effects caused by application of the cryotip.The VAS pain scores showed a statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) difference between the pretreated and the control scars (pain scores 7.87\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.31 and 2.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.37, respectively). The VDS pain scores also showed a statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) difference between the pretreated and the control scars. And its average scores were 7.89\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.32 and 2.68\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.25, respectively.Application of the cryotip before injection could provide a rapid and effective means of reducing the pain associated with steroid injections. Painless would result in better therapeutic effect. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anesthetics, Local#Cicatrix, Hypertrophic#Cryoanesthesia#Female#Glucocorticoids#Humans#Injections, Intralesional#Keloid#Male#Middle Aged#Pain#Pain Measurement#Treatment Outcome#Triamcinolone Acetonide#Young Adult'
b'It is still debatable whether complete mediastinal lymph node dissection (MLND) is associated with better survival than mediastinal lymph node sampling (MLNS) in surgical treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We aimed to assess the impact of lymph node dissection on long-term survival among stage I NSCLC patients.In this cohort study, 317 stage I NSCLC Chinese patients in Shanghai Chest Hospital were followed up for at least 10 years to evaluate the impact of different lymph node dissection modes on their survival. Among them, 161 patients were in the MLND group and 156 in the MLNS group. Overall survival and median survival times were calculated for the 2 groups. The association between lymph node dissection and the survival of NSCLC patients was assessed using Cox proportional-hazard models.Patients in the MLND group presented better survival (median survival time\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a154.67 months) than those in the MLNS group (median survival time\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a124.67 months). The MLNS had higher mortality than the MLND group, with the crude hazard ratio of the MLNS group relative to the MLND group as 1.32 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.97, 1.78). After adjusting for age and sex, the association between lymph node dissection and mortality (hazard ratio 1.36, 95% CI 1.00, 1.84) was statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.047). Further adjusting for baseline clinical characteristics, the association (hazard ratio 1.40, 95% CI 1.02, 1.92) remained statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.036). The association between lymph node dissection mode and mortality was strong among patients with tumor size between 2.0 and 3.0\xe2\x80\x8acm (hazard ratio 2.79, 95% CI 1.45, 5.37).We found that the MLND was associated with better survival for patients with early-stage NSCLC, compared with the MLNS. The effects of MLND on survival may depend on tumor size. Our findings have important implications in the treatment of early-stage NSCLC. Further prospective studies with a large sample size are needed to confirm our findings. labels: #Aged#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Lung Neoplasms#Lymph Node Excision#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Mediastinum#Neoplasm Staging#Proportional Hazards Models#Treatment Outcome'
b"To determine the prevalence of thyroid disorders among newly diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients and evaluate the association between clinical characteristics of RA and thyroid disorders, and also initial treatment response in the RA patients with thyroid disorders.Newly diagnosed, adult RA patients who were diagnosed according to the new 2010 American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism criteria since January 1, 2010, were included. Patients' demographic data, serology results including immunoglobulin M rheumatoid factor (IgM RF), anticyclic citrullinated peptide antibody (anti-CCP), and antinuclear antibody (ANA), and also disease activity score in 28 joints-C-reactive protein at the time of diagnosis and after 4 months (\xc2\xb11-2 months) of treatment initiation were extracted from Danish Danbio Registry. Patients' electronic hospital records for the past 10 years were reviewed to reveal if they had been diagnosed with thyroid disorders or they had abnormal thyroid test.In all, 439 patients were included, female 60.1%, mean age 64.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a15.0 years and disease duration 2.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.7 years. Prevalence of thyroid disorders was 69/439 (15.7%) and hypothyroidism was the most frequent disorder (30.4%). The presence of thyroid disorders among RA patients was significantly associated with female sex (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), ANA positivity (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04), and anti-CCP \xe2\x89\xa5100\xe2\x80\x8aEU/mL (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Furthermore, RA patients with thyroid disorders had significantly poorer initial response to RA treatment compared with patients with isolated RA after 4 months of treatment (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02). There were no associations between thyroid disorders and age, disease duration, and also IgM RF positivity.Presence of thyroid disorders in RA patients is suggestive of a more aggressive disease and poor outcome, with direct effect on initial treatment response. To diagnose concurrent thyroid disorders at an earlier stage, routine measurement of serum thyroid-stimulating hormone is recommended in all RA patients at the time of diagnosis and with yearly interval thereafter. labels: #Aged#Antibodies, Antinuclear#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Rheumatoid#Autoantibodies#C-Reactive Protein#Cohort Studies#Denmark#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin M#Joints#Male#Middle Aged#Peptides, Cyclic#Prevalence#Registries#Rheumatoid Factor#Severity of Illness Index#Thyroid Diseases#Treatment Outcome"
b'RATIONALE: Acute colonic diverticulitis is a well-known surgical emergency, which occurs in about 10 percent of patients known for diverticulosis.PATIENT CONCERNS: The case of a 77-year-old woman is reported, with past history of abdominoperineal resection with end-colostomy for low rectal adenocarcinoma, and who developed an acute colonic diverticulitis in a subcutaneous portion of colostomy with parastomal phlegmon.DIAGNOSES: Initial computed tomography imaging demonstrated a significant submucosal parietal edema with local fat tissues infiltration in regard of 3 diverticula.INTERVENTIONS: A two-step treatment was decided: first a nonoperative treatment was initiated with 2 weeks antibiotics administration, followed by, 6 weeks after, a segmental resection of the terminal portion of the colon with redo of a new colostomy by direct open approach.OUTCOMES: Patient was discharged on the second postoperative day without complications. Follow-up at 2 weeks revealed centimetric dehiscence of the stoma, which was managed conservatively until sixth postoperative week by stomatherapists.LESSONS SUBSECTIONS: Treatment of acute diverticulitis with parastomal phlegmon in a patient with end-colostomy could primary be nonoperative. Delayed surgical treatment with segmental colonic resection was proposed to avoid recurrence and potential associated complications. labels: #Abdominal Neoplasms#Aged#Anus Neoplasms#Cellulitis#Colostomy#Diverticulitis, Colonic#Female#Humans#Perineum#Postoperative Complications#Surgical Stomas'
b'This study is conducted to investigate the involvement of T-helper (Th) cells and regulatory T cells in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).The percentages of Th22, Th17, Th1, and regulatory T cells in the peripheral blood of EOC patients, benign ovarian epithelial neoplasm (BOEN) patients, and healthy control (HC) were examined by flow cytometry. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to determine serum levels of interleukin (IL)-22, IL-17, interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3), and tumor necrosis factor-\xce\xb1 (TNF-\xce\xb1).Th22 and Th17 were significantly increased in EOC patients. The plasma concentrations of IL-22 and TNF-\xce\xb1 were significantly elevated in EOC patients compared with BOEN patients and HC. In EOC patients, there was an increased trend of Th22, IL-22, and TNF-\xce\xb1 in stage III-IV patients compared with stage I-II patients. A positive correlation was seen among Th22, Th17, and Th1 cells in EOC patients. Similarly, positive correlations were detected between Th22 cells and IL-22 or TNF-\xce\xb1 and between Th1 cells and interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3) in EOC patients. Besides, no significant difference was found in Th1 cells and regulatory T cells among EOC and BOEN patients and HC.There is a higher circulating frequency of Th22, Th17 cells, IL-22, and TNF-\xce\xb1 concentration in EOC patients, which may conjointly participate in the pathogenesis and growth of EOC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Cytokines#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Lymphocyte Count#Middle Aged#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory'
b'RATIONALE: Relapsing polychondritis (RP) is a multisystemic, progressive disease of unknown etiology characterized by recurrent inflammation and progressive cartilage destruction. It can involve all types of cartilage including ears and nose, tracheobronchial tree, joints, and any other tissue rich in proteoglycans such as heart, eyes, and blood vessels. Recurrent chondritis can be life-threatening if the respiratory tract, heart valves, or blood vessels are affected. To date there is no data in the literature on the post solid organ transplantation RP.PATIENT CONCERNS: We present a 59-year-old male liver transplant recipient with primary sclerosing cholangitis who developed RP of the earlobes and nose despite post-transplant immunosuppression.DIAGNOSES: Based on the clinical criteria, scintigraphy and biopsy from the left auricle his condition was diagnosed as RP.INTERVENTIONS: Pulses of methylprednisolone followed by high-dose oral steroids along with azathioprine were administered.OUTCOMES: Such therapy diminished local cartilage inflammation, improved patient\'s general condition and the laboratory results. Significant loss of ear cartilage and characteristic "saddlenose" were observed after remission of acute symptoms. The control scintigraphy proved very good treatment response.LESSONS: To the best of our knowledge this is the first report on the RP in liver transplant recipient. Based on our patient presentation, we suggest that RP should be suspected in any transplant recipient with cartilage inflammation, and that the Michet\'s clinical criteria and scintigraphy seem to be the best diagnostic tools for solid organ transplant recipients suspected of RP. labels: #Cholangitis, Sclerosing#Ear Cartilage#Ear Diseases#Humans#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Nasal Cartilages#Nose Diseases#Polychondritis, Relapsing'
b'The aims of present study were to evaluate the prevalence, risk factors, and prognostic significance of masked hypertension in diabetic patients. Using a cross-sectional design, 266 patients with documented type 2 diabetes mellitus and clinic blood pressure (BP)<140/90\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg without antihypertension treatment were enrolled; 24-hour ambulatory BP monitoring was applied to evaluate mean 24-hour systolic/diastolic BP. Demographics, medical histories, and medications usage were obtained using questionnaire. Fasting venous blood was drawn for biochemical analysis. Approximately 26.5% of participants were diagnosed as masked hypertension with mean 24-hour systolic BP>130\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg and/or mean 24-hour diastolic BP>80\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg. Compared with those without masked hypertension, other than significantly higher mean 24-hour systolic/diastolic BP, patients with masked hypertension were more elderly, had higher serum glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels and higher prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD). Multivariate regression analysis showed that aging, increased HbA1c and CRP levels, and prevalent CHD were independently associated with masked hypertension. Logistic regression analysis revealed that after adjusted for traditional risk factors including age, male sex, smoking status, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol, CRP, clinic systolic BP, and HbA1c, masked hypertension remained independently associated with prevalent cardiovascular disease (CVD), with odds ratio of 1.31 and 95% confidence interval of 1.11 to 1.85. In summary, in diabetic patients, concurrent masked hypertension increases the odds of having CVD. Future randomized controlled trials are warranted to investigate whether screening and managing masked hypertension could reduce cardiovascular events in diabetic patients. labels: #Aged#Blood Pressure#C-Reactive Protein#Coronary Disease#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Lipoproteins, LDL#Male#Masked Hypertension#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Prognosis#Risk Factors'
b'Walking up and down stairs is a common and important activity of daily living. Women with fibromyalgia often show a reduced ability to perform this task.The objective of this study was to evaluate the test-retest reliability of stair negotiation tasks and to assess the impact of fibromyalgia symptoms on the ability to negotiate stairs.Forty-two women with fibromyalgia participated in this descriptive correlational study. The relevance of the stair negotiation (both walking up and down) was evaluated by assessing its association with the revised version of the fibromyalgia impact questionnaire (FIQ-R) and other health-related variables. Test-retest reliability was also analyzed. The main outcome measures were time spent walking up and down stairs and impact of fibromyalgia, quality of life, number of falls, weight, and lower limb strength and endurance.The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) for stair descent was 0.929 whereas that for ascent was 0.972. The score in these tests correlated significantly with the total score for the FIQ-R and the score for many of dimensions and symptoms: that is, physical function, overall impact of fibromyalgia, pain, energy, stiffness, restorative sleep, tenderness, self-perceived balance problems, and sensitivity.Given the importance of the stair negotiation as activity of daily living and the high reliability, both stair ascent and descent tasks may be useful as outcome measures in studies on patients with fibromyalgia. labels: #Accidental Falls#Activities of Daily Living#Adult#Aged#Disability Evaluation#Female#Fibromyalgia#Humans#Lower Extremity#Middle Aged#Quality of Life#Reproducibility of Results#Statistics as Topic#Surveys and Questionnaires#Task Performance and Analysis#Walking'
b'Due to the lack of an accurate preoperative diagnostic method of central lymph node metastasis (CLNM) of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), the prophylaxis of central lymph node dissection remains controversial. The present study investigated the clinicopathological features of PTC patients and the risk factors of CLNM. The clinicopathological features of PTC patients with respect to sex, age, initial symptoms, observation, tumor diameter, multifocality, extrathyroidal invasion, and pathological data combined with other thyroid diseases, were analyzed retrospectively. The risk factors of CLNM were analyzed by Chi-squared test and multivariate logistic regression model. The CLNM rate of PTC was 40.6% (1331/3273). On average, 7.0 (4.0, 12.0) central lymph nodes were dissected, and 3.70 (\xc2\xb13.8) lymph nodes were proved to be metastatic. Univariate analysis showed that sex (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), age (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), tumor diameter (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), extrathyroid invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), multifocality (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), concurrent nodular goiter (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), initial symptoms (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and observation or not (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were related to CLNM. The observation time was neither related to CLNM (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.469) nor extrathyroidal invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.137). Tumors localized in the lower part of the thyroid were the risk factors for CLNM (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) while multifocality was unrelated (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.68). The metastasis rate of bilateral multiple regions\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8aunilateral multiple regions\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8asingle region (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003). Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that sex, age, tumor diameter, extrathyroidal invasion, and observation were independent risk factors of CLNM. Male, younger age, large tumor size, and extrathyroidal invasion were independent risk factors for CLNM. CLNM was related to multiple regions occupied by tumors in the thyroid but unrelated to multifocality. The tumor occupying a single region and localized in the lower part of thyroid could be used as a predictive factor for CLNM. For tumors that could not be diagnosed as benign or malignant, observation may be an option, since no evidence of disease progression was presented during observation. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Carcinoma, Papillary#Chi-Square Distribution#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Logistic Models#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neck#Neck Dissection#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Thyroid Neoplasms#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Watchful Waiting'
b'The objective of this study was to examine the incidence and hazard ratio (HR) of pulmonary tuberculosis in patients with head and neck cancer in Taiwan.This population-based retrospective cohort study was conducted to analyze the database of the Taiwan National Health Insurance Program. There were 2522 subjects aged 20 to 84 years with newly diagnosed head and neck cancer as the head and neck cancer group between 2000 and 2012, and 10,064 randomly selected sex- and age-matched subjects without any cancer as the noncancer group. The incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis at the end of 2013 was estimated in both groups. A multivariable Cox proportional hazards regression model was used to estimate the HR and 95% confidence interval (CI) for pulmonary tuberculosis being associated with head and neck cancer.The overall incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis was 2.86-fold greater in the head and neck cancer group than that in the noncancer group (4.70 vs 1.64 per 1000 person-years, 95% CI, 2.53-3.24). After adjusting for confounding factors, the adjusted HR of pulmonary tuberculosis became 2.90 for the head and neck cancer group (95% CI, 2.11-3.99), compared with the noncancer group. In addition, male (adjusted HR 2.27, 95% CI, 1.29-4.00) and age (increase for 1 year, adjusted HR 1.06, 95% CI, 1.05-1.08) were associated with pulmonary tuberculosis.Head and neck cancer is significantly associated with 2.90-fold increased hazard of pulmonary tuberculosis in Taiwan, compared with the general population. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Databases, Factual#Female#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Taiwan#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Both genomics and environmental stressors play a significant role in increases in blood pressure (BP). In an attempt to further explain the hypertension (HTN) disparity among African Americans (AA), both genetic underpinnings (selected candidate genes) and stress due to perceived racial discrimination (as reported in the literature) have independently been linked to increased BP among AAs. Although Gene x Environment interactions on BP have been examined, the environmental component of these investigations has focused more on lifestyle behaviors such as smoking, diet, and physical activity, and less on psychosocial stressors such as perceived discrimination.The present study uses candidate gene analyses to identify the relationship between Everyday Discrimination (ED) and Major Life Discrimination (MLD) with increases in systolic BP (SBP) and diastolic BP (DBP) among AA in the Jackson Heart Study. Multiple linear regression models reveal no association between discrimination and BP after adjusting for age, sex, body mass index (BMI), antihypertensive medication use, and current smoking status.Subsequent candidate gene analysis identified 5 SNPs (rs7602215, rs3771724, rs1006502, rs1791926, and rs2258119) that interacted with perceived discrimination and SBP, and 3 SNPs (rs2034454, rs7602215, and rs3771724) that interacted with perceived discrimination and DBP. Most notably, there was a significant SNP\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8adiscrimination interaction for 2 SNPs on the SLC4A5 gene: rs3771724 (MLD: SBP P = .034, DBP P = .031; ED: DBP: P = .016) and rs1006502 (MLD: SBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.034, DBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.030; ED: DBP P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.015).This study supports the idea that SNP\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8adiscrimination interactions combine to influence clinically relevant traits such as BP. Replication with similar epidemiological samples is required to ascertain the role of genes and psychosocial stressors in the development and expression of high BP in this understudied population. labels: #Adult#African Americans#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Blood Pressure#Discrimination (Psychology)#Female#Gene-Environment Interaction#Health Status Disparities#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Severe sepsis or septic shock are the main factors influencing the prognosis of acute pyelonephritis (APN). Our aim was to analyze factors associated with the development of severe sepsis or septic shock in a large sample of patients with acute complicated pyelonephritis (ACPN).This prospective observational study comprised 1507 consecutive patients aged 14 years or older who were admitted to a tertiary care hospital because of ACPN between 1997 and 2015. Covariates associated in univariate analysis with severe sepsis or septic shock were then analyzed by multivariate logistic regression.Of the 1507 patients, 423 (28.1%) fulfilled the criteria for severe sepsis or septic shock at the time of admission. Crude and attributable mortality at 30 days were 17.7% and 11.7% in patients with severe sepsis or septic shock versus 1.7% and 0.6% in patients without severe sepsis or septic shock, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0005, respectively. An age\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a65 years, urinary instrumentation in the previous 2 weeks, the lack of mictional syndrome or costovertebral tenderness, an ectasia \xe2\x89\xa5 grade II, and bacteremia were independent risk factors associated with severe sepsis or septic shock.The prevalence of severe sepsis and septic shock in patients with ACPN is high. Some factors associated with severe sepsis are easy to identify in any emergency department. The information provided here could be useful when deciding which patients should be admitted to receive immediate treatment. labels: #Acute Disease#Aged#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Prevalence#Prospective Studies#Pyelonephritis#Risk Factors#Sepsis#Shock, Septic'
b'Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is the development of heart failure during late pregnancy to months postpartum with potential fatal outcome. However, the disease is not well-studied in Asia.We aimed to investigate the epidemiology and clinical outcomes of PPCM in Taiwan.Electronic medical records were retrieved from Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database from 1997 to 2011. Patients with PPCM were separated into 3 groups based on the timing of diagnosis. Early: PPCM diagnosed first to ninth month of pregnancy. Traditional: PPCM diagnosed last month of pregnancy till fifth month post-delivery. Late: PPCM diagnosed sixth to twelfth month post-delivery. Primary outcomes defined as cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) within 1 year.A total of 3,506,081 deliveries during 1997 to 2011 were retrieved and 925 patients with PPCM were identified. Overall incidence of PPCM was 1:3,790 during the 15 years. Early, Traditional, and Late group each had 88, 742, and 95 patients. Cardiac death occurred in 31 patients, all-cause mortality in 72 patients, and MACE in 65 patients. Late group had 2- to 3-fold event rates in cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and MACE compared with Early and Traditional groups. Cumulative incidence showed significant differences for cardiac death (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0011), all-cause mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0031), and MACE (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0014) among 3 groups. Multivariate Cox model showed Late group had significantly worse outcomes after adjusted for clinical variables compared with 2 other groups.Our study is the largest national cohort among Asian countries that showed timing of diagnosis of PPCM had different outcomes. Late diagnosis portended significantly increased morbidity and mortality, even after adjusted for clinical variables. labels: #Adult#Cardiomyopathies#Cause of Death#Databases, Factual#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Incidence#Multivariate Analysis#Peripartum Period#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Puerperal Disorders#Taiwan'
b'Syphilitic chorioretinitis should be included in differential diagnosis of any form of ocular inflammation. A significantly higher proportion of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients with ocular syphilis as compared to HIV-negative cases have been reported in published studies. However, the clinical signs and symptoms are more insidious in HIV-negative patients who are easily misdiagnosed. We report a series of cases of ocular syphilis and describe the clinical manifestations and treatment outcomes of syphilitic chorioretinitis in HIV-negative patients in China.This was a retrospective case series study. The clinical records of patients with syphilis chorioretinitis were reviewed. Demographic information and findings of fundus fluorescein angiography (FFA), indocyanine green angiography (ICGA), and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) were analyzed. All patients received the standard treatment. Ophthalmology examination and laboratory evaluation were repeated every 3 months. All changes were recorded. The treatment was considered successful if the patients had no inflammation in both eyes and rapid plasma reagin titer was negative after therapy.The study examined 41 eyes of 28 HIV-negative patients. The main complaints were blurry vision, floaters, and visual field defect. Twenty-seven eyes presented with panuveitis, and all had posterior involvement, including uveitis, vasculitis, chorioretinitis, and optic neuritis. The most common manifestations were uveitis and retinal vasculitis. Disc hyperfluorescence and persistent dark spots were the most common findings on FFA and ICGA. The ill-defined inner segment/outer segment junction was the most frequent manifestation on SD-OCT. Patients were diagnosed with syphilitic uveitis based on positive serological tests. Best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was improved in 34 eyes after treatment. Eleven patients were misdiagnosed before serological tests were performed. The delay in treatment led to long-standing cystoid macular edema and optic neuropathy, which were associated with poor BCVA (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.037).The common manifestations of syphilitic chorioretinitis were uveitis, retinal vasculitis, and optic neuritis. Further diagnosis should be prompted by FFA, ICGA, and SD-OCT when ocular manifestation is suspected. The standard treatment for neurosyphilis was effective. If patients are presumed to be in low-risk groups such as HIV-negative, delays in diagnosis, and therapy may be likely. It is necessary to reiterate the importance of including syphilis uveitis as a differential diagnosis for any form of ocular inflammations, especially posterior uveitis and optic neuropathy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anti-Bacterial Agents#China#Chorioretinitis#Eye Infections, Bacterial#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Optic Neuritis#Retinal Vasculitis#Retrospective Studies#Syphilis#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Treatment Outcome#Uveitis#Visual Acuity'
b'RATIONALE: Staged hepatectomy is an important surgical method for large hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) is still the major barrier in stage II hepatectomy. We herein reported a case of laparoscopic associating liver tourniquet and portal ligation combined rescue transhepatic arterial embolization (TAE) for staged hepatectomy.PATIENT CONCERNS: Laparoscopic associating liver tourniquet and portal ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALTPS) was performed for cirrhotic HCC in stage I. To stimulate the growth of FLR, a "rescue" TAE was initiated before stage II.DIAGNOSE: HCC with hepatitis B cirrhosis.OUTCOMES: Two weeks later after TAE, the FLR achieved sufficient hypertrophy and stage II surgery was successfully performed. The patient was discharged 7 days after the second stage without serious complication. During the follow-up at postoperative 6 months, the patient underwent radiofrequency ablation, because contrast-enhanced ultrasonography showed 1\xe2\x80\x8acm tumor recurrence in the remnant liver.LESSONS: Rescue TAE plays an important role to stimulate the increasing of FLR after ALTPS. labels: #Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Embolization, Therapeutic#Hepatectomy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ligation#Liver Cirrhosis#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Portal Vein#Postoperative Period#Tourniquets'
b'RATIONALE: In patients with bilateral ureteral obstruction, the serum creatinine levels are often elevated, sometimes causing postrenal acute kidney injury (AKI). In contrast, those with unilateral ureteral obstruction present normal serum creatinine levels, as long as their contralateral kidneys are preserved intact. However, the unilateral obstruction of the ureter could affect the renal function, as it humorally influences the renal hemodynamics.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 66-year-old man with a past medical history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus came to our outpatient clinic because of right abdominal dullness.DIAGNOSES: Unilateral ureteral obstruction caused by a radio-opaque calculus in the right upper ureter and a secondary renal dysfunction.INTERVENTIONS: As oral hydration and the use of calcium antagonists failed to allow the spontaneous stone passage, extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) was performed.OUTCOMES: Immediately after the passage of the stone, the number of red blood cells in the urine was dramatically decreased and the serum creatinine level almost returned to the normal range with the significant increase in glomerular filtration rate.LESSONS: Unilateral ureteral obstruction by the calculus, which caused reflex vascular constriction and ureteral spasm in the contralateral kidney, was thought to be responsible for the deteriorating renal function. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Aged#Humans#Kidney#Male#Ureteral Obstruction#Urolithiasis'
b'Angiogenesis plays an important role during bone regeneration. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) has been proven to accelerate the process of bone fracture healing. However, the mechanism of the effect of LIPUS on bone regeneration is still unclear. In the present study, we used human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) and human osteosarcoma cell (MG-63) to investigate the effect of LIPUS stimulation in an endothelial cell-osteoblast coculture system. At the same time, we used transwell and in vitro angiogenesis assay to observe how LIPUS affects endothelial cells. The results demonstrated that LIPUS could significantly increase the migratory ability and promote tube formation in angiogenesis of HUVECs. Furthermore, LIPUS could significantly elevate the expression of osteogenesis-related genes on osteoblasts such as Runt-related transcription factor 2, alkaline phosphatase, Osteorix, and Cyclin-D1, indicating the pro-osteogenesis effect of LIPUS in our coculture system. In conclusion, endothelial cell is involved in LIPUS-accelerated bone regeneration, the positive effect of LIPUS may be transferred via endothelial cells surrounding fracture healing site. labels: #Cell Line, Tumor#Coculture Techniques#Culture Media, Conditioned#Endothelial Cells#Fracture Healing#Humans#Osteoblasts#Osteogenesis#Osteosarcoma#Ultrasonic Waves'
b'Interpersonal and communication skills are 2 essential qualities of every physician. These are separate and distinct parts of the professional character of every physician. In pediatrics these abilities present even a higher impact.We performed a survey-type prospective study based on questionnaires on 100 subjects, equally divided into 4 groups: 25 children, 25 pediatricians, 25 care-givers (parents, tutors, and relatives), and 25 health care staff, in a Tertiary Pediatric Clinic from Romania, between January 2017 and April 2017.We included 100 participants in our study, equally divided into 4 groups: pediatric patients, pediatricians, care-givers, and health care staff. The 1st group comprised 25 children diagnosed with different chronic conditions, presenting the age between 5 and 14 years. The male gender predominated among the children (57%). The lowest general average score for "Communication" section was encountered among pediatricians group, 3.8, while the other 3 groups presented the same average score for this section, that is, 4.6. The children and the health care staff offered the same average score for "Transparency," that is, 4.6, while the pediatricians offered a score of 4.5, and the care-givers of 4.7. The lowest average score for the item "Hospital environment" was given by the doctors, that is, 3.3, followed by care-givers with a score of 3.6, health care staff 3.7, and children with an average score of 3.8. All the 4 groups included in the study offered a general average of 4.9 out of 5 for the "Intercultural issues" section. The lowest average score for "Time management" section was offered by both children and pediatricians, that is, 4.1, while care-givers and health care staff had a slightly better perception regarding this item, offering 4.2 and 4.3, respectively.The opinion among the 4 groups included in the study was generally similar regarding the 5 items assessed by our questionnaires. Therefore, the main aspects that need to be improved in the health care system in downward order are the following: hospital environment, time management, communication, transparency, and intercultural issues. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Caregivers#Child#Child, Preschool#Communication#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pediatricians#Physician-Patient Relations#Prospective Studies#Romania#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend that norepinephrine (NA) should be used to reach the target mean arterial pressure (MAP) during cardiogenic shock (CS), rather than epinephrine and dopamine (DA). However, there has actually been few studies on comparing norepinephrine with dopamine and their results conflicts. These studies raise a heat discussion. This study aimed to validate the effectiveness of norepinephrine for treating CS in comparison with dopamine.METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to assess pooled estimates of risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for 28-day mortality, incidence of arrhythmic events, gastrointestinal reaction, and some indexes after treatment.RESULTS: Compared with dopamine, patients receiving norepinephrine had a lower 28-day mortality (RR 1.611 [95% CI 1.219-2.129]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01), a lower risk of arrhythmic events (RR 3.426 [95% CI 2.120-5.510]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.875) and a lower risk of gastrointestinal reaction (RR 5.474 [95% CI 2.917-10.273]; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001; P heterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0). In subgroup analyses on 28-day mortality by causes of CS, there were more benefits from norepinephrine than dopamine in 2 subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis revealed that norepinephrine was associated with a lower 28-day mortality, a lower risk of arrhythmic events, and gastrointestinal reaction. No matter whether CS is caused by coronary heart disease or not, norepinephrine is superior to dopamine for correcting CS on the 28-day mortality. labels: #Cardiotonic Agents#Dopamine#Humans#Norepinephrine#Odds Ratio#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Shock, Cardiogenic#Treatment Outcome'
b'Water constraints can mediate evolutionary conflict either among individuals (e.g., parent-offspring conflict, sexual conflict) or within an individual (e.g., cost of reproduction). During pregnancy, water is of particular importance because the female provides all water needed for embryonic development and experiences important maternal shifts in behavior and physiology that, together, can compromise female water balance if water availability is limited. We examined the effect of pregnancy on evaporative water loss and microhabitat selection in a viviparous snake, the aspic viper. We found that both physiological (increased metabolism and body temperature) and morphological (body distension) changes contribute to an increased evaporative water loss in pregnant females. We also found that pregnant females in the wild select warmer and moister basking locations than nonreproductive females, likely to mitigate the conflict between thermal needs and water loss. Water resources likely induce significant reproductive constraints across diverse taxa and thus warrant further consideration in ecological research. From an evolutionary perspective, water constraints during reproduction may contribute to shaping reproductive effort. labels: #Animals#Female#Viperidae#Viviparity, Nonmammalian#Water Loss, Insensible'
b"Purpose: Optic nerve hypoplasia (ONH) is the most common cause of childhood congenital blindness in developed nations, yet the fundamental pathobiology of ONH remains unknown. The objective of this study was to employ a 'face validated' murine model to determine the timing of onset and the pathologic characteristics of ONH.Methods: Based on the robust linkage between X-linked CASK haploinsufficiency and clinically diagnosed ONH, we hypothesized that heterozygous deletion of CASK (CASK(+/-)) in rodents will produce an optic nerve pathology closely recapitulating ONH. We quantitatively analyzed the entire subcortical visual system in female CASK(+/-) mice using immunohistochemistry, anterograde axonal tracing, toluidine blue staining, transmission electron microscopy, and serial block-face scanning electron microscopy.Results: CASK haploinsuffiency in mice phenocopies human ONH with complete penetrance, thus satisfying the 'face validity'. We demonstrate that the optic nerve in CASK(+/-) mice is not only thin, but is comprised of atrophic retinal axons and displays reactive astrogliosis. Myelination of the optic nerve axons remains unchanged. Moreover, we demonstrate a significant decrease in retinal ganglion cell (RGC) numbers and perturbation in retinothalamic connectivity. Finally, we used this mouse model to define the onset and progression of ONH pathology, demonstrating for the first time that optic nerve defects arise at neonatally in CASK(+/-)mice.Conclusions: Optic nerve hypoplasia is a complex neuropathology of the subcortical visual system involving RGC loss, axonopathy, and synaptopathy and originates at a developmental stage in mice that corresponds to the late third trimester development in humans. labels: #Animals#Axons#Disease Models, Animal#Disease Progression#Guanylate Kinases#Immunohistochemistry#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mutation#Optic Nerve#Optic Nerve Diseases#Retinal Ganglion Cells"
b'Voltage-sensitive dye imaging experiments in primary visual cortex (V1) have shown that local, oriented visual stimuli elicit stable orientation-selective activation within the stimulus retinotopic footprint. The cortical activation dynamically extends far beyond the retinotopic footprint, but the peripheral spread stays non-selective-a surprising finding given a number of anatomo-functional studies showing the orientation specificity of long-range connections. Here we use a computational model to investigate this apparent discrepancy by studying the expected population response using known published anatomical constraints. The dynamics of input-driven localized states were simulated in a planar neural field model with multiple sub-populations encoding orientation. The realistic connectivity profile has parameters controlling the clustering of long-range connections and their orientation bias. We found substantial overlap between the anatomically relevant parameter range and a steep decay in orientation selective activation that is consistent with the imaging experiments. In this way our study reconciles the reported orientation bias of long-range connections with the functional expression of orientation selective neural activity. Our results demonstrate this sharp decay is contingent on three factors, that long-range connections are sufficiently diffuse, that the orientation bias of these connections is in an intermediate range (consistent with anatomy) and that excitation is sufficiently balanced by inhibition. Conversely, our modelling results predict that, for reduced inhibition strength, spurious orientation selective activation could be generated through long-range lateral connections. Furthermore, if the orientation bias of lateral connections is very strong, or if inhibition is particularly weak, the network operates close to an instability leading to unbounded cortical activation. labels: #Animals#Computer Simulation#Humans#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Visual Cortex#Visual Fields#Visual Pathways#Visual Perception'
b'The purpose of this study was to determine among patients with candidemia the real rate of ophthalmoscopy and the impact of performing ocular assessment on the outcome of the disease. We performed a post hoc analysis of a prospective, multicenter, population-based candidemia surveillance program implemented in Spain during 2010-2011 (CANDIPOP). Ophthalmoscopy was performed in only 168 of the 365 patients with candidemia (46%). Ocular lesions related to candidemia were found in only 13/168 patients (7.7%), of whom 1 reported ocular symptoms (incidence of symptomatic disease in the whole population, 0.27% [1/365]). Ophthalmological findings led to a change in antifungal therapy in only 5.9% of cases (10/168), and performance of the test was not related to a better outcome. Ocular candidiasis was not associated with a worse outcome and progressed favorably in all but 1 evaluable patient, who did not experience vision loss. The low frequency of ophthalmoscopy and ocular involvement and the asymptomatic nature of ocular candidiasis, with a favorable outcome in almost all cases, lead us to reconsider the need for systematic ophthalmoscopy in all candidemic patients. labels: #Aged#Antifungal Agents#Candidemia#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ophthalmoscopy#Prospective Studies#Spain'
b"Treatment with broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) has proven effective against HIV-1 infections in humanized mice, non-human primates, and humans. Due to the high mutation rate of HIV-1, resistance testing of the patient's viral strains to the bNAbs is still inevitable. So far, bNAb resistance can only be tested in expensive and time-consuming neutralization experiments. Here, we introduce well-performing computational models that predict the neutralization response of HIV-1 to bNAbs given only the envelope sequence of the virus. Using non-linear support vector machines based on a string kernel, the models learnt even the important binding sites of bNAbs with more complex epitopes, i.e., the CD4 binding site targeting bNAbs, proving thereby the biological relevance of the models. To increase the interpretability of the models, we additionally provide a new kind of motif logo for each query sequence, visualizing those residues of the test sequence that influenced the prediction outcome the most. Moreover, we predicted the neutralization sensitivity of around 34,000 HIV-1 samples from different time points to a broad range of bNAbs, enabling the first analysis of HIV resistance to bNAbs on a global scale. The analysis showed for many of the bNAbs a trend towards antibody resistance over time, which had previously only been discovered for a small non-representative subset of the global HIV-1 population. labels: #Antibodies, Neutralizing#Binding Sites#CD4 Antigens#Drug Resistance, Viral#Epitope Mapping#HIV Antibodies#HIV-1#Humans#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Mapping#Sequence Analysis, Protein#Time Factors"
b"Arginine vasopressin (AVP), a hormone secreted by the posterior pituitary, plays a vital role in maintaining vasomotor tone during acute blood loss. We hypothesized that decompensated hemorrhagic shock is associated with decreased AVP stores and supplementation during resuscitation would improve both blood pressure and renal function. Using a decompensated hemorrhagic shock model, male Long-Evans rats were bled to mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) of 40mmHg and maintained until the MAP could not be sustained without fluid. Once 40% of the shed volume was returned in lactated Ringer's (Severe Shock), animals were resuscitated over 60 minutes with 4x the shed volume in lactated Ringer's (LR) or the same fluids with AVP (0.5 units/kg+ 0.03 units/kg/min). Animals (n = 6-9/group) were sacrificed before hemorrhage (Sham), at Severe Shock, following resuscitation (60R, 60R with AVP) or 18 hours post-resuscitation (18hr, 18hr with AVP). Blood samples were taken to measure AVP levels and renal function. Pituitaries were harvested and assayed for AVP. Kidney samples were taken to assess mitochondrial function, histology, and oxidative damage. Baseline pituitary AVP stores (30,364 \xc2\xb1 5311 pg/mg) decreased with severe shock and were significantly depressed post-resuscitation (13,910 \xc2\xb1 3016 pg/ml. p<0.05) and at 18hr (15,592 \xc2\xb11169 pg/ml, p<0.05). Resuscitation with LR+AVP led to higher serum AVP levels at 60R (31\xc2\xb18 vs 79\xc2\xb112; p<0.01) with an improved MAP both at 60R (125\xc2\xb13 vs 77\xc2\xb17mmHg; p<0.01) and 18hr (82\xc2\xb16 vs 69\xc2\xb15mmHg;p<0.05). AVP supplementation preserved complex I respiratory capacity at 60R and both complex I and II function at 18hr (p<0.05). AVP was also associated with decreased reactive oxygen species at 60R (856\xc2\xb167 vs 622\xc2\xb148F RFU) and significantly decreased oxidative damage as measured by mitochondrial lipid peroxidation (0.9\xc2\xb10.1 vs 1.7\xc2\xb10.1 fold change, p<0.01) and nitrosylation (0.9\xc2\xb10.1 vs 1.4\xc2\xb10.2 fold change, p<0.05). With AVP, renal damage was mitigated at 60R and histologic architecture was conserved at 18 hours. In conclusion, pituitary and serum AVP levels decrease during severe hemorrhage and may contribute to the development of decompensated hemorrhagic shock. Supplementing exogenous AVP during resuscitation improves blood pressure, preserves renal mitochondrial function, and mitigates acute kidney injury. labels: #Animals#Arginine Vasopressin#Kidney#Male#Mitochondria#Rats#Rats, Long-Evans#Shock, Hemorrhagic"
b'BACKGROUND/AIMS: Long-term follow-up studies validating the clinical benefit of sustained virological response (SVR) in people with chronic hepatitis C (CHC) infection are lacking. Our aim was to identify rates and predictors of liver fibrosis progression in a large, well characterized cohort of CHC patients in whom paired liver fibrosis assessments were performed more than 10 years apart.METHODS: CHC patients who had undergone a baseline liver biopsy pre-2004 and a follow up liver fibrosis assessment more than 10 years later (biopsy or liver stiffness measurement (LSM) using transient elastography [FibroScan]) were identified. Subjects who had undergone a baseline liver biopsy but had no follow up fibrosis assessment were recalled for LSM. Fibrosis was categorised as mild-moderate (METAVIR F0-2 /LSM result of \xe2\x89\xa4 9.5 kPa) or advanced (METAVIR F3-4/ LSM>9.5 kPa). The primary objective was to assess the association between SVR and the rate of liver fibrosis progression over at least 10 years, defined as an increase from mild-moderate fibrosis at baseline liver biopsy (METAVIR F0-2) to advanced fibrosis at follow-up liver fibrosis assessment.RESULTS: 131 subjects were included in this analysis: 69% male, 82% Caucasian, 60% G1 HCV, 25% G3 HCV. The median age at F/U fibrosis staging was 57 (IQR 54-62) years with median estimated duration of infection 33-years (IQR 29-38). At F/U, liver fibrosis assessment was performed by LSM in 86% and liver biopsy in 14%. The median period between fibrosis assessments was 14-years (IQR 12-17). 109 (83%) participants had received interferon-based antiviral therapy. 40% attained SVR. At F/U, there was a significant increase in the proportion of subjects with advanced liver fibrosis: 27% at baseline vs. 46% at F/U (p = 0.002). The prevalence of advanced fibrosis did not change among subjects who attained SVR, 30% at B/L vs 25% at F/U (p = 0.343). However, advanced fibrosis became more common at F/U among subjects with persistent viremia: 10% at B/L vs 31% at F/U (p = 0.0001). SVR was independently associated with protection from liver fibrosis progression after adjustment for other variables including baseline ALT (p = 0.011), duration of HCV infection and mode of acquisition.CONCLUSION: HCV eradication is associated with lower rates of liver fibrosis progression. The data support early treatment to prevent long-term liver complications of HCV infection. labels: #Disease Progression#Female#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#Viral Load#Viremia'
b"Publication bias is prevalent within the scientific literature. Whilst there are multiple ideas on how to reduce publication bias, only a minority of journals have made substantive changes to address the problem. We aimed to explore the perceived feasibility of strategies to reduce publication bias by gauging opinions of journal editors (n = 73) and other academics/researchers (n = 160) regarding nine methods of publishing and peer-reviewing research: mandatory publication, negative results journals/articles, open reviewing, peer-review training and accreditation, post-publication review, pre-study publication of methodology, published rejection lists, research registration, and two-stage review. Participants completed a questionnaire asking both quantitative (multiple choice or Likert scales) and qualitative (open-ended) questions regarding the barriers to implementing each suggestion, and their strengths and limitations. Participants were asked to rate the nine suggestions, then choose the method they felt was most effective. Mandatory publication was most popularly selected as the 'most effective' method of reducing publication bias for editors (25%), and was the third most popular choice for academics/researchers (14%). The most common selection for academics/researchers was two-stage review (26%), but fewer editors prioritised this (11%). Negative results journals/articles were the second and third most common choices for academics/researchers (21%) and editors (16%), respectively. Editors more commonly chose research registration as 'most effective' (21%), which was favoured by only 6% of academics/researchers. Whilst mandatory publication was generally favoured by respondents, it is infeasible to trial at a journal level. Where suggestions have already been implemented (e.g. negative results journals/articles, trial registration), efforts should be made to objectively assess their efficacy. Two-stage review should be further trialled as its popularity amongst academics/researchers suggests it may be well received, though editors may be less receptive. Several underlying barriers to change also emerged, including scientific culture, impact factors, and researcher training; these should be further explored to reduce publication bias. labels: #Feasibility Studies#Publication Bias"
b"BACKGROUND: The relatively high incidence of cervical cancer in women at older ages is a continuing concern in countries with long-established cervical screening. Controversy remains on when and how to cease screening. Existing population-based studies on the effectiveness of cervical screening at older ages have not considered women's screening history. We performed a nationwide cohort study to investigate the incidence of cervical cancer after age 60 years and its association with cervical screening at age 61-65, stratified by screening history at age 51-60.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using the Total Population Register, we identified 569,132 women born between 1 January 1919 and 31 December 1945, resident in Sweden since age 51. Women's cytological screening records, cervical cancer occurrence, and FIGO stage (for those diagnosed with cancer) were retrieved from national registers and medical charts. We calculated the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer from age 61 to age 80 using a survival function considering competing risk, and estimated the hazard ratio (HR) of cervical cancer in relation to screening status at age 61-65 from Cox models, adjusted for birth cohort and level of education, conditioning on women's screening history in their 50s. In women unscreened in their 50s, the cumulative incidence up to age 80 was 5.0 per 1,000 women, and screening at age 61-65 was associated with a lower risk for cervical cancer (HR = 0.42, 95% CI 0.24-0.72), corresponding to a decrease of 3.3 cancer cases per 1,000 women. A higher cumulative incidence and similarly statistically significant risk decrease was seen for women with abnormal smears in their 50s. In women adequately or inadequately screened with only normal results between age 51 and age 60, the cumulative incidence of cervical cancer from age 61 to 80 was 1.6 and 2.5 per 1,000 women, respectively, and further screening at age 61-65 was not associated with statistically significant decreases of cervical cancer risk up to age 80, but with fewer cancer cases of advanced stages at age 61-65. Adjustment for potential lifestyle confounders was limited.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, cervical screening with cytology at age 61-65 was associated with a statistically significant reduction of subsequent cervical cancer risk for women who were unscreened, or screened with abnormalities, in their 50s. In women screened with normal results in their 50s, the risk for future cancer was not sizeable, and the risk reduction associated with continued screening appeared limited. These findings should inform the current debate regarding age and criteria to discontinue cervical screening. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Age Factors#Aged#Atypical Squamous Cells of the Cervix#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cohort Studies#Early Detection of Cancer#Female#Humans#Incidence#Middle Aged#Papanicolaou Test#Proportional Hazards Models#Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions of the Cervix#Sweden#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms#Vaginal Smears"
b"Monitoring is an essential component of wildlife management and conservation. However, the usefulness of monitoring data is often undermined by the lack of 1) coordination across organizations and regions, 2) meaningful management and conservation objectives, and 3) rigorous sampling designs. Although many improvements to avian monitoring have been discussed, the recommendations have been slow to emerge in large-scale programs. We introduce the Integrated Monitoring in Bird Conservation Regions (IMBCR) program designed to overcome the above limitations. Our objectives are to outline the development of a statistically defensible sampling design to increase the value of large-scale monitoring data and provide example applications to demonstrate the ability of the design to meet multiple conservation and management objectives. We outline the sampling process for the IMBCR program with a focus on the Badlands and Prairies Bird Conservation Region (BCR 17). We provide two examples for the Brewer's sparrow (Spizella breweri) in BCR 17 demonstrating the ability of the design to 1) determine hierarchical population responses to landscape change and 2) estimate hierarchical habitat relationships to predict the response of the Brewer's sparrow to conservation efforts at multiple spatial scales. The collaboration across organizations and regions provided economy of scale by leveraging a common data platform over large spatial scales to promote the efficient use of monitoring resources. We designed the IMBCR program to address the information needs and core conservation and management objectives of the participating partner organizations. Although it has been argued that probabilistic sampling designs are not practical for large-scale monitoring, the IMBCR program provides a precedent for implementing a statistically defensible sampling design from local to bioregional scales. We demonstrate that integrating conservation and management objectives with rigorous statistical design and analyses ensures reliable knowledge about bird populations that is relevant and integral to bird conservation at multiple scales. labels: #Animals#Birds#Conservation of Natural Resources#Environmental Monitoring"
b"OBJECTIVE: This study sought to examine the sources of inequity in health examination service utilization by women from underdeveloped areas in western China.METHODS: Based on data from the 5th National Health Service Survey in Shaanxi province, women's utilization of health examination services was examined according to gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates. The equity of health examination service utilization by 15- to 64-year-old women and the factors contributing to inequity were determined using the health concentration index, decomposition of the concentration index, and the horizontal inequity index.RESULTS: The examination rates for gynecological, cervical smear, and breast exams for 15- to 64-year-old women in Shaanxi province were 40.61%, 27.08%, and 24.59%, respectively. The horizontal inequity indices of gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 0.0480, 0.0423, and 0.0764, respectively, and each examination rate was higher for wealthy individuals. The contribution rates of economic status to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 65.80%, 74.31%, and 56.49%, respectively. The contribution rates of educational status to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 21.01%, 14.83% and 30.00%, respectively. The contribution rates of age to the inequalities in gynecological, cervical smear, and breast examination rates were 25.77%, 26.55%, and 18.40%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Women's health examination rates differed between populations with different socio-demographic characteristics. There is pro-wealth inequality in each examination rate. This study found that financial status, age, and education level were the main reasons for the unequal utilization of health examination services. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#China#Female#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Medically Underserved Area#Middle Aged#Papanicolaou Test#Physical Examination#Women's Health Services#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: A close relationship between Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) has been described, but the exact nature of this link remains unclear. Current epidemiological data refer exclusively to the MetS prevalence among patients with COPD and data about the prevalence of COPD in MetS patients are still unavailable.AIM OF THE STUDY: To analyse and compare risk factors, clinical and metabolic characteristics, as well as the main respiratory function parameters, among patients affected by MetS, COPD or both diseases.PATIENTS: We recruited 59 outpatients with MetS and 76 outpatients with COPD. After medical history collection, physical examination, blood sampling for routine analysis, spirometric evaluation, they were subdivided into MetS (n = 46), MetS+COPD (n = 60), COPD (n = 29).RESULTS: A MetS diagnosis was assigned to 62% of COPD patients recruited in the COPD Outpatients Clinic of the Pneumology Department, while the COPD prevalence in MetS patients enrolled in the Internal Medicine Metabolic Disorders Outpatients Clinic was 22%. More than 60% of subjects enrolled in each Department were unaware that they suffered from an additional disease. MetS+COPD patients exhibited significantly higher C-peptide levels. We also found a positive relation between C-peptide and pack-years in all subjects and a negative correlation between C-peptide and vitamin D only in current smokers. Finally, a negative association emerged between smoking and vitamin D.CONCLUSIONS: We have estimated, for the first time, the COPD prevalence in MetS and suggest a potential role of smoking in inducing insulin resistance. Moreover, a direct effect of smoking on vitamin D levels is proposed as a novel mechanism, which may account for both insulin resistance and COPD development. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Smoking#Vitamin D'
b'ApbE is a member of a novel family of flavin transferases that incorporates flavin mononucleotide (FMN) to subunits of diverse respiratory complexes, which fulfill important homeostatic functions. In this work a detailed characterization of Vibrio cholerae ApbE physiologic activity, substrate specificity and pH dependency was carried out. The data obtained show novel characteristics of the regulation and function of this family. For instance, our experiments indicate that divalent cations are essential for ApbE function, and that the selectivity depends largely on size and the coordination sphere of the cation. Our data also show that ApbE regulation by pH, ADP and potassium is an important mechanism that enhances the adaptation, survival and colonization of V. cholerae in the small intestine. Moreover, studies of the pH-dependency of the activity show that the reaction is favored under alkaline conditions, with a pKa of 8.4. These studies, together with sequence and structure analysis allowed us to identify His257, which is absolutely conserved in the family, as a candidate for the residue whose deprotonation controls the activity. Remarkably, the mutant H257G abolished the flavin transfer activity, strongly indicating that this residue plays an important role in the catalytic mechanism of ApbE. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Cations, Divalent#Cations, Monovalent#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Kinetics#Substrate Specificity#Vibrio cholerae'
b'Suboptimal gestational weight gain (GWG), which is linked to increased risk of adverse outcomes for a pregnant woman and her infant, is prevalent. In the study of a large cohort of Canadian pregnant women, our goals are to estimate the individual weight growth trajectory using sparsely collected bodyweight data, and to identify the factors affecting the weight change during pregnancy, such as prepregnancy body mass index (BMI), dietary intakes and physical activity. The first goal was achieved through functional principal component analysis (FPCA) by conditional expectation. For the second goal, we used linear regression with the total weight gain as the response variable. The trajectory modeling through FPCA had a significantly smaller root mean square error (RMSE) and improved adaptability than the classic nonlinear mixed-effect models, demonstrating a novel tool that can be used to facilitate real time monitoring and interventions of GWG. Our regression analysis showed that prepregnancy BMI had a high predictive value for the weight changes during pregnancy, which agrees with the published weight gain guideline. labels: #Body Mass Index#Female#Humans#Models, Theoretical#Pregnancy#Principal Component Analysis#Weight Gain'
b'Condomless anal sex between male partners is the primary risk factor for HIV transmission among men who have sex with men (MSM). Correlates of condomless anal sex have been well-studied in developed countries, but they have received less attention in lower-to-middle income countries (LMIC), where MSM are often subject to stigma, discrimination, intolerance, and even the criminalization of same sex behavior. In Mexico, a LMIC where traditional views on homosexuality are common, HIV prevalence among MSM is high (16.9%), yet little research has been conducted on the correlates of condomless anal sex in this high-risk population. The present study examined correlates of condomless anal sex among 201 MSM recruited in Tijuana, Mexico, with a focus on the role of public sex venues in relation to sexual risk behavior. Eligibility requirements were: biologically male, 18 years of age or older, resident of Tijuana, and self-reported anal or oral sex with a male partner in the past year. Participants completed an interviewer-administered, demographic and psychosocial survey, and were tested for HIV and syphilis. A hierarchical multiple linear regression model was tested to identify correlates of condomless anal sex. Thirty-eight percent of participants (N = 76) reported condomless anal sex with a male partner in the past 2 months. Higher levels of condomless anal sex were associated with higher levels of depressive symptoms, greater sexual compulsivity, and more frequent seeking out of sex partners in a public venue in the past 2 months. In view of these findings, we recommend the development of multi-level, "combination" interventions, which in the Mexican context should include enhanced condom promotion and distribution, improved availability and access to mental health treatment and counseling services, and expanded HIV/STI testing in public venues. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Condoms#HIV Infections#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Sexual Behavior#Sexual Partners#Young Adult'
b'Renalase decreases circulating catecholamines concentration and is important in maintaining primary cellular metabolism. Renalase acts through the plasma membrane calcium ATPase 4b in the heart, which affects pressure overload but not exercise induced heart hypertrophy. The aim of this study was to test the association between a functional polymorphism Glu37Asp (rs2296545) of the renalase gene and left ventricular hypertrophy in a large cohort of patients with aortic stenosis. The study group consisted of 657 patients with aortic stenosis referred for aortic valve replacement. Preoperative echocardiographic assessment was performed to obtain cardiac phenotypes. Generalized-linear models were implemented to analyze data using crude or full model adjusted for selected clinical factors. In females, the Asp37 variant of the Glu37Asp polymorphism was associated with higher left ventricular mass (p = 0.0021 and p = 0.055 crude and full model respectively), intraventricular septal thickness (p = 0.0003 and p = 0.0143) and posterior wall thickness (p = 0.0005 and p = 0.0219) all indexed to body surface area, as well as relative wall thickness (p = 0.001 and p = 0.0097). No significant associations were found among the male patients. In conclusion, we have found the association of the renalase Glu37Asp polymorphism with left ventricle hypertrophy in large group of females with aortic stenosis. The Glu37Asp polymorphism causes not only amino-acid substitution in FAD binding domain but may also change binding affinity of the hypoxia- and hypertrophy-related transcription factors and influence renalase gene expression. Our data suggest that renalase might play a role in hypertrophic response to pressure overload, but the exact mechanism requires further investigation. labels: #Aged#Aortic Valve Stenosis#Binding Sites#Cardiomegaly#Cohort Studies#Echocardiography#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Monoamine Oxidase#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Transcription Factors'
b"TW-37 is a novel, potent and non-peptide Bcl-2 small-molecule inhibitor. Its activity in colorectal cancer (CRC) cells is studied. In both HCT-116 cells and primary human colon cancer cells, treatment with TW-37 at only nM concentration efficiently inhibited cell survival and proliferation. TW-37 also induced caspase-3/9 and apoptosis activation in CRC cells. Feedback autophagy activation was observed in TW-37-treated CRC cells. Reversely pharmacological autophagy inhibition or Beclin-1 knockdown by targeted-shRNA potentiated TW-37-induced apoptosis and killing of CRC cells. In vivo, intravenous injection of TW-37 inhibited HCT-116 tumor growth in mice. TW-37's anti-tumor activity was further potentiated against Beclin-1-silenced HCT-116 tumors. Together, targeting Bcl-2 family protein by TW-37 efficiently inhibits CRC cell growth in vitro and in vivo. Inhibition of feedback autophagy activation could further sensitize TW-37. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Benzamides#Cell Proliferation#Colorectal Neoplasms#HCT116 Cells#Humans#Mice#Mice, SCID#Sulfones#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'Theoretical models of populations and swarms typically start with the assumption that the motion of agents is governed by the local stimuli. However, an intelligent agent, with some understanding of the laws that govern its habitat, can anticipate the future, and make predictions to gather resources more efficiently. Here we study a specific model of this kind, where agents aim to maximize their consumption of a diffusing resource, by attempting to predict the future of a resource field and the actions of other agents. Once the agents make a prediction, they are attracted to move towards regions that have, and will have, denser resources. We find that the further the agents attempt to see into the future, the more their attempts at prediction fail, and the less resources they consume. We also study the case where predictive agents compete against non-predictive agents and find the predictors perform better than the non-predictors only when their relative numbers are very small. We conclude that predictivity pays off either when the predictors do not see too far into the future or the number of predictors is small. labels: #Diffusion#Models, Theoretical#Motion'
b'Neisseria meningitidis is the causative agent of invasive meningococcal disease (IMD). A recombinant vaccine called Bexsero\xc2\xae incorporates four subcapsular antigens (fHbp, NHBA, NadA and PorA) which are used to assign a Bexsero\xc2\xae antigen sequence type (BAST) to each meningococcal strain. The vaccine elicits an immune response against combinations of variants of these antigens which have been grouped into specific BAST profiles that have been shown to have different distributions within geographical locations thus potentially affecting the efficacy of the vaccine. In this study, invasive meningococcal disease isolates from the western seaboard of Australia (Western Australia; WA) were compared to those from the south-eastern seaboard (Victoria; VIC) from 2008 to 2012. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of 131 meningococci from VIC and 70 meningococci from WA were analysed for MLST, FetA and BAST profiling. Serogroup B predominated in both jurisdictions and a total of 10 MLST clonal complexes (cc) were shared by both states. Isolates belonging to cc22, cc103 and cc1157 were unique to VIC whilst isolates from cc60 and cc212 were unique to WA. Clonal complex 41/44 represented one-third of the meningococcal population in each state but the predominant ST was locally different: ST-6058 in VIC and ST-146 in WA. Of the 108 BAST profiles identified in this collection, only 9 BASTs were simultaneously observed in both states. A significantly larger proportion of isolates in VIC harboured alleles for the NHBA-2 peptide and fHbp-1, antigenic variants predicted to be covered by the Bexsero\xc2\xae vaccine. The estimate for vaccine coverage in WA (47.1% [95% CI: 41.1-53.1%]) was significantly lower than that in VIC (66.4% [95% CI: 62.3-70.5%]). In conclusion, the antigenic structure of meningococci causing invasive disease in two geographically distinct states of Australia differed significantly during the study period which may affect vaccine effectiveness and highlights the need for representative surveillance when predicting potential impact of meningococcal B vaccines. labels: #Antigens, Bacterial#Genes, Bacterial#Humans#Neisseria meningitidis#Victoria#Western Australia'
b"The progression of Alzheimer's disease is causatively linked to the accumulation of amyloid-\xce\xb2 aggregates in the brain, however, it is not clear how the amyloid aggregates initiate the death of neuronal cells. The in vitro toxic effects of amyloid peptides are most commonly examined using the human neuroblastoma derived SH-SY5Y cell line and here we show that differentiated neuron-like SH-SY5Y cells are more sensitive to amyloid peptides than non-differentiated cells, because the latter lack long neurites. Exogenous soluble amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 covered cell bodies and whole neurites in differentiated cells with dense fibrils, causing neurite beading and fragmentation, whereas preformed amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 fibrils had no toxic effects. Importantly, spontaneously fibrillizing amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-42 peptide exhibited substantially higher cellular toxicity than amyloid-\xce\xb2 1-40, which did not form fibrils under the experimental conditions. These results support the hypothesis that peptide toxicity is related to the active fibrillization process in the incubation mixture. labels: #Amyloid beta-Peptides#Apoptosis#Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Tumor#Humans#Neurites#Peptide Fragments"
b"Tuberculosis is a fatal human infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) that is prevalent worldwide. Mycobacteria differ from other bacteria in that they have a cell wall composed of specific surface glycans that are the major determinant of these organisms' pathogenicity. The interaction of M. tuberculosis with pattern recognition receptors (PRRs), in particular C-type lectin receptors (CLRs), on the surface of macrophages plays a central role in initiating innate and adaptive immunity, but the picture as a whole remains a puzzle. Defining novel mechanisms by which host receptors interact with pathogens in order to modulate a specific immune response is an area of intense research. In this study, based on an in vitro lectin binding assay, CLEC9A (DNGR-1) is identified as a novel CLR that binds with mycobacteria. Our results with CLEC9A-knocked down cells and a CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein as blocking agents show that CLEC9A is involved in the activation of SYK and MAPK signaling in response to heat-killed M. tuberculosis H37Ra treatment, and it then promotes the production of CXCL8 and IL-1\xce\xb2 in macrophages. The CXCL8 and IL-1\xce\xb2 secreted by the activated macrophages are critical to neutrophil recruitment and activation. In a in vivo mouse model, when the interaction between CLEC9A and H37Ra is interfered with by treatment with CLEC9A-Fc fusion protein, this reduces lung inflammation and cell infiltration. These findings demonstrate that CLEC9A is a specialized receptor that modulates the innate immune response when there is a mycobacterial infection. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Hot Temperature#Humans#Lectins, C-Type#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Neutrophils#Protein Kinases#Receptors, Mitogen#Signal Transduction"
b'Neuromodulation of peripheral nerves with bioelectronic devices is a promising approach for treating a wide range of disorders. Wireless powering could enable long-term operation of these devices, but achieving high performance for miniaturized and deeply placed devices remains a technological challenge. We report the miniaturized integration of a wireless powering system in soft neuromodulation device (15 mm length, 2.7 mm diameter) and demonstrate high performance (about 10%) during in vivo wireless stimulation of the vagus nerve in a porcine animal model. The increased performance is enabled by the generation of a focused and circularly polarized field that enhances efficiency and provides immunity to polarization misalignment. These performance characteristics establish the clinical potential of wireless powering for emerging therapies based on neuromodulation. labels: #Animals#Electrodes#Equipment Design#Female#Miniaturization#Peripheral Nerves#Swine#Wireless Technology'
b'Alopecia X is a hair cycle arrest disorder in Pomeranians. Histologically, kenogen and telogen hair follicles predominate, whereas anagen follicles are sparse. The induction of anagen relies on the activation of hair follicle stem cells and their subsequent proliferation and differentiation. Stem cell function depends on finely tuned interactions of signaling molecules and transcription factors, which are not well defined in dogs. We performed transcriptome profiling on skin biopsies to analyze altered molecular pathways in alopecia X. Biopsies from five affected and four non-affected Pomeranians were investigated. Differential gene expression revealed a downregulation of key regulator genes of the Wnt (CTNNB1, LEF1, TCF3, WNT10B) and Shh (SHH, GLI1, SMO, PTCH2) pathways. In mice it has been shown that Wnt and Shh signaling results in stem cell activation and differentiation Thus our findings are in line with the lack of anagen hair follicles in dogs with Alopecia X. We also observed a significant downregulation of the stem cell markers SOX9, LHX2, LGR5, TCF7L1 and GLI1 whereas NFATc1, a quiescence marker, was upregulated in alopecia X. Moreover, genes coding for enzymes directly involved in the sex hormone metabolism (CYP1A1, CYP1B1, HSD17B14) were differentially regulated in alopecia X. These findings are in agreement with the so far proposed but not yet proven deregulation of the sex hormone metabolism in this disease. labels: #Alopecia#Animals#Biomarkers#Dogs#Female#Hair#Male#Receptors, Calcitriol#Stem Cells'
b'BACKGROUND: We have previously shown that an HIV vaccine regimen including three doses of HIV-modified vaccinia virus Ankara vector expressing HIV-1 antigens from clade B (MVA-B) was safe and elicited moderate and durable (1 year) T-cell and antibody responses in 75% and 95% of HIV-negative volunteers (n = 24), respectively (RISVAC02 study). Here, we describe the long-term durability of vaccine-induced responses and the safety and immunogenicity of an additional MVA-B boost.METHODS: 13 volunteers from the RISVAC02 trial were recruited to receive a fourth dose of MVA-B 4 years after the last immunization. End-points were safety, cellular and humoral immune responses to HIV-1 and vector antigens assessed by ELISPOT, intracellular cytokine staining (ICS) and ELISA performed before and 2, 4 and 12 weeks after receiving the boost.RESULTS: Volunteers reported 64 adverse events (AEs), although none was a vaccine-related serious AE. After 4 years from the 1st dose of the vaccine, only 2 volunteers maintained low HIV-specific T-cell responses. After the late MVA-B boost, a modest increase in IFN-\xce\xb3 T-cell responses, mainly directed against Env, was detected by ELISPOT in 5/13 (38%) volunteers. ICS confirmed similar results with 45% of volunteers showing that CD4+ T-cell responses were mainly directed against Env, whereas CD8+ T cell-responses were similarly distributed against Env, Gag and GPN. In terms of antibody responses, 23.1% of the vaccinees had detectable Env-specific binding antibodies 4 years after the last MVA-B immunization with a mean titer of 96.5. The late MVA-B boost significantly improved both the response rate (92.3%) and the magnitude of the systemic binding antibodies to gp120 (mean titer of 11460). HIV-1 neutralizing antibodies were also enhanced and detected in 77% of volunteers. Moreover, MVA vector-specific T cell and antibody responses were boosted in 80% and 100% of volunteers respectively.CONCLUSIONS: One boost of MVA-B four years after receiving 3 doses of the same vaccine was safe, induced moderate increases in HIV-specific T cell responses in 38% of volunteers but significantly boosted the binding and neutralizing antibody responses to HIV-1 and to the MVA vector.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01923610. labels: #AIDS Vaccines#Antibodies, Neutralizing#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#HIV Antibodies#HIV-1#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Immunization, Secondary#Placebos'
b"The African lion is the only big cat listed on CITES Appendix II, and the only one for which international commercial trade is legal under CITES. The trade in lion body parts, and especially the contentious trade in bones from South Africa to Asia, has raised concerns spanning continents and cultures. Debates were amplified at the 2016 CITES Conference of the Parties (CoP17) when a proposal to up-list lions to Appendix I was not supported and a compromise to keep them on Appendix II, with a bone trade quota for South Africa, was reached instead. CoP17 underscored a need for further information on the lion bone trade and the consequences for lions across the continent. Legal international trade in bones to Asia, allegedly to supply the substitute 'tiger bone' market, began in South Africa in February 2008 when the first CITES permits were issued. It was initially unclear the degree to which bones were sourced from captive-origin lions, and whether trade was a threat to wild lion populations. Our original assessment of the legal CITES-permitted lion bone trade from South Africa to East-Southeast Asia was for the period 2008-2011 (published 2015). In this paper, we consolidate new information that has become available for 2012-2016, including CITES reports from other African countries, and data on actual exports for three years to 2016 supplied by a freight forwarding company. Thus, we update the figures on the legal trade in lion bones from Africa to East-Southeast Asia in the period 2008-2016. We also contextualise the basis for global concerns by reviewing the history of the trade and its relation to tigers, poaching and wildlife trafficking. CITES permits issued to export bones escalated from \xc2\xb1314y-1 skeletons from 2008-2011, to \xc2\xb11312y-1 skeletons from 2013-2015. South Africa was the only legal exporter of bones to Asia until 2013 when Namibia issued permits to export skeletons to Vietnam. While CITES permits to export \xc2\xb15363 skeletons from Africa to Asia from 2008-2015 were issued (99.1% from South Africa; 0.7% from Namibia) (51% for Laos), actual exports were less than stated on the permits. However, information on actual exports from 2014-2016 indicated that>3400 skeletons were exported in that period. In total,>6000 skeletons weighing no less than 70 tonnes have been shipped to East-Southeast Asia since 2008. Since few wild lions are hunted and poached within South African protected areas, skeletons for the legal trade appear to be derived from captive bred lions. However, confirmation of a 116kg shipment from Uganda to Laos, and reports of lion poaching in neighbouring countries, indicate that urgent proactive monitoring and evaluation of the legal and illegal trade is necessary in African lion range states where vulnerable wild lion populations are likely to be adversely affected. labels: #Africa#Animals#Asia, Southeastern#Bone and Bones#Commerce#Lions"
b'The initial theoretical connections between Leontief input-output models and Markov chains were established back in 1950s. However, considering the wide variety of mathematical properties of Markov chains, so far there has not been a full investigation of evolving world economic networks with Markov chain formalism. In this work, using the recently available world input-output database, we investigated the evolution of the world economic network from 1995 to 2011 through analysis of a time series of finite Markov chains. We assessed different aspects of this evolving system via different known properties of the Markov chains such as mixing time, Kemeny constant, steady state probabilities and perturbation analysis of the transition matrices. First, we showed how the time series of mixing times and Kemeny constants could be used as an aggregate index of globalization. Next, we focused on the steady state probabilities as a measure of structural power of the economies that are comparable to GDP shares of economies as the traditional index of economies welfare. Further, we introduced two measures of systemic risk, called systemic influence and systemic fragility, where the former is the ratio of number of influenced nodes to the total number of nodes, caused by a shock in the activity of a node, and the latter is based on the number of times a specific economic node is affected by a shock in the activity of any of the other nodes. Finally, focusing on Kemeny constant as a global indicator of monetary flow across the network, we showed that there is a paradoxical effect of a change in activity levels of economic nodes on the overall flow of the world economic network. While the economic slowdown of the majority of nodes with high structural power results to a slower average monetary flow over the network, there are some nodes, where their slowdowns improve the overall quality of the network in terms of connectivity and the average flow of the money. labels: #Economics#Internationality#Markov Chains#Models, Theoretical'
b'Recent findings suggest that vertebral osteophytes increase the resistance of the spine to compression. However, the role of vertebral osteophytes on the biomechanical response of the spine under fast dynamic compression, up to failure, is unclear. Seventeen human spine specimens composed of three vertebrae (from T5-T7 to T11-L1) and their surrounding soft tissues were harvested from nine cadavers, aged 77 to 92 years. Specimens were imaged using quantitative computer tomography (QCT) for medical observation, classification of the intervertebral disc degeneration (Thomson grade) and measurement of the vertebral trabecular density (VTD), height and cross-sectional area. Specimens were divided into two groups (with (n = 9) or without (n = 8) substantial vertebral body osteophytes) and compressed axially at a dynamic displacement rate of 1 m/s, up to failure. Normalized force-displacement curves, videos and QCT images allowed characterizing failure parameters (force, displacement and energy at failure) and fracture patterns. Results were analyzed using chi-squared tests for sampling distributions and linear regression for correlations between VTD and failure parameters. Specimens with substantial vertebral body osteophytes present higher stiffness (2.7 times on average) and force at failure (1.8 times on average) than other segments. The presence of osteophytes significantly influences the location, pattern and type of fracture. VTD was a good predictor of the dynamic force and energy at failure for specimens without substantial osteophytes. This study also showed that vertebral body osteophytes provide a protective mechanism to the underlying vertebra against severe compression fractures. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Cadaver#Female#Fractures, Compression#History, 18th Century#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Osteophyte#Spinal Fractures#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b"The aim of this study was to determine the normal location, wall thickness and motility of the right dorsal colon in adult ponies and miniature horses. The abdominal ultrasonography examination was performed in a study group consisting of 23 ponies and miniature horses and in a control group comprising ten Thoroughbred horses. The procedure was performed in unsedated standing animals. The location and the thickness of the right dorsal colonic wall was examined on the right side of the abdomen between the 10th and the 14th intercostal space. The contractility was recorded in the 12th intercostal space. A comparative analysis between the study group and control group was carried out using the Student's t-test. Pearson's linear correlation coefficient was used to calculate the correlation between the thickness of the colonic wall as well as the number of peristaltic movements and age, wither height and body mass of the animals. The right dorsal colon was identified in all the horses in the 12th intercostal space. In all the intercostal spaces the mean \xc2\xb1 standard deviation (SD) wall thickness of the right dorsal colon was 0.27 \xc2\xb1 0.03 cm in the horses from the study group and 0.37 \xc2\xb1 0.03 cm in the control horses. The mean number of peristaltic contractions was 4.05 \xc2\xb1 1.07 per minute in the animals from the study group and 1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.46 contractions per minute in the control group. The values of the ultrasonographic wall thickness and peristaltic motility in small breed horses in the present study were different from the values obtained for large breed horses. The study also found that the right dorsal colon in small breed horses is physiologically located in the 12th intercostal space. This suggests that different reference values should be used in small horse breeds when performing an ultrasound examination. labels: #Animals#Colon#Horse Diseases#Horses#Peristalsis#Ultrasonography"
b"Citizen report cards on health care providers have been identified as a potential means to increase citizen engagement, provider accountability and health systems performance. Research in high-income settings indicates that the wording, presentation and display of performance information are critical to achieve these goals. However, there are limited insights on developing effective report card designs for middle- and low-income settings. We conducted cognitive interviews to assess consumers' understanding, interpretation of and preferences for displaying information for a health care report card in rural Tajikistan. We recruited a convenience sample of 40 citizens (20 women and 20 men aged 18-45) from rural areas of two provinces of Tajikistan (Soghd and Khatlon oblasts). The interview protocol was adapted from the model of cognitive interviews used in social science research to improve survey questionnaires. We used multivariate regression to assess understanding and interpretation of the report card; chi2 tests to assess differences in preferences for displaying information; and tests of proportions to assess the preferred comparison group. Respondents understood the main idea of the report card and are not confused by the indicators or display. However, many respondents had difficulties making comparisons, and when asked to identify worst-performing services. Respondents preferred detailed rankings using school grades, comparisons of their local clinic with the regional or national average performance, and the use of color in the report card. We found some heterogeneity across the two provinces. Overall, our findings are promising regarding the citizens' comprehension of health care report cards in rural Tajikistan, while underscoring the challenges of effectively providing health care performance information to communities. Cognitive interviews and iterative testing can support an effective implementation of reporting initiatives. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Developing Countries#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Male#Middle Aged#Primary Health Care#Rural Health Services#Tajikistan#Young Adult"
b'Open scholarship, such as the sharing of articles, code, data, and educational resources, has the potential to improve university research and education as well as increase the impact universities can have beyond their own walls. To support this perspective, I present evidence from case studies, published literature, and personal experiences as a practicing open scholar. I describe some of the challenges inherent to practicing open scholarship and some of the tensions created by incompatibilities between institutional policies and personal practice. To address this, I propose several concrete actions universities could take to support open scholarship and outline ways in which such initiatives could benefit the public as well as institutions. Importantly, I do not think most of these actions would require new funding but rather a redistribution of existing funds and a rewriting of internal policies to better align with university missions of knowledge dissemination and societal impact. labels: #Information Dissemination#Research#Universities'
b'BACKGROUND: Data on long-term outcomes of patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) in sub-Saharan Africa are few. We describe outcomes of patients commenced on ART at Newlands Clinic between 2004 and 2006 after \xe2\x89\xa510 years of comprehensive care including, psychosocial, adherence and food support.METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, patient data from an electronic medical record collected during routine care were analysed. We describe baseline characteristics, virological and clinical outcomes, attrition rates, and treatment adverse effects until November 2016. We defined virological suppression as viral load<50 copies/ml and virological failure as>1000 copies/ml after \xe2\x89\xa56 months of ART.RESULTS: We analysed data for 605 patients (67% female) who commenced ART, and were followed-up for 5819 person-years (median: 10.7 years, IQR: 10.1-11.4). Median age at ART initiation was 34 years (IQR: 17-42). Pre-ART, 129 (21.3%) patients had history of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB). In care, 66 (11%) developed PTB, and 24 (4%) developed extrapulmonary tuberculosis. 385 (63.6%) patients experienced \xe2\x89\xa51 adverse event, the most frequent being stavudine-induced peripheral neuropathy (n = 252, 41.7%). At database closure on 14 November 2016, 474 (78.3%) patients were still in care, 428 (90.3%) being virologically suppressed, and 21 (4.4%) failing. While 483 (79.8%) remained on first line, 122 (20.2%) were switched to second line ART. Fifty-nine patients (9.8%) were transferred to other ART facilities, 45 (7.4%) were lost to follow-up, 25 (4.1%) died, and two stopped ART.CONCLUSION: Comprehensive HIV care can result in low mortality, high retention in care and virologic suppression rates in resource limited settings. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Ambulatory Care Facilities#Anti-HIV Agents#Cohort Studies#Comprehensive Health Care#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Lost to Follow-Up#Male#Young Adult#Zimbabwe'
b'Genetic disruption of the dystrophin complex produces muscular dystrophy characterized by a fragile muscle plasma membrane leading to excessive muscle degeneration. Two genetic modifiers of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy implicate the transforming growth factor \xce\xb2 (TGF\xce\xb2) pathway, osteopontin encoded by the SPP1 gene and latent TGF\xce\xb2 binding protein 4 (LTBP4). We now evaluated the functional effect of these modifiers in the context of muscle injury and repair to elucidate their mechanisms of action. We found that excess osteopontin exacerbated sarcolemmal injury, and correspondingly, that loss of osteopontin reduced injury extent both in isolated myofibers and in muscle in vivo. We found that ablation of osteopontin was associated with reduced expression of TGF\xce\xb2 and TGF\xce\xb2-associated pathways. We identified that increased TGF\xce\xb2 resulted in reduced expression of Anxa1 and Anxa6, genes encoding key components of the muscle sarcolemma resealing process. Genetic manipulation of Ltbp4 in dystrophic muscle also directly modulated sarcolemmal resealing, and Ltbp4 alleles acted in concert with Anxa6, a distinct modifier of muscular dystrophy. These data provide a model in which a feed forward loop of TGF\xce\xb2 and osteopontin directly impacts the capacity of muscle to recover from injury, and identifies an intersection of genetic modifiers on muscular dystrophy. labels: #Animals#Annexin A1#Annexin A6#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Genes, Modifier#Latent TGF-beta Binding Proteins#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred DBA#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Dystrophy, Animal#Osteopontin#Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta#Recovery of Function#Sarcolemma'
b'Coral reef ecosystems of many sub-tropical and tropical marine coastal environments have suffered significant degradation from anthropogenic sources. Research to inform management strategies that mitigate stressors and promote a healthy ecosystem has focused on the ecology and physiology of coral reefs and associated organisms. Few studies focus on the surrounding pelagic communities, which are equally important to ecosystem function. Zooplankton, often dominated by small crustaceans such as copepods, is an important food source for invertebrates and fishes, especially larval fishes. The reef-associated zooplankton includes a sub-neustonic copepod family that could serve as an indicator species for the community. Here, we describe the generation of a de novo transcriptome for one such copepod, Labidocera madurae, a pontellid from an intensively-studied coral reef ecosystem, K\xc4\x81ne\'ohe Bay, Oahu, Hawai\'i. The transcriptome was assembled using high-throughput sequence data obtained from whole organisms. It comprised 211,002 unique transcripts, including 72,391 with coding regions. It was assessed for quality and completeness using multiple workflows. Bench-marking-universal-single-copy-orthologs (BUSCO) analysis identified transcripts for 88% of expected eukaryotic core proteins. Targeted gene-discovery analyses included searches for transcripts coding full-length "giant" proteins (>4,000 amino acids), proteins and splice variants of voltage-gated sodium channels, and proteins involved in the circadian signaling pathway. Four different reference transcriptomes were generated and compared for the detection of differential gene expression between copepodites and adult females; 6,229 genes were consistently identified as differentially expressed between the two regardless of reference. Automated bioinformatics analyses and targeted manual gene curation suggest that the de novo assembled L. madurae transcriptome is of high quality and completeness. This transcriptome provides a new resource for assessing the global physiological status of a planktonic species inhabiting a coral reef ecosystem that is subjected to multiple anthropogenic stressors. The workflows provide a template for generating and assessing transcriptomes in other non-model species. labels: #Animals#Copepoda#Coral Reefs#Ecosystem#Environmental Monitoring#Hawaii#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Transcriptome'
b'Estrogens act by binding to estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ER\xce\xb1, ER\xce\xb2), ligand-dependent transcription factors that play crucial roles in sex differentiation, tumor growth and cardiovascular physiology. Estrogens also activate the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER), however the function of GPER in vivo is less well understood. Here we find that GPER is required for normal heart rate in zebrafish embryos. Acute exposure to estrogens increased heart rate in wildtype and in ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 mutant embryos but not in GPER mutants. GPER mutant embryos exhibited reduced basal heart rate, while heart rate was normal in ER\xce\xb1 and ER\xce\xb2 mutants. We detected gper transcript in discrete regions of the brain and pituitary but not in the heart, suggesting that GPER acts centrally to regulate heart rate. In the pituitary, we observed gper expression in cells that regulate levels of thyroid hormone triiodothyronine (T3), a hormone known to increase heart rate. Compared to wild type, GPER mutants had reduced levels of T3 and estrogens, suggesting pituitary abnormalities. Exposure to exogenous T3, but not estradiol, rescued the reduced heart rate phenotype in gper mutant embryos, demonstrating that T3 acts downstream of GPER to regulate heart rate. Using genetic and mass spectrometry approaches, we find that GPER regulates maternal estrogen levels, which are required for normal embryonic heart rate. Our results demonstrate that estradiol plays a previously unappreciated role in the acute modulation of heart rate during zebrafish embryonic development and suggest that GPER regulates embryonic heart rate by altering maternal estrogen levels and embryonic T3 levels. labels: #Animals#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Embryonic Development#Estradiol#Estrogens#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Heart Rate#Mutation#Pituitary Gland#Receptors, Estrogen#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Signal Transduction#Triiodothyronine#Zebrafish#Zebrafish Proteins'
b'INTRODUCTION: The prognostic value of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations and the correlation between EGFR mutations and the new International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer/American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society (IASLC/ATS/ERS) histological classification remain controversial. The current study aimed to investigate the pure prognostic role of EGFR mutations in treatment-na\xc3\xafve patients with resected stage I lung adenocarcinoma.METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 373 patients with stage I pulmonary non-small-cell lung cancer who underwent complete surgical resection between January 2010 and May 2014. The tumors were classified according to IASLC/ATS/ERS criteria. EGFR mutation status was determined by established methods.RESULTS: A total of 120 patients were included for analysis; 87 had tumors with EGFR mutations and 33 had wild-type tumors. More low- and intermediate-grade tumors had EGFR mutations, and nearly half of the high-grade tumors were wild-type (75.7% versus 46.2%, p = 0.041). Patients with low-grade tumors had significantly greater median disease-free survival (DFS) (76.8 versus 13 months, p<0.0001) and better overall survival (OS) (median OS not reached, p = 0.0003) than those with intermediate- and high-grade tumors. Tumor recurrence was 41.4% and 30.3% in mutant and wild-type patients. The 5-years survival rate was 54% and 71.2%. Multivariate analysis revealed that the new histological classification and the pathologic stage were independent predictors of both DFS and OS. EGFR mutation status had no prognostic implications.CONCLUSION: Low grade tumors according to IASLC/ATS/ERS histological classification and the pathologic stage IA tumors of resected stage I lung adenocarcinomas independently predict better DFS and OS. EGFR mutations were frequently seen in histologically low- and intermediate-grade tumors but not a prognostic factor. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aged#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Prognosis#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor'
b'Autophagy is a physiological process for the recycling and degradation of cellular materials. Forming the autophagosome from the phagophore, a cup-shaped double-membrane vesicle, is a critical step in autophagy. The origin of the cup shape of the phagophore is poorly understood. In yeast, fusion of a small number of Atg9-containing vesicles is considered a key step in autophagosome biogenesis, aided by Atg1 complexes (ULK1 in mammals) localized at the preautophagosomal structure (PAS). In particular, the S-shaped Atg17-Atg31-Atg29 subcomplex of Atg1 is critical for phagophore nucleation at the PAS. To study this process, we simulated membrane remodeling processes in the presence and absence of membrane associated Atg17. We show that at least three vesicles need to fuse to induce the phagophore shape, consistent with experimental observations. However, fusion alone is not sufficient. Interactions with 34-nm long, S-shaped Atg17 complexes are required to overcome a substantial kinetic barrier in the transition to the cup-shaped phagophore. Our finding rationalizes the recruitment of Atg17 complexes to the yeast PAS, and their unusual shape. In control simulations without Atg17, with weakly binding Atg17, or with straight instead of S-shaped Atg17, the membrane shape transition did not occur. We confirm the critical role of Atg17-membrane interactions experimentally by showing that mutations of putative membrane interaction sites result in reduction or loss of autophagic activity in yeast. Fusion of a small number of vesicles followed by Atg17-guided membrane shape-remodeling thus emerges as a viable route to phagophore formation. labels: #Autophagosomes#Autophagy#Autophagy-Related Proteins#Binding Sites#Cell Membrane#Computer Simulation#Membrane Fluidity#Membrane Fusion#Models, Chemical#Models, Molecular#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'In mammals, protein arginine methyltransferase 5, PRMT5, is the main type II enzyme responsible for the majority of symmetric dimethylarginine formation in polypeptides. Recent study reported that PRMT5 restricts Hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication through epigenetic repression of HBV DNA transcription and interference with encapsidation of pregenomic RNA. Here we demonstrate that PRMT5 interacts with the HBV core (HBc) protein and dimethylates arginine residues within the arginine-rich domain (ARD) of the carboxyl-terminus. ARD consists of four arginine rich subdomains, ARDI, ARDII, ARDIII and ARDIV. Mutation analysis of ARDs revealed that arginine methylation of HBc required the wild-type status of both ARDI and ARDII. Mass spectrometry analysis of HBc identified multiple potential ubiquitination, methylation and phosphorylation sites, out of which lysine K7 and arginines R150 (within ARDI) and R156 (outside ARDs) were shown to be modified by ubiquitination and methylation, respectively. The HBc symmetric dimethylation appeared to be linked to serine phosphorylation and nuclear import of HBc protein. Conversely, the monomethylated HBc retained in the cytoplasm. Thus, overexpression of PRMT5 led to increased nuclear accumulation of HBc, and vice versa, down-regulation of PRMT5 resulted in reduced levels of HBc in nuclei of transfected cells. In summary, we identified PRMT5 as a potent controller of HBc cell trafficking and function and described two novel types of HBc post-translational modifications (PTMs), arginine methylation and ubiquitination. labels: #Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Mass Spectrometry#Methylation#Phosphorylation#Protein-Arginine N-Methyltransferases#Subcellular Fractions#Ubiquitination#Virus Replication'
b"CNS-directed therapies for the treatment of leukemia can adversely affect the acquisition of new skills, such as reading/writing and math. Two years after the end of treatments, children show gross and fine motor skill delays that may persist even when patients are considered healed. The goal of the present study was to assess motor skills difficulties in pre-school children with leukemia one year after treatment. Particular attention has been paid to those patients who had undergone Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (HSCT) and to the relationship between motor delays and age bands. Participants were 60 children (median age of 5; inter quartile range: 3.07-5.76), including 31 females and 29 males, 91.7% of them were affected by acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and 8.3% by acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Five children had undergone HCST. Parents were interviewed by Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales (VABS) on children's motor skills and filled in the Italian Temperament Questionnaire (QUIT). VABS's total scores were converted into equivalent mental age scores (EMA). A score difference of at least three months between current age and equivalent mental age was considered a developmental delay. Non-parametric analyses were run to understand if HSCT treatment and a specific age band influence children's motor skills. Significant delays were found in global motor skills (56.7%) as well as in fine and gross motor domains. Mann Whitney U tests showed that children with HSCT were reported to have lower gross motor mean ranks (U = 62; p = 0.004; Mean rank = 15.40) than peers without HSCT (Mean rank = 31.87) and lower mean rank values on motor temperament scale (U = 9; p = 0.003; HSCT Mean rank = 4.75 versus no HSCT Mean rank = 27.81). Kruskal Wallis' tests identified the high risk treatment showing that HSCT experience negatively impacted the motor skills and temperamental motor activity of pre-school children one year after the diagnosis of leukemia. labels: #Child, Preschool#Female#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Male#Motor Skills#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma#Risk Factors"
b'There are two biological systems available for removing phosphorus from waste water, conventional phosphorus removal (CPR) and denitrifying phosphorus removal (DPR) systems, and each is characterized by the type of sludge used in the process. In this study, we compared the characteristics associated with the efficiency of carbon utilization between CPR and DPR sludge using acetate as a carbon source. For DPR sludge, the heat emitted during the phosphorus release and phosphorus uptake processes were 45.79 kJ/mol e- and 84.09 kJ/mol e-, respectively. These values were about 2 fold higher than the corresponding values obtained for CPR sludge, suggesting that much of the energy obtained from the carbon source was emitted as heat. Further study revealed a smaller microbial mass within the DPR sludge compared to CPR sludge, as shown by a lower sludge yield coefficient (0.05 gVSS/g COD versus 0.36 gVSS/g COD), a result that was due to the lower energy capturing efficiency of DPR sludge according to bioenergetic analysis. Although the efficiency of anoxic phosphorus removal was only 39% the efficiency of aerobic phosphorus removal, the consumption of carbon by DPR sludge was reduced by 27.8% compared to CPR sludge through the coupling of denitrification with dephosphatation. labels: #Aerobiosis#Bioreactors#Calorimetry#Carbon#Denitrification#Energy Metabolism#Phosphorus#Sewage#Thermodynamics'
b'We evaluate the ability of cryopreserved rabbit amniotic membrane (AM) transplantation to reduce postoperative inflammation and the extent of fibrosis following experimental strabismus surgery. Ten white rabbits underwent bilateral superior rectus (SR) muscle resection. In the left eye, the resected SR muscle was wrapped with cryopreserved rabbit AM. The right eye underwent SR resection only and served as a control. The eyes were enucleated 4 weeks after strabismus surgery. The degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration, the extent of fibrosis, and profile of the relative expression of inflammatory mediators in the SR muscle were evaluated and compared between the two groups by histological analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). There were statistically meaningful differences in the degree of postoperative inflammatory infiltration and extent of fibrosis between the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM after SR resection and those underwent SR resection only. A significant decrease in the expression of inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-12a, IL-12b, IL-17f, and tumor necrosis factor- alpha (TNF-\xce\xb1)], and a markedly increased expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines (transforming growth factor-beta-1(TGF\xce\xb2-1) and IL-10) were observed in the eyes treated with cryopreserved rabbit AM. In this study, we demonstrate that cryopreserved rabbit AM is effective in reducing postoperative inflammation and extent of fibrosis in a rabbit model of strabismus surgery. Our results imply that cryopreserved AM allograft has anti-inflammatory and anti-scarring properties that can prevent postoperative adhesions following strabismus surgery. labels: #Amnion#Animals#Cryopreservation#Cytokines#Fibrosis#Inflammation#Inflammation Mediators#Rabbits#Strabismus'
b'OBJECTIVE: Available reports on critically ill adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) suggest improving short-term outcomes. However, there is marked heterogeneity in reported findings, with studies mostly based on single-centered data, limiting generalizability. We sought to examine population-level patterns of demand for critical care resources, and the characteristics, resource utilization, and outcomes of ICU-managed adults with CF.METHODS: We used the Texas Inpatient Public Use Data File to identify ICU admissions with CF aged \xe2\x89\xa518 years in Texas between 2004-2013. We examined ICU utilization at population level (using CF Foundation annual reports) and, among ICU admissions, socio-demographic characteristics, burden of comorbidities, organ failure, life-support utilization and hospital disposition. Linear regression and multilevel logistic regression were used to examine temporal trends and predictors of short-term mortality (hospital death and discharge to hospice), respectively.RESULTS: Of 9,579 hospitalizations of adults with CF, 1,249 (13%) were admitted to ICU. The incidence of ICU admission among adults with CF in Texas increased between 2004-2005 and 2012-2013 from 16.7 to 19.2 per 100 person-years (p = 0.0181), with ICU admissions aged \xe2\x89\xa530 years accounting for 80.3% of the change. Among ICU admissions the following changes were noted between 2004-2005 and 2012-2013: any organ failure 30.2% vs. 56.3% (p = 0.0004), mechanical ventilation 11.5% vs. 19.2% (p = 0.0216), and hemodialysis 1.0% vs. 8.1% (p = 0.0007). Short-term mortality for the whole cohort and for those with mechanical ventilation was 11.4% and 41.8%, respectively, with corresponding home discharge among survivors 84% and 62.1%, respectively. Key predictors (adjusted odds ratios [aOR (95% CI)]) of short-term mortality included age \xe2\x89\xa545 years (2.051 [1.231-3.415]), female gender (1.907 [1.237-2.941]), and mechanical ventilation (7.982 [5.001-12.739]).CONCLUSIONS: Adults with CF had high and rising population-level burden of critical illness. Although ICU admissions were increasingly older and sicker, the majority survived hospitalization, with most discharged home, supporting short-term benefits of critical care in the present cohort. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Critical Illness#Cystic Fibrosis#Female#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Young Adult'
b'Clubroot caused by Plasmodiophora brassicae, is a severe disease of cruciferous crops that causes large hypertrophic galls in the roots. The plant microbiome is important for growth promotion and disease suppression. In this study, using 16S rRNA and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing techniques, we compared the endosphere microbiome of symptomatic and asymptomatic B. napus roots infected with P. brassicae collected from the same natural clubroot field. The results showed that the microbial population and its relative abundance in the asymptomatic roots was far higher than that in the symptomatic roots, and that many microorganisms in asymptomatic roots have biological control and plant growth promotion functions that may be related to clubroot symptoms. These results suggest the importance of the endosphere microbiome in clubroot disease and provide potential bio-control resources for its prevention. labels: #Brassica napus#Cercozoa#Cluster Analysis#Microbiota#Plant Roots#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'Drosophila Wingless (Wg) is a morphogen that determines cell fate during development. Previous studies have shown that endocytic pathways regulate Wg trafficking and signaling. Here, we showed that loss of vamp7, a gene required for vesicle fusion, dramatically increased Wg levels and decreased Wg signaling. Interestingly, we found that levels of Dally-like (Dlp), a glypican that can interact with Wg to suppress Wg signaling at the dorsoventral boundary of the Drosophila wing, were also increased in vamp7 mutant cells. Moreover, Wg puncta in Rab4-dependent recycling endosomes were Dlp positive. We hypothesize that VAMP7 is required for Wg intracellular trafficking and the accumulation of Wg in Rab4-dependent recycling endosomes might affect Wg signaling. labels: #Animals#Biological Transport#Drosophila#Drosophila Proteins#R-SNARE Proteins#Signal Transduction#Wnt1 Protein'
b"BACKGROUND: People with stroke have a low peak aerobic capacity and experience increased effort during performance of daily activities. The purpose of this study was to examine test-retest reliability of a portable ergospirometry system in people with stroke during performance of functional activities in a field-test. Secondary aims were to examine the proportion of oxygen consumed during the field-test in relation to the peak-test and to analyse the correlation between the oxygen uptake during the field-test and peak-test in order to support the validity of the field-test.METHODS: With simultaneous measurement of oxygen consumption, participants performed a standardized field-test consisting of five activities; walking over ground, stair walking, stepping over obstacles, walking slalom between cones and from a standing position lifting objects from one height to another. All activities were performed in self-selected speed. Prior to the field-test, a peak aerobic capacity test was performed. The field-test was repeated minimum 2 and maximum 14 days between the tests. ICC2,1 and Bland Altman tests (Limits of Agreement, LoA) were used to analyse test-retest reliability.RESULTS: In total 31 participants (39% women, mean (SD) age 54.5 (12.7) years and 21.1 (14.3) months' post-stroke) were included. The ICC2,1 was \xe2\x89\xa5 0.80 for absolute V\xcc\x87O2, relative V\xcc\x87O2, minute ventilation, CO2, respiratory exchange ratio, heart rate and Borgs rating of perceived exertion. ICC2,1 for total time to complete the field-test was 0.99. Mean difference in steady state V\xcc\x87O2 during Test 1 and Test 2 was -0.40 (2.12) The LoAs were -3.75 and 4.51. Participants spent 60.7% of their V\xcc\x87O2peak performing functional activities. Correlation between field-test and peak-test was 0.689, p = 0.001 for absolute and 0.733, p = 0.001 for relative V\xcc\x87O2.CONCLUSIONS: This study presents first evidence on reliability of oxygen uptake during performance of functional activities after stroke, showing very good test-retest reliability. The secondary analysis showed that the amount of energy spent during the field-test relative to the peak-test was high and the correlation between the two test was good, supporting the validity of this method. labels: #Adult#Cognition#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Oxygen#Oxygen Consumption#Postural Balance#Spirometry#Stroke"
b'The giant mud crab Scylla serrata provides an important source of income and food to coastal communities in East Africa. However, increasing demand and exploitation due to the growing coastal population, export trade, and tourism industry are threatening the sustainability of the wild stock of this species. Because effective management requires a clear understanding of the connectivity among populations, this study was conducted to assess the genetic diversity and connectivity in the East African mangrove crab S. serrata. A section of 535 base pairs of the cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) gene and eight microsatellite loci were analysed from 230 tissue samples of giant mud crabs collected from Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Madagascar, and South Africa. Microsatellite genetic diversity (He) ranged between 0.56 and 0.6. The COI sequences showed 57 different haplotypes associated with low nucleotide diversity (current nucleotide diversity = 0.29%). In addition, the current nucleotide diversity was lower than the historical nucleotide diversity, indicating overexploitation or historical bottlenecks in the recent history of the studied population. Considering that the coastal population is growing rapidly, East African countries should promote sustainable fishing practices and sustainable use of mangrove resources to protect mud crabs and other marine fauna from the increasing pressure of exploitation. While microsatellite loci did not show significant genetic differentiation (p>0.05), COI sequences revealed significant genetic divergence between sites on the East coast of Madagascar (ECM) and sites on the West coast of Madagascar, mainland East Africa, as well as the Seychelles. Since East African countries agreed to achieve the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) target to protect over 10% of their marine areas by 2020, the observed pattern of connectivity and the measured genetic diversity can serve to provide useful information for designing networks of marine protected areas. labels: #Africa, Eastern#Animals#Conservation of Natural Resources#Crustacea#Fisheries#Genetic Variation#Microsatellite Repeats#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a highly debilitating disease of unknown aetiology. Abnormalities in bioenergetic function have been cited as one possible cause for CFS. Preliminary studies were performed to investigate cellular bioenergetic abnormalities in CFS patients. A series of assays were conducted using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from CFS patients and healthy controls. These experiments investigated cellular patterns in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and glycolysis. Results showed consistently lower measures of OXPHOS parameters in PBMCs taken from CFS patients compared with healthy controls. Seven key parameters of OXPHOS were calculated: basal respiration, ATP production, proton leak, maximal respiration, reserve capacity, non-mitochondrial respiration, and coupling efficiency. While many of the parameters differed between the CFS and control cohorts, maximal respiration was determined to be the key parameter in mitochondrial function to differ between CFS and control PBMCs due to the consistency of its impairment in CFS patients found throughout the study (p\xe2\x89\xa40.003). The lower maximal respiration in CFS PBMCs suggests that when the cells experience physiological stress they are less able to elevate their respiration rate to compensate for the increase in stress and are unable to fulfil cellular energy demands. The metabolic differences discovered highlight the inability of CFS patient PBMCs to fulfil cellular energetic demands both under basal conditions and when mitochondria are stressed during periods of high metabolic demand. labels: #Adult#Energy Metabolism#Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic#Female#Glucose#Glycolysis#Humans#Leukocytes, Mononuclear#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidative Phosphorylation'
b'Disinfectants play an important role in controlling microbial contamination on hard surfaces in hospitals. The effectiveness of disinfectants in real life can be predicted by laboratory tests that measure killing of microbes on carriers. The modified Quantitative Disk Carrier Test (QCT-2) is a standard laboratory method that employs American Iron and Steel Institute (AISI) Type 430 stainless steel carriers to measure hospital disinfectant efficacy against Clostridium difficile spores. The formation of a rust-colored precipitate was observed on Type 430 carriers when testing a peracetic acid (PAA)-based disinfectant with the QCT-2 method. It was hypothesized that the precipitate was indicative of corrosion of the Type 430 carrier, and that corrosion could impact efficacy results. The objective of this study was to compare the suitability of AISI Type 430 to Type 304 stainless steel carriers for evaluating PAA-based disinfectants using the QCT-2 method. Type 304 is more corrosion-resistant than Type 430, is ubiquitous in healthcare environments, and is used in other standard methods. Suitability of the carriers was evaluated by comparing their impacts on efficacy results and PAA degradation rates. In efficacy tests with 1376 ppm PAA, reductions of C. difficile spores after 5, 7 and 10 minutes on Type 430 carriers were at least about 1.5 log10 lower than reductions on Type 304 carriers. In conditions simulating a QCT-2 test, PAA concentration with Type 430 carriers was reduced by approximately 80% in 10 minutes, whereas PAA concentration in the presence of Type 304 carriers remained stable. Elemental analyses of residues on each carrier type after efficacy testing were indicative of corrosion on the Type 430 carrier. Use of Type 430 stainless steel carriers for measuring the efficacy of PAA-based disinfectants should be avoided as it can lead to an underestimation of real life sporicidal efficacy. Type 304 stainless steel carriers are recommended as a suitable alternative. labels: #Clostridium difficile#Disinfectants#Peracetic Acid#Spores, Bacterial#Stainless Steel#Surface Properties'
b'Baseline information on demographics and practices on semi-intensive free-range egg farms with an outdoor stocking density of \xe2\x89\xa41500 hens/hectare in Australia is presented. Free-range egg production is changing the structure of the egg industry in Australia and a broad variety and tiers of free-range systems have emerged due to lack of concrete legislative standards on outdoor stocking densities in the past. Information was extracted from a pre-existing online free-range poultry survey dataset, consisting of a total of 79 questions related to nutrition, pasture management, welfare and health, animal housing, environmental impact and economics. Forty-one free-range egg farms, with an outdoor stocking density of \xe2\x89\xa41500 hens/hectare, were identified in the dataset from all major Australian states. Two types of semi-intensive free-range housing systems were documented: mobile (modified caravan/trailer) housing (56%), and fixed sheds (44%). Seventy-two percent of respondents reported>75% of the hens in the flock used the outdoor range. All respondents reported ingestion of range components by hens in the form of vegetation, insects, stones and grit. Up to 10% mortality was reported by 40% respondents with predation (34%), cannibalism (29%), heat stress (24%) and grass impaction (19.5%) as major causes. Biosecurity on farms was sub-optimal with 8 of the 10 actions implemented by<50% respondents. Customer demand, consumer sentiment and welfare were the major factors for farmers moving into free-range egg production. This study resulted in identification of current practices and key challenges on semi-intensive free-range egg farms. Applied research and communication of results to farmers is highly recommended to ensure optimum health and welfare of free-range laying hens and sustained egg production. labels: #Animal Feed#Animal Welfare#Animals#Australia#Chickens#Housing, Animal'
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to investigated the effect and mechanism of zinc-finger protein 418 (ZNF418) on cardiac hypertrophy caused by aortic banding (AB), phenylephrine (PE) or angiotensin II (Ang II) in vivo and in vitro.METHODS: The expression of ZNF418 in hearts of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice, as well as in Ang II- or PE-induced hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes was detected by western blotting. Then, the expression of ZNF418 was up-regulated or down-regulated in AB-induced cardiac hypertrophy mice and Ang II -induced hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes. The hypertrophic responses and fibrosis were evaluated by echocardiography and histological analysis. The mRNA levels of hypertrophy markers and fibrotic markers were detected by RT-qPCR. Furthermore, the phosphorylation and total levels of c-Jun were measured by western blotting.RESULTS: ZNF418 was markedly down-regulated in hearts of cardiac hypertrophy and hypertrophic primary cardiomyocytes. Down-regulated ZNF418 exacerbated the myocyte size and fibrosis, moreover increased the mRNA levels of ANP, BNP, \xce\xb2-MHC, MCIP1.4, collagen 1a, collagen III, MMP-2 and fibronection in hearts of AB-treated ZNF418 knockout mice or Ang II-treated cardiomyocytes with AdshZNF418. Conversely, these hypertrophic responses were reduced in the ZNF418 transgenic (TG) mice treated by AB and the AdZNF418-transfected primary cardiomyocytes treated by Ang II. Additionally, the deficiency of ZNF418 enhanced the phosphorylation level of c-jun, and overexpression of ZNF418 suppressed the phosphorylation level of c-jun in vivo and in vitro.CONCLUSION: ZNF418 maybe attenuate hypertrophic responses by inhibiting the activity of c-jun/AP-1. labels: #Angiotensin II#Animals#Cardiomegaly#Cells, Cultured#Down-Regulation#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Repressor Proteins#Transcription Factor AP-1'
b'Silicon (Si) is a macroelement in plants. The biological effects and mitigation mechanisms of silicon under environmental stress have become hot topics. The main objectives of this study were to elucidate the roles of Si in alleviating the effects on the phenotype, micromorphology and anatomy of the leaves of rice seedlings under acid rain stress. The results indicated that the combined or single effects of Si and simulated acid rain (SAR) stress on rice roots depended on the concentration of Si and the intensity of the SAR stress. The combined or single effects of the moderate concentration of Si (2.0 mM) and light SAR (pH 4.0) enhanced the growth of the rice leaves and the development of the mesophyll cells, and the combined effects were stronger than those of the single treatments. The high concentration of Si (4.0 mM) and severe SAR (pH 3.0 or 2.0) exerted deleterious effects. The incorporation of Si (2.0 or 4.0 mM) into SAR at pH values of 3.0 or 2.0 promoted rice leaf growth, decreased necrosis spots, maintained the structure and function of the mesophyll cells, increased the epicuticular wax content and wart-like protuberance (WP) density, and improved the stomatal characteristics of the leaves of rice seedlings more than the SAR only treatments. The alleviatory effects observed with a moderate concentration of Si (2.0 mM) were better than the effects obtained with the high concentration of Si (4.0 mM). The alleviatory effects were due to the enhancement of the mechanical barriers in the leaf epidermis. labels: #Acid Rain#Mesophyll Cells#Oryza#Plant Leaves#Silicon'
b'BACKGROUND: The antiretroviral drug nevirapine and the antimalarial artemisinin-based combination therapy artemether-lumefantrine are commonly co-administered to treat malaria in the context of HIV. Nevirapine is a known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4, which metabolizes artemether and lumefantrine. To address the concern that the antiretroviral nevirapine impacts the antimalarial artemether-lumefantrine pharmacokinetics, a prospective non-randomized controlled study in children presenting with uncomplicated malaria and HIV in sub-Saharan Africa was carried out.METHODS: Participants received artemether-lumefantrine (20/120 mg weight-based BID) for 3 days during nevirapine-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) co-administration (158-266 mg/m2 QD). HIV positive participants who were not yet on ART drugs were also enrolled as the control group. The target enrollment was children aged 3-12 years (n = 24 in each group). Intensive pharmacokinetics after the last artemether-lumefantrine dose was assessed for artemether, its active metabolite dihydroartemisinin, and lumefantrine. Pharmacokinetic parameters (area under the plasma concentration vs. time curve (AUC), maximum concentration and day 7 lumefantrine concentrations) were estimated using non-compartmental methods and compared to controls.RESULTS: Nineteen children (16 on nevirapine and three not on ART) enrolled. Fifteen of the 16 (aged 4 to 11 years) on nevirapine-based ART were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis. Due to evolving WHO HIV treatment guidelines, insufficient children were enrolled in the control group (n = 3), so the pharmacokinetic data were compared to a historical control group of 20 HIV-uninfected children 5-12 years of age who also presented with malaria and underwent identical study procedures. Decreases of pharmacokinetic exposure [as estimated by AUC (AUC0-8hr)] were marginally significant for artemether (by -46%, p = 0.08) and dihydroartemisinin (-22%, p = 0.06) in the children on nevirapine-based ART, compared to when artemether-lumefantrine was administered alone. Similarly, peak concentration was decreased by 50% (p = 0.07) for artemether and 36% (p = 0.01) for dihydroartemisinin. In contrast, exposure to lumefantrine increased significantly in the context of nevirapine [AUC0-120hr:123% (p<0.001); Cday7:116% (p<0.001), Cmax: 95% (p<0.001)].CONCLUSIONS: Nevirapine-based ART increases the exposure to lumefantrine in pre-pubescent children with a trend toward diminished artemether and dihydroartemisinin exposure. These findings contrast with other studies indicating NVP reduces or results in no change in exposure of antimalarial drugs, and may be specific to this age group (4-12 years). Considering the excellent safety profile of artemether-lumefantrine, the increase in lumefantrine is not of concern. However, the reduction in artemisinin exposure may warrant further study, and suggests that dosage adjustment of artemether-lumefantrine with nevirapine-based ART in children is likely warranted. labels: #Africa South of the Sahara#Antimalarials#Artemisinins#Child#Child, Preschool#Ethanolamines#Female#Fluorenes#Humans#Male#Nevirapine'
b'The model of population growth is revised in this paper. A new model is proposed based on the concept of fractional differentiation that uses the generalized Mittag-Leffler function as kernel of differentiation. The new model includes the choice of sexuality. The existence of unique solution is investigated and numerical solution is provided. labels: #Animals#Female#Humans#Male#Models, Theoretical#Population Growth#Sexuality'
b'Lipid lowering properties of glucagon have been reported. Blocking glucagon signaling leads to rise in plasma LDL levels. Here, we demonstrate the lipid lowering effects of acute dosing with Glp1r/Gcgr dual agonist (DualAG). All the experiments were performed in 25 week-old male diet-induced (60% kCal fat) obese mice. After 2 hrs of fasting, mice were injected subcutaneously with vehicle, liraglutide (25nmol/kg) and DualAG (25nmol/kg). De novo cholesterol and palmitate synthesis was measured by deuterium incorporation method using D2O. 13C18-oleate infusion was used for measuring fatty acid esterification. Simultaneous activation of Glp1r and Gcgr resulted in decrease in plasma triglyceride and cholesterol levels. DualAG enhanced hepatic LDLr protein levels, along with causing decrease in content of plasma ApoB48 and ApoB100. VLDL secretion, de novo palmitate synthesis and fatty acid esterification decreased with acute DualAG treatment. On the other hand, ketone levels were elevated with DualAG treatment, indicating increased fatty acid oxidation. Lipid relevant changes were absent in liraglutide treated group. In an acute treatment, DualAG demonstrated significant impact on lipid homeostasis, specifically on hepatic uptake, VLDL secretion and de novo synthesis. These effects collectively reveal that lipid lowering abilities of DualAG are primarily through glucagon signaling and are liver centric. labels: #Animals#Cholesterol#Glucagon#Glucagon-Like Peptide Receptors#Lipid Metabolism#Lipogenesis#Liver#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Triglycerides'
b'The identification and study of antigen-specific CD4 T cells, both in peripheral blood and in tissues, is key for a broad range of immunological research, including vaccine responses and infectious diseases. Detection of these cells is hampered by both their rarity and their heterogeneity, in particular with regards to cytokine secretion profiles. These factors prevent the identification of the total pool of antigen-specific CD4 T cells by classical methods. We have developed assays for the highly sensitive detection of such cells by measuring the upregulation of surface activation induced markers (AIM). Here, we compare two such assays based on concurrent expression of CD69 plus CD40L (CD154) or expression of OX40 plus CD25, and we develop additional AIM assays based on OX40 plus PD-L1 or 4-1BB. We compare the relative sensitivity of these assays for detection of vaccine and natural infection-induced CD4 T cell responses and show that these assays identify distinct, but overlapping populations of antigen-specific CD4 T cells, a subpopulation of which can also be detected on the basis of cytokine synthesis. Bystander activation had minimal effect on AIM markers. However, some T regulatory cells upregulate CD25 upon antigen stimulation. We therefore validated AIM assays designed to exclude most T regulatory cells, for both human and non-human primate (NHP, Macaca mulatta) studies. Overall, through head-to-head comparisons and methodological improvements, we show that AIM assays represent a sensitive and valuable method for the detection of antigen-specific CD4 T cells. labels: #Animals#Antigens#Antigens, CD#Biomarkers#Bystander Effect#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cohort Studies#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Macaca mulatta'
b'Pigs have experienced long-term selections, resulting in dramatic phenotypic changes. Structural variants (SVs) are reported to exert extensive impacts on phenotypic changes. We built a high resolution and informative SV map based on high-depth sequencing data from 66 Chinese domestic and wild pigs. We inferred the SV formation mechanisms in the pig genome and used SVs as materials to perform a population-level analysis. We detected the selection signals on chromosome X for northern Chinese domestic pigs, as well as the differentiated loci across the whole genome. Analysis showed that these loci differ between southern and northern Chinese domestic pigs. Our results based on SVs provide new insights into genetic differences in Chinese pigs. labels: #Animals#China#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Selection, Genetic#Sus scrofa#Swine#X Chromosome'
b'AIM: Metastasis of tumor cells occurs through lymphatic vessels, blood vessels and transcoelomic spreading. Growing evidence from in vivo and in vitro studies has indicated that tumor lymphangiogenesis facilitates metastasis. However, the regulation of lymphangiogenesis in colon cancer remains unclear. The aims of this study were to identify key miRNAs in colon cancer lymphangiogenesis and to investigate its target and mechanism.METHODS: miRNA microarray analysis was conducted to identify miRNAs in human lymphatic endothelial cells (HLECs) that were regulated by co-cultured human colon cancer cells. Gain- and loss-of-function studies were performed to determine the function of miR-27a, a top hint, on lymphangiogenesis and migration in HLECs. Furthermore, bioinformatics prediction and experimental validation were performed to identify miR-27a target genes in lymphangiogenesis.RESULTS: We found that expression of miR-27a in HLECs was induced by co-culturing with colon cancer cells. Over-expression of miR-27a in HLECs enhanced lymphatic tube formation and migration, whereas inhibition of miR-27a reduced lymphatic tube formation and migration. Luciferase reporter assays showed that miR-27a directly targeted SMAD4, a pivotal component of the TGF-\xce\xb2 pathway. In addition, gain-of-function and loss-of-function experiments showed that SMAD4 negatively regulated the length of lymphatic vessels formed by HLECs and migration.CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicated that colon cancer cell induced the expression of miR-27a in HLECs, which promoted lymphangiogenesis by targeting SMAD4. Our finding implicated miR-27a as a potential target for new anticancer therapies in colon cancer. labels: #Cells, Cultured#Coculture Techniques#Colonic Neoplasms#Humans#Lymphangiogenesis#Lymphatic Vessels#MicroRNAs#Signal Transduction#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b'Osteocytes are the most abundant cell in the bone, and have multiple functions including mechanosensing and regulation of bone remodeling activities. Since osteocytes are embedded in the bone matrix, their inaccessibility makes in vivo studies problematic. Therefore, a non-invasive technique with high spatial resolution is desired. The purpose of this study is to investigate the use of third harmonic generation (THG) microscopy as a noninvasive technique for high-resolution imaging of the lacunar-canalicular network (LCN) in live mice. By performing THG imaging in combination with two- and three-photon fluorescence microscopy, we show that THG signal is produced from the bone-interstitial fluid boundary of the lacuna, while the interstitial fluid-osteocyte cell boundary shows a weaker THG signal. Canaliculi are also readily visualized by THG imaging, with canaliculi oriented at small angles relative to the optical axis exhibiting stronger signal intensity compared to those oriented perpendicular to the optical axis (parallel to the image plane). By measuring forward- versus epi-detected THG signals in thinned versus thick bone samples ex vivo, we found that the epi-collected THG from the LCN of intact bone contains a superposition of backward-directed and backscattered forward-THG. As an example of a biological application, THG was used as a label-free imaging technique to study structural variations in the LCN of live mice deficient in both histone deacetylase 4 and 5 (HDAC4, HDAC5). Three-dimensional analyses were performed and revealed statistically significant differences between the HDAC4/5 double knockout and wild type mice in the number of osteocytes per volume and the number of canaliculi per lacunar surface area. These changes in osteocyte density and dendritic projections occurred without differences in lacunar size. This study demonstrates that THG microscopy imaging of the LCN in live mice enables quantitative analysis of osteocytes in animal models without the use of dyes or physical sectioning. labels: #Animals#Histone Deacetylases#Intravital Microscopy#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Osteocytes#Skull'
b"Parental investment in Arapaima gigas includes nest building and guarding, followed by a care provision when a cephalic fluid is released from the parents' head to the offspring. This fluid has presumably important functions for the offspring but so far its composition has not been characterised. In this study the proteome and peptidome of the cephalic secretion was studied in parental and non-parental fish using capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry (CE-MS) and GeLC-MS/MS analyses. Multiple comparisons revealed 28 peptides were significantly different between males and parental males (PC-males), 126 between females and parental females (PC-females), 51 between males and females and 9 between PC-males and PC-females. Identification revealed peptides were produced in the inner ear (pcdh15b), eyes (tetraspanin and ppp2r3a), central nervous system (otud4, ribeye a, tjp1b and syn1) among others. A total of 422 proteins were also identified and gene ontology analysis revealed 28 secreted extracellular proteins. From these, 2 hormones (prolactin and stanniocalcin) and 12 proteins associated to immunological processes (serotransferrin, \xce\xb1-1-antitrypsin homolog, apolipoprotein A-I, and others) were identified. This study provides novel biochemical data on the lateral line fluid which will enable future hypotheses-driven experiments to better understand the physiological roles of the lateral line in chemical communication. labels: #Animals#Behavior, Animal#Chromatography, Liquid#Electrophoresis, Capillary#Female#Fishes#Male#Peptides#Proteome#Tandem Mass Spectrometry"
b'BACKGROUND: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in Western countries. Both iron and lipid metabolism seem to be involved in its pathogenesis. We aimed to assess the relationship between levels of hepcidin, the master iron-regulatory protein, in plasma and the presence of NAFLD in morbidly obese (MO) patients, and to investigate the association between the hepatic expression of the main iron and lipid metabolism -related genes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to measure plasma hepcidin levels in 49 normal-weight control women, 23 MO women with normal liver (NL) histology and 46 MO women with NAFLD. The mRNA expression of hepcidin, the main iron metabolism-related genes, and the main lipid-metabolism genes was quantified by qRT-PCR in liver biopsies from members of the MO group undergoing bariatric surgery.RESULTS: Circulating hepcidin levels were significantly greater in MO than in normal-weight control women. However, there were no significant differences between MO women with NL and those with NAFLD. PCR analysis showed increased expression of hepcidin, FPN1, TfR1 and TfR2 in the liver of MO NAFLD women compared to those with NL. Moreover, a positive association of hepatic hepcidin mRNA expression and the iron metabolism-related genes was found with some key genes involved in the lipid metabolism.CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that circulating hepcidin levels are associated with obesity but not with the presence of NAFLD. However, the hepatic expression of hepcidin and the iron metabolism-related genes seem to play a role in regulating lipid metabolism pathways in liver, which has implications for NAFLD pathogenesis. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Hepcidins#Humans#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Obesity, Morbid'
b'Chloroplast (cp) genomes of Lilium amabile, L. callosum, L. lancifolium, and L. philadelphicum were fully sequenced. Using these four novel cp genome sequences and five other previously sequenced cp genomes, features of the cp genomes were characterized in detail among species in the genus Lilium and other related genera in the order Liliales. The lengths and nucleotide composition showed little variation. No structural variation was found among the cp genomes in Liliales. Gene contents were conserved among four newly sequenced cp genome in Lilium species, the only differences being in two pseudogenes. We identified 112 genes in 13 functional categories, 18 of which carried introns that were conserved among the species in Liliales. There were 16-21 SSR loci (>12 bp,>3 repeats) in the cp genomes in Lilium and the genomic locations of these loci were highly variable among the species. Average mutations were 15 SNPs per 1kb and 5 indels per 1kb, respectively, in the cp genomes of the newly sequenced four Lilium species. Phylogenetic classifications revealed some discrepancies between trees based on the cp genomes and previous classifications based on the morphology and geographic distributions. labels: #Chloroplasts#Genome, Plant#INDEL Mutation#Introns#Lilium#Phylogeny#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Species Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: The emerging chikungunya virus (CHIKV), is an arbovirus causing intense outbreaks in North America. The situation in Mexico is alarming, and CHIKV threatens to spread further throughout North America. Clinical and biological features of CHIKF outbreaks in Mexico have not been well described; thus, we conducted a cross sectional study of a CHIKV outbreak in Chiapas, Southern Mexico to further characterize these features.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We collected blood samples from patients suspected of having chikungunya fever (CHIKF) who presented to Clinical Hospital ISSSTE Dr. Roberto Nettel in Tapachula, Chiapas, Mexico. In addition to the clinical examination, real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) standardized for the Asian Chikungunya lineage and/or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for immunoglobulin M (IgM) were used to confirm CHIKV diagnosis. Of a total of 850 patients who presented with probably CHIKV at Hospital "Dr. Roberto Nettel", 112 probable CHIKF cases were enrolled in this study from November 2014- June 2015, of which 95 patients (84.8%) were CHIKV positive and 17 were negative (15.2%). Of these 95 CHIKV positive patients, 62 were positive by real-time reverse transcriptase PCR (+qRT-PCR); and 33 were seropositive to +IgM with a negative qRT-PCR. The most frequent symptoms reported were fever (100%), headache (82.3%), polyarthralgia (72.1%), and exanthem (82.3%). Biological abnormalities observed during CHIKV infection were lymphopenia (41.1%), leukopenia (51.6%), elevated transaminases (30.5%-46.3%) and high LDH (46.3%) and CRP (60.0%).CONCLUSION: Clinical and biological data obtained from this study is providing more useful information for benchmarking purposes with outbreaks from different parts of the world and would be helpful for better patient care and treatment. labels: #Chikungunya Fever#Cross-Sectional Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Humans#Mexico#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'The \xce\xbb-Red recombination system is a popular method for gene editing. However, its applications are limited due to restricted electroporation of DNA fragments. Here, we present an electroporation-free \xce\xbb-Red recombination method in which target DNA fragments are excised by I-CreI endonuclease in vivo from the landing pad plasmid. Subsequently, the I-SceI endonuclease-cutting chromosome and DNA double-strand break repair were required. Markerless deletion and genomic replacement were successfully accomplished by this novel approach. Eight nonessential regions of 2.4-104.4 kb in the Escherichia coli DH1 genome were deleted separately with selection efficiencies of 5.3-100%. Additionally, the recombination efficiencies were 2.5-45%, representing an order of magnitude improvement over the electroporation method. For example, for genomic replacement, lycopene expression flux (3.5 kb) was efficiently and precisely integrated into the chromosome, accompanied by replacement of nonessential regions separately into four differently oriented loci. The lycopene production level varied approximately by 5- and 10-fold, corresponding to the integrated position and expression direction, respectively, in the E. coli chromosome. labels: #Carotenoids#Chromosomes, Bacterial#Electroporation#Escherichia coli#Genome, Bacterial#Plasmids#Recombination, Genetic#Sequence Deletion'
b"Corbicula fluminea is an aggressive invasive species of bivalve that arrived into the R\xc3\xado de la Plata River between the late 60's and early 70's, and dispersed widely throughout the Neotropical region, evidencing a great adaptive flexibility to different environmental conditions. This species is a functional hermaphrodite with larval incubation inside the inner demibranch. Despite its widespread distribution, there are no previous studies of complete gonadal histology and reproductive cycle for this species in the Neotropical region. In this study, the reproductive dynamics of C. fluminea in a temperate region, the Santa Catalina Pampean stream, Argentina, is described. Samples of 20-30 individuals were collected monthly from April 2003-April 2005 and processed using traditional histological techniques. During the two years of this study, seven spawning events were recognized. Three major spawns occurred in spring and summer, and other four minor ones during summer and autumn. Events of oocyte recovery were observed after spawning. A high number of incubating individuals was detected. The results stressed the difficulty of identifying a particular pattern of gamete release and of spawning behaviour in this invasive species, especially when inhabiting an unstable environment. labels: #Animals#Argentina#Corbicula#Environmental Monitoring#Gonads#Introduced Species#Rivers#Seasons"
b"Response inhibition is frequently measured by the Go/no-go and Stop-signal tasks. These two are often used indiscriminately under the assumption that both measure similar inhibitory control abilities. However, accumulating evidence show differences in both tasks' modulations, raising the question of whether they tap into equivalent cognitive mechanisms. In the current study, a comparison of the performance in both tasks took place under the influence of negative stimuli, following the assumption that ''controlled inhibition'', as measured by Stop-signal, but not ''automatic inhibition'', as measured by Go/no-go, will be affected. 54 young adults performed a task in which negative pictures, neutral pictures or no-pictures preceded go trials, no-go trials, and stop-trials. While the exposure to negative pictures impaired performance on go trials and improved the inhibitory capacity in Stop-signal task, the inhibitory performance in Go/no-go task was generally unaffected. The results support the conceptualization of different mechanisms operated by both tasks, thus emphasizing the necessity to thoroughly fathom both inhibitory processes and identify their corresponding cognitive measures. Implications regarding the usage of cognitive tasks for strengthening inhibitory capacity among individuals struggling with inhibitory impairments are discussed. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Inhibition (Psychology)#Male#Reaction Time#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult"
b'Leptospirosis is a globally emerging zoonotic disease, associated with various climatic, biotic and abiotic factors. Mapping and quantifying geographical variations in the occurrence of leptospirosis and the surrounding environment offer innovative methods to study disease transmission and to identify associations between the disease and the environment. This study aims to investigate geographic variations in leptospirosis incidence in the Netherlands and to identify associations with environmental factors driving the emergence of the disease. Individual case data derived over the period 1995-2012 in the Netherlands were geocoded and aggregated by municipality. Environmental covariate data were extracted for each municipality and stored in a spatial database. Spatial clusters were identified using kernel density estimations and quantified using local autocorrelation statistics. Associations between the incidence of leptospirosis and the local environment were determined using Simultaneous Autoregressive Models (SAR) explicitly modelling spatial dependence of the model residuals. Leptospirosis incidence rates were found to be spatially clustered, showing a marked spatial pattern. Fitting a spatial autoregressive model significantly improved model fit and revealed significant association between leptospirosis and the coverage of arable land, built up area, grassland and sabulous clay soils. The incidence of leptospirosis in the Netherlands could effectively be modelled using a combination of soil and land-use variables accounting for spatial dependence of incidence rates per municipality. The resulting spatially explicit risk predictions provide an important source of information which will benefit clinical awareness on potential leptospirosis infections in endemic areas. labels: #Cluster Analysis#Environment#Geography#Humans#Incidence#Leptospirosis#Netherlands#Risk Factors'
b'Energy and time expenditures are determinants of bird migration strategies. Soaring birds have developed migration strategies to minimize these costs, optimizing the use of all the available resources to facilitate their displacement. We analysed the effects of different wind factors (tailwind, turbulence, vertical updrafts) on the migratory flying strategies adopted by 24 satellite-tracked American white pelicans (Pelecanus erythrorhynchos) throughout spring and autumn in North America. We hypothesize that different wind conditions encountered along migration routes between spring and autumn induce pelicans to adopt different flying strategies and use of these wind resources. Using quantile regression and fine-scale atmospheric data, we found that the pelicans optimized the use of available wind resources, flying faster and more direct routes in spring than in autumn. They actively selected tailwinds in both spring and autumn displacements but relied on available updrafts predominantly in their spring migration, when they needed to arrive at the breeding regions. These effects varied depending on the flying speed of the pelicans. We found significant directional correlations between the pelican migration flights and wind direction. In light of our results, we suggest plasticity of migratory flight strategies by pelicans is likely to enhance their ability to cope with the effects of ongoing climate change and the alteration of wind regimes. Here, we also demonstrate the usefulness and applicability of quantile regression techniques to investigate complex ecological processes such as variable effects of atmospheric conditions on soaring migration. labels: #Animal Migration#Animals#Birds#Flight, Animal#North America#Seasons#Wind'
b'The utility of HepG2 cells to assess drug metabolism and toxicity induced by chemical compounds is hampered by their low cytochrome P450 (CYP) activities. To overcome this limitation, we established HepG2 cell lines expressing major CYP enzymes involved in drug metabolism (CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) and CYP oxidoreductase (POR) using the mammalian-derived artificial chromosome vector. Transchromosomic HepG2 (TC-HepG2) cells expressing four CYPs and POR were used to determine time- and concentration-dependent inhibition and toxicity of several compounds by luminescence detection of CYP-specific substrates and cell viability assays. Gene expression levels of all four CYPs and POR, as well as the CYP activities, were higher in TC-HepG2 clones than in parental HepG2 cells. Additionally, the activity levels of all CYPs were reduced in a concentration-dependent manner by specific CYP inhibitors. Furthermore, preincubation of TC-HepG2 cells with CYP inhibitors known as time-dependent inhibitors (TDI) prior to the addition of CYP-specific substrates determined that CYP inhibition was enhanced in the TDI group than in the non-TDI group. Finally, the IC50 of bioactivable compound aflatoxin B1 was lower in TC-HepG2 cells than in HepG2 cells. In conclusion, the TC-HepG2 cells characterized in the current study are a highly versatile model to evaluate drug-drug interactions and hepatotoxicity in initial screening of candidate drug compounds, which require a high degree of processing capacity and reliability. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Chromosomes, Artificial, Mammalian#Cytochrome P-450 Enzyme System#Enzyme Inhibitors#Humans#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Models, Biological'
b'Scleroderma has clinical characteristics including skin and other tissue fibrosis, but there is an unmet need for anti-fibrotic therapy. Halofuginone (HF) is a well-known anti-fibrosis agent in preclinical and clinical studies which exerts its effect via inhibition of TGF-\xce\xb2/Smad3 signaling pathway. Recently, prolyl-tRNA synthetase (PRS) was elucidated as a target protein for HF that binds to the proline binding site of the catalytic domain of PRS. Here, we characterized a new class of PRS inhibitor (T-3833261) that is carefully designed in a way that binds to the ATP site of the catalytic domain and does not disrupt binding of proline. The anti-fibrotic activity and the mechanism of action for T-3833261 on TGF-\xce\xb2-induced fibrotic assay were compared with those of HF in primary human skin fibroblast. We evaluated in vivo effect of topical application of T-3833261 and HF on TGF-\xce\xb2-induced fibrotic genes expression in mice. We found that T-3833261 suppressed TGF-\xce\xb2-induced \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA) and type I collagen \xce\xb11 (COL1A1) expression through the Smad3 axis in a similar fashion to HF. In vivo topical application of T-3833261 reduced the increase of fibrotic genes expression such as \xce\xb1-Sma, Col1a1 and Col1a2 by TGF-\xce\xb2 intradermal injection to the ear of a mouse. We revealed that T-3833261 is more effective than HF under the conditions of high proline concentration, as reported in fibrotic tissues. These results suggest the potential of ATP competitive PRS inhibitors for the treatment of fibrotic diseases such as scleroderma. labels: #Amino Acyl-tRNA Synthetases#Animals#Cells, Cultured#Drug Discovery#Enzyme Inhibitors#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C3H#Scleroderma, Systemic'
b'BACKGROUND: The evidence for association between Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection and risk of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is inconsistent in the literature. Therefore, this meta-analysis was conducted to clarify this association.METHODS: A literature search was conducted in electronic databases for English- and Chinese-language publications until March 31, 2017 to include eligible case-control studies. The pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were estimated to determine the association between EBV infection and OSCC risk using a fixed- or random-effects model based on heterogeneity. Publication bias was assessed using funnel plot analysis.RESULTS: A total of 13 case-control studies with 686 OSCC patients and 433 controls were included based on predetermined inclusion and exclusion criteria. The pooled OR with 95% CI between EBV infection and OSCC risk was 5.03 (1.80-14.01) with significant heterogeneity observed (I2 = 87%). The subgroup analysis indicates that the year of publication, study location, economic level, sample size, tissue type, detection method and marker, control type, and language might explain potential sources of heterogeneity. Publication bias was not observed, and sensitivity analysis showed stable results.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current meta-analysis suggest that EBV infection is statistically associated with increased risk of OSCC. However, additional high-quality studies with larger sample sizes are needed to further confirm the relationship between EBV and OSCC. labels: #Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Case-Control Studies#Epstein-Barr Virus Infections#Humans#Mouth Neoplasms'
b'During interphase, the nuclear envelope (NE) serves as a selective barrier between cytosol and nucleoplasm. When vertebrate cells enter mitosis, the NE is dismantled in the process of nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD). Disassembly of nuclear pore complexes (NPCs) is a key aspect of NEBD, required for NE permeabilization and formation of a cytoplasmic mitotic spindle. Here, we show that both CDK1 and polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) support mitotic NPC disintegration by hyperphosphorylation of Nup98, the gatekeeper nucleoporin, and Nup53, a central nucleoporin linking the inner NPC scaffold to the pore membrane. Multisite phosphorylation of Nup53 critically contributes to its liberation from its partner nucleoporins, including the pore membrane protein NDC1. Initial steps of NPC disassembly in semi-permeabilized cells can be reconstituted by a cocktail of mitotic kinases including cyclinB-CDK1, NIMA, and PLK1, suggesting that the unzipping of nucleoporin interactions by protein phosphorylation is an important principle underlying mitotic NE permeabilization. labels: #CDC2 Protein Kinase#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleus#Cyclin-Dependent Kinases#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mitosis#Nuclear Envelope#Nuclear Pore#Nuclear Pore Complex Proteins#Phosphorylation#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins'
b'In animal cells, nuclear envelope breakdown (NEBD) is required for proper chromosome segregation. Whereas mitotic kinases have been implicated in NEBD, how they coordinate their activity to trigger this event is unclear. Here, we show that both in human cells and Caenorhabditis elegans, the Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK-1) is recruited to the nuclear pore complexes, just prior to NEBD, through its Polo-box domain (PBD). We provide evidence that PLK-1 localization to the nuclear envelope (NE) is required for efficient NEBD. We identify the central channel\xc2\xa0nucleoporins NPP-1/Nup58, NPP-4/Nup54, and NPP-11/Nup62 as the critical factors anchoring PLK-1 to the NE in C.\xc2\xa0elegans. In particular, NPP-1, NPP-4, and NPP-11 primed at multiple Polo-docking sites by Cdk1 and PLK-1 itself physically interact with the PLK-1 PBD. We conclude that nucleoporins play an unanticipated regulatory role in NEBD, by recruiting PLK-1 to the NE thereby facilitating phosphorylation of critical downstream targets. labels: #Animals#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleus#Embryo, Nonmammalian#HeLa Cells#Humans#Mitosis#Nuclear Envelope#Nuclear Pore#Nuclear Pore Complex Proteins#Phosphorylation#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins'
b'The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) in animals and yeast assures equal segregation of chromosomes during cell division. The prevalent occurrence of polyploidy in flowering plants together with the observation that many plants can be readily forced to double their genomes by application of microtubule drugs raises the question of whether plants have a proper SAC. Here, we provide a functional framework of the core SAC proteins in Arabidopsis. We reveal that Arabidopsis will delay mitosis in a SAC-dependent manner if the spindle is perturbed. However, we also show that the molecular architecture of the SAC is unique in plants. Moreover, the SAC is short-lived and cannot stay active for more than 2\xc2\xa0hr, after which the cell cycle is reset. This\xc2\xa0resetting opens the possibility for genome duplications and raises the hypothesis that a rapid termination of a SAC-induced mitotic arrest provides an\xc2\xa0adaptive advantage for plants impacting plant genome evolution. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Cell Cycle Proteins#Microtubules#Mitosis#Spindle Apparatus#Stress, Physiological'
b'Ribosome biogenesis regulates animal growth and is controlled by nutrient-responsive mTOR signaling. How ribosome biogenesis is regulated during the developmental growth of animals and how nutrient-responsive signaling adjusts ribosome biogenesis in this setting have remained insufficiently understood. We uncover PWP1 as a chromatin-associated regulator of developmental growth with a conserved role in RNA polymerase I (Pol I)-mediated rRNA transcription. We further observed that PWP1 epigenetically maintains the rDNA loci in a transcription-competent state. PWP1 responds to nutrition in Drosophila larvae via mTOR signaling through gene expression and phosphorylation, which controls the nucleolar localization of dPWP1. Our data further imply that dPWP1 acts synergistically with mTOR signaling to regulate the nucleolar localization of TFIIH, a known elongation factor of Pol I. Ribosome biogenesis is often deregulated in cancer, and we demonstrate that high PWP1 levels in human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma tumors are associated with poor prognosis. labels: #Animals#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Nucleolus#Chromatin#DNA, Ribosomal#Drosophila#Food#Gene Expression Regulation#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Nuclear Proteins#Phosphorylation#Prognosis#RNA Polymerase I#RNA, Ribosomal#Ribosomes#Signal Transduction#Survival Rate#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transcription, Genetic'
b"BACKGROUND: Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) catabolises \xe2\x88\xbc85% of the administered dose of fluoropyrimidines. Functional DPYD gene variants cause reduced/abrogated DPD activity. DPYD variants analysis may help for defining individual patients' risk of fluoropyrimidine-related severe toxicity.METHODS: The TOSCA Italian randomised trial enrolled colon cancer patients for 3 or 6 months of either FOLFOX-4 or XELOX adjuvant chemotherapy. In an ancillary pharmacogenetic study, 10 DPYD variants (*2A rs3918290 G>A, *13 rs55886062 T>G, rs67376798 A>T, *4 rs1801158 G>A, *5 rs1801159 A>G, *6 rs1801160 G>A, *9A rs1801265 T>C, rs2297595 A>G, rs17376848 T>C, and rs75017182 C>G), were retrospectively tested for associations with \xe2\xa9\xbegrade 3 fluoropyrimidine-related adverse events (FAEs). An association analysis and a time-to-toxicity (TTT) analysis were planned. To adjust for multiple testing, the Benjamini and Hochberg's False Discovery Rate (FDR) procedure was used.RESULTS: FAEs occurred in 194 out of 508 assessable patients (38.2%). In the association analysis, FAEs occurred more frequently in *6 rs1801160 A allele carriers (FDR=0.0083). At multivariate TTT analysis, significant associations were found for *6 rs1801160 A allele carriers (FDR<0.0001), *2A rs3918290 A allele carriers (FDR<0.0001), and rs2297595 GG genotype carriers (FDR=0.0014). Neutropenia was the most common FAEs (28.5%). *6 rs1801160 (FDR<0.0001), and *2A rs3918290 (FDR=0.0004) variant alleles were significantly associated with time to neutropenia.CONCLUSIONS: This study adds evidence on the role of DPYD pharmacogenetics for safety of patients undergoing fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colonic Neoplasms#Dihydrouracil Dehydrogenase (NADP)#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Neutropenia#Pharmacogenetics#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate"
b'BACKGROUND: Tumour stroma has important roles in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis. We aimed to clarify the roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) and their target genes in CRC stroma in the development of liver metastasis.METHODS: Tumour stroma was isolated from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues of primary CRCs with or without liver metastasis by laser capture microdissection, and miRNA expression was analysed using TaqMan miRNA arrays.RESULTS: Hierarchical clustering classified 16 CRCs into two groups according to the existence of synchronous liver metastasis. Combinatory target prediction identified tenascin C as a predicted target of miR-198, one of the top 10 miRNAs downregulated in tumour stroma of CRCs with synchronous liver metastasis. Immunohistochemical analysis of tenascin C in 139 primary CRCs revealed that a high staining intensity was correlated with synchronous liver metastasis (P<0.001). Univariate and multivariate analyses revealed that the tenascin C staining intensity was an independent prognostic factor to predict postoperative overall survival (P=0.005; n=139) and liver metastasis-free survival (P=0.001; n=128).CONCLUSIONS: Alterations of miRNAs in CRC stroma appear to form a metastasis-permissive environment that can elevate tenascin C to promote liver metastasis. Tenascin C in primary CRC stroma has the potential to be a novel biomarker to predict postoperative prognosis. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#MicroRNAs#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Stromal Cells#Survival Rate#Tenascin#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Nitric oxide, a signaling molecule, inhibits mitochondrial respiration by binding with cytochrome c oxidase, resulting in elevated production of reactive superoxide species (reactive oxygen and nitrogen) in the mitochondria and increased susceptibility to cell death. Generation of mitochondrial superoxide species can be suppressed by natural compounds such as resveratrol, a dietary polyphenol found in the skin of red fruits. In various cancer cells, resveratrol shows anti-oxidant and cancer preventive properties. Since, the effect of resveratrol on reactive superoxide species-independent apoptosis in prostate cancer cells is not well illustrated; therefore, we investigated this phenomenon in TRAMP murine prostate cancer cells. To accomplish this, TRAMP cells were incubated with resveratrol, resveratrol\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89DETA-NONOate, DETA-NONOate (nitric oxide donor), resveratrol\xe2\x80\x89+\xe2\x80\x89L-NMMA, or L-NMMA (nitric oxide inhibitor) for 48\xe2\x80\x89h, and reactive superoxide species in the mitochondria and culture supernatant were measured. In addition, the mitochondrial membrane potential, cell viability, expression of apoptotic markers (Bax and Bcl2), \xce\xb3-H2A.x, p53, and caspase-3 was determined. We found that resveratrol suppressed reactive superoxide species such as reactive oxygen species in the mitochondria and nitric oxide in culture supernatant when compared to the DETA-NONOate treatment and disrupted the mitochondrial membrane potential. Resveratrol also reduced cell viability, altered the expression of apoptotic markers (Bax and Bcl2), and increased expression of \xce\xb3-H2A.x (indicative marker of DNA fragmentation) and p53 (a critical DNA damage response protein). However, there was no appreciable modulation of the caspase-3. Therefore, our data suggest that resveratrol induces superoxide species-independent apoptosis and may act as a therapeutic agent against prostate cancer. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Disease Models, Animal#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mice#Prostatic Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Stilbenes'
b"Microphysiological systems (MPS), which include engineered organoids (EOs), single organ/tissue chips (TCs), and multiple organs interconnected to create miniature in vitro models of human physiological systems, are rapidly becoming effective tools for drug development and the mechanistic understanding of tissue physiology and pathophysiology. The second MPS thematic issue of Experimental Biology and Medicine comprises 15 articles by scientists and engineers from the National Institutes of Health, the IQ Consortium, the Food and Drug Administration, and Environmental Protection Agency, an MPS company, and academia. Topics include the progress, challenges, and future of organs-on-chips, dissemination of TCs into Pharma, children's health protection, liver zonation, liver chips and their coupling to interconnected systems, gastrointestinal MPS, maturation of immature cardiomyocytes in a heart-on-a-chip, coculture of multiple cell types in a human skin construct, use of synthetic hydrogels to create EOs that form neural tissue models, the blood-brain barrier-on-a-chip, MPS models of coupled female reproductive organs, coupling MPS devices to create a body-on-a-chip, and the use of a microformulator to recapitulate endocrine circadian rhythms. While MPS hardware has been relatively stable since the last MPS thematic issue, there have been significant advances in cell sourcing, with increased reliance on human-induced pluripotent stem cells, and in characterization of the genetic and functional cell state in MPS bioreactors. There is growing appreciation of the need to minimize perfusate-to-cell-volume ratios and respect physiological scaling of coupled TCs. Questions asked by drug developers are followed by an analysis of the potential value, costs, and needs of Pharma. Of highest value and lowest switching costs may be the development of MPS disease models to aid in the discovery of disease mechanisms; novel compounds including probes, leads, and clinical candidates; and mechanism of action of drug candidates. Impact statement Microphysiological systems (MPS), which include engineered organoids and both individual and coupled organs-on-chips and tissue chips, are a rapidly growing topic of research that addresses the known limitations of conventional cellular monoculture on flat plastic - a well-perfected set of techniques that produces reliable, statistically significant results that may not adequately represent human biology and disease. As reviewed in this article and the others in this thematic issue, MPS research has made notable progress in the past three years in both cell sourcing and characterization. As the field matures, currently identified challenges are being addressed, and new ones are being recognized. Building upon investments by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, National Institutes of Health, Food and Drug Administration, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, and Environmental Protection Agency of more than $200 million since 2012 and sizable corporate spending, academic and commercial players in the MPS community are demonstrating their ability to meet the translational challenges required to apply MPS technologies to accelerate drug development and advance toxicology. labels: #Drug Evaluation, Preclinical#Humans#Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells#Lab-On-A-Chip Devices#Microchip Analytical Procedures#Microfluidics#Tissue Engineering"
b'OBJECTIVES: To examine intelligence, language, and academic achievement through 18 years of age among children with congenital cytomegalovirus infection identified through hospital-based newborn screening who were asymptomatic at birth compared with uninfected infants.METHODS: We used growth curve modeling to analyze trends in IQ (full-scale, verbal, and nonverbal intelligence), receptive and expressive vocabulary, and academic achievement in math and reading. Separate models were fit for each outcome, modeling the change in overall scores with increasing age for patients with normal hearing (n= 78) or with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) diagnosed by 2 years of age (n= 11) and controls (n= 40).RESULTS: Patients with SNHL had full-scale intelligence and receptive vocabulary scores that were 7.0 and 13.1 points lower, respectively, compared with controls, but no significant differences were noted in these scores among patients with normal hearing and controls. No significant differences were noted in scores for verbal and nonverbal intelligence, expressive vocabulary, and academic achievement in math and reading among patients with normal hearing or with SNHL and controls.CONCLUSIONS: Infants with asymptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus infection identified through newborn screening with normal hearing by age 2 years do not appear to have differences in IQ, vocabulary or academic achievement scores during childhood, or adolescence compared with uninfected children. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Asymptomatic Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Cytomegalovirus Infections#Educational Status#Female#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Intelligence#Intelligence Tests#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Neonatal Screening#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Children with intestinal failure (IF) on parenteral nutrition (PN) are at high risk for bacteremia, and delays in antibiotic administration have been associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We designed an emergency department (ED) quality improvement (QI) initiative to reduce time to administration of intravenous antibiotics in febrile children with IF on PN.METHODS: Our aim was to decrease the mean time for febrile children with IF on PN to receive intravenous antibiotics by 50% to<60 minutes over a 12-month period. Secondary outcome measures were ED, hospital, and ICU length of stay (LOS). Our process measure was the rate of ordering recommended antibiotics, and our balancing measure was the rate of hypoglycemia. Interventions included increasing provider knowledge of IF, streamlining order entry, providing individualized feedback, and standardizing the triage process. Results were analyzed by using statistical process control methodology and time series analysis.RESULTS: We identified 149 eligible ED patients, of which 62 (41.6%) had bacteremia. The mean time to antibiotics decreased after the onset of the QI initiative from 112 to 39 minutes, and the ED LOS decreased from 286 to 247 minutes, but the total length of hospital and ICU stays were unchanged. The rate of hypoglycemia was also unchanged.CONCLUSIONS: Our QI intervention for febrile children with IF on PN shortened the time to receive antibiotics. Larger studies are needed to demonstrate the impact on overall LOS and mortality. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacteremia#Central Venous Catheters#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Female#Fever#Humans#Intestinal Diseases#Length of Stay#Male#Short Bowel Syndrome#Time-to-Treatment'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Metastasis in lung cancer is a major cause of high mortality. Metastasis depends on the potential of cancer cells to migrate and invade. Here we demonstrated the anti-migration and invasion activities of the compound cycloartobiloxanthone from Artocarpus gomezianus Wall. ex Tr\xc3\xa9c. (Moraceae).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of the compound on viability of human lung cancer H460 cells was investigated by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MTT) assay. Migration and invasion assays were performed. Filopodia formation was determined by phalloidin-rhodamine staining. The hallmark signaling proteins in regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), migration, and integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1V, \xce\xb21 and \xce\xb23 were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Cycloartobiloxanthone at concentrations lower than 10 \xce\xbcM has no cytotoxic effects. Regarding cell motility, cycloartobiloxanthone at 5-10 \xce\xbcM and 1-10 \xce\xbcM exhibited anti-migration and anti-invasion activities, respectively. Filopodia were found to be significantly reduced in cycloartobiloxanthone-treated cells. These effects correlated with the results from western blot analysis showing that the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase on Try397 (p-FAK (Try397)), and cell division cycle 42 (CDC42) were significantly reduced. Cycloartobiloxanthone significantly suppressed migratory integrins including integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1V, and \xce\xb23, while had no significant effect on integrin \xce\xb21. Besides, the compound suppressed epithelial to mesenchymal transition in lung cancer H460 cells indicated by the change in cell morphology form fibroblast-like to epithelial morphology with up-regulation of E-cadherin.CONCLUSION: Cycloartobiloxanthone possesses anti-migration and anti-invasion properties by suppressing several migratory-regulated mechanisms including suppressing migratory FAK and CDC42 signal, reduced filopodia of migrating cells, decreasing integrin \xce\xb15, \xce\xb1v and \xce\xb23, and inhibiting EMT. Our findings demonstrated the potentials of cycloartobiloxanthone for further studies and developments. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Flavonoids#Focal Adhesion Kinase 1#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Metastasis#Phosphorylation'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic cancer is a disease with very poor prognosis, and none of currently available pharmacotherapies have proven to be efficient in this indication. The aim of this study was to analyze the expression of fatty acid synthase (FASN) gene as a potential therapeutic target in proliferating human pancreatic cancer cells (PANC-1), and verify if orlistat, originally developed as an anti-obesity drug, inhibits PANC-1 proliferation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of orlistat on gene expression, lipogenesis, proliferation and apoptosis was studied in PANC-1 cell culture.RESULTS: Expression of FASN increased during proliferation of PANC-1. Inhibition of FASN by orlistat resulted in a significant reduction of PANC-1 proliferation and enhanced apoptosis of these cells.CONCLUSION: This study showed, to our knowledge for the first time, that orlistat exhibits significant antitumor activity against PANC-1 cells. This implies that orlistat analogs with good oral bioavailability may find application in pharmacotherapy of pancreatic cancer. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Fatty Acid Synthase, Type I#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lactones#Lipogenesis#Pancreatic Neoplasms'
b"BACKGROUND: Pyrazole derivatives have been reported to have potent antimicrobial and anticancer activity. We recently synthesized and determined the effects of analogs, benzamidoxime derivatives, on mammalian cells and discovered that benzamidoximes had an antiproliferative effect. Here we synthesized and determined the anticancer effects of hydrazonopyrazole derivatives on a mammalian cancer cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We synthesized 12 hydrazonopyrazole derivatives with several constant alkyl chain length or branched chains at the side chain to investigate their anticancer cell activity, using the human myelogenous leukemia cell line HL-60RG.RESULTS: Among all hydrazonopyrazole derivatives we synthesized, the hydrazonopyrazole derivative with a branched chain at the side chain rather than a constant alkyl chain significantly inhibited cell viability. The strongest hydrazonopyrazole derivative, 5-amino-4-cyanopyrazole-1-formaldehydehydrazono-3'-pentanal, tended to damage cells dose-dependently. This cell growth attenuation was a result of apoptosis, activating caspase-3 and fragmented DNA.CONCLUSION: Hydrazonopyrazole derivatives induced apoptosis of HL-60RG leukemia cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspase 3#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#DNA Fragmentation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia#Pyrazoles#Structure-Activity Relationship"
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: This study investigated the co-delivery of plasmid DNA and antisense oligodeoxyribonucleotide (AS ODN) into carcinoma cells by cholic acid-modified polyethylenimine (PEI-CA).MATERIALS AND METHODS: PEI-CA/plasmid DNA and AS ODN complexes were formulated and evaluated for delivery of plasmid DNA and AS ODN in HeLa cells. The efficiency of co-delivery of plasmid DNA and AS ODN was evaluated by cell growth inhibition using p53 and bcl-2 AS ODN.RESULTS: AS ODN intracellular delivery and green fluorescent protein expression upon cellular transfection were greater than in cells treated with uncomplexed nucleic acids. Treatment of the cells with PEI-CA/p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN complexes resulted in cell growth inhibition that was greater than that of either PEI-CA/p53 plasmid DNA complexes or PEI-CA/bcl-2 AS ODN complexes alone.CONCLUSION: The co-delivery of p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN in PEI-CA complexes enhanced therapeutic activities of both p53 plasmid DNA and bcl-2 AS ODN. labels: #Carcinoma#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Genetic Therapy#Genetic Vectors#Green Fluorescent Proteins#HeLa Cells#Humans#Oligodeoxyribonucleotides, Antisense#Plasmids#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'BACKGROUND: Studies have revealed that cancer might be treated with cannabinoids since they can influence cancer cell survival. These findings suggest an alternative treatment option to chemo- and radiotherapy, that are associated with numerous adverse side-effects for the patients.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Viability staining was conducted on lung cancer, testicular cancer and neuroblastoma cells treated with different concentrations of the synthetic cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2 and the percentage of dead cells was compared. Activity of apoptosis-related enzymes was investigated by the presence of DNA ladder in gel electrophoresis.RESULTS: Treatment with different WIN 55,212-2 concentrations led to a significant dose-dependent reduction of cell viability. A DNA ladder was observed after WIN 55,212-2 treatment of testicular cancer and lung cancer cells.CONCLUSION: The application of WIN 55,212-2 was found to trigger cell death in the investigated cell lines. The decline in lung cancer and testicular cancer cell viability seems to have been caused by apoptosis. These findings may contribute to development of alternative cancer therapy strategies. labels: #A549 Cells#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzoxazines#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#DNA Fragmentation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Morpholines#Naphthalenes#Neuroblastoma#Testicular Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: Feasibility and efficacy of boric acid (BA)-mediated boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) was first demonstrated by eliminating hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a rat model. Furthermore, selective uptake of BA by liver tumor cells was shown in a rabbit model. To gain further insight, this study aimed to investigate the mechanisms of transportation and selective uptake of BA in HepG2 liver tumor cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Transportation of BA in HepG2 cells was analyzed by time-course assays and by analyzing the rate of diffusion versus the concentration of BA. The effect of different tumor conditions on BA uptake was studied by treating HepG2 cells with 25 \xce\xbcg10B/ml BA under different concentrations of glucose, at different pH and in the presence of water-soluble cholesterol.RESULTS: HepG2 cells mainly uptake BA by simple diffusion. Cell membrane permeability may also contribute to tumor-specific uptake of BA.CONCLUSION: The selective uptake of BA was achieved primarily by diffusion, while other factors, such as low pH and increased membrane fluidity, which are hallmarks of HCC, might further enhance BA uptake. labels: #Boric Acids#Boron Neutron Capture Therapy#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Cell Membrane#Cholesterol#Glucose#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Liver Neoplasms#Spectrophotometry, Atomic#Tumor Microenvironment'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The oxazaphosphorines, ifosfamide and cyclophosphamide, represent a class of alkylating agents. The aim of the present in vitro study was to compare antileukemic activity of 4-hydroperoxyifosfamide (4-OOH-IF) and 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-OOH-CP).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed on MOLT-4 and ML-1 cells. The research was conducted using flow cytometry fluorescein diacetate/propidium iodide (PI), fluorescein-conjugated annexin V/PI, CaspGLOW Red Active Caspase-8 and -9, CellEvent\xe2\x84\xa2 Caspase-3/7 Green assays, and tetramethylrhodamine ethyl ester test.RESULTS: 4-OOH-IF and 4-OOH-CP distinctly reduced cell viability and triggered apoptosis and necrosis, causing changes in intracellular esterase activity, plasma membrane structure and integrity, caspase activation, and mitochondrial membrane potential. The oxazaphosphorines were responsible for the different antileukemic activities. 4-Hydroperoxyifosfamide appeared to be less cytotoxic against the leukemia cells than 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide. MOLT-4 cells were more sensitive to the action of the oxazaphosphorines than ML-1 cells.CONCLUSION: The findings provide a new insight on the mechanisms of cytotoxic action of 4-OOH-IF and 4-OOH-CP on the human acute lymphoblastic and myeloblastic leukemia cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspases#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Membrane#Cell Survival#Cyclophosphamide#Esterases#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Ifosfamide#Leukemia#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Epidoxorubicin is an anthracycline agent. The present study was undertaken to compare the antileukemic potential of epidoxorubicin and its two formamidine analogs containing either a morpholine moiety (EPIFmor) or a hexamethyleneimine moiety (EPIFhex) in the amidine group.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed in vitro on MOLT-4 cells using spectrophotometry, Coulter electrical impedance, flow cytometry, and light microscopy methods.RESULTS: The leukemia cell responses to the action of the anthracyclines were manifested in their different viability, count and volume, degree of apoptosis and necrosis, activity of caspases -8, -9, and -3/7, mitochondrial membrane potential, and in the cell-cycle distribution. In general, epidoxorubicin appeared to be the most active, and EPIFmor was more active than EPIFhex against MOLT-4 cells.CONCLUSION: The structural modifications of epidoxorubicin in the amidine group were responsible for the varied action of its formamidine analogs on human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. labels: #Amidines#Anthracyclines#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspases#Cell Cycle#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Epirubicin#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Membrane Potentials#Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: To search for new antileukemic agents, the chemical structure of phenytoin was modified. A possible cytotoxic activity of three bromoalkyl phenytoin analogs, methyl 2-(1-(3-bromopropyl)-2,4-dioxo-5,5-diphenylimidazolidin-3-yl) propanoate (PH2), 1-(3-bromopropyl)-3-methyl-5,5-diphenylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (PH3) and 1-(4-bromobutyl)-3-methyl-5,5-diphenylimidazolidine-2,4-dione (PH4) on regulated cell death, the cell cycle and cell ultrastructure was assessed.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The experiments were performed in vitro on HL-60 and U937 cells, using flow cytometry and electron microscopy methods.RESULTS: Application of PH2, PH3, and PH4 resulted in cell surface exposure of phosphatidylserine and plasma membrane impairment, caspase-8, -9, and -3/7 activation, dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, DNA breakage, cell-cycle disturbance and cell ultrastructural changes. In general, PH3 appeared to be the most active against the leukemia cells, and all bromoalkyl hydantoins, PH2-PH4, were more active in HL-60 cells than in U937 cells.CONCLUSION: The antileukemic activity of the bromoalkyl phenytoin analogs depended on the combination of N-hydantoin substituents and the human cell line used. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Caspases#Cell Cycle#Cell Membrane#DNA Breaks#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Molecular Structure#Phenytoin#U937 Cells'
b'Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest malignancies characterized by strong resistance to almost all chemotherapeutic agents and radiotherapy. In this study, we aimed to investigate the anticancer effect, enzymatic antioxidant activity [superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx)] and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) of synthesized benzothiazole compounds against adenocarcinoma cancer cells (PANC-1). 2-((1S,2S)-2-((E)-4-nitrostyryl)cyclopent-3-en-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazole and 2-((1S,2S)-2-((E)-4-fluorostyryl) cyclopent-3-en-1-yl)benzo[d]thiazole containing 2-substituted benzothiazole group were synthesized in two steps. PANC-1 cells were treated with different concentrations of benzothiazole compounds (5, 25, 50. 75 and 100 \xce\xbcM) for 48 h and their cytotoxicity effects were determined by the MTT assay. To determine whether these compounds induced apoptosis, PANC-1 cells were treated with increasing concentrations of the synthetic products. Our study showed that the synthesized compounds have antiproliferative effects against PANC-1 cells and reduced cell viability. These compounds induced apoptosis of pancreatic cancer cells and at the same time reduced the activity of SOD and GPx and reduced TAC. On the basis of these findings, these synthesized benzothiazole compounds may be considered as a potential therapeutic drug against human PANC-1 cancer cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Antioxidants#Benzothiazoles#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Glutathione Peroxidase#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Molecular Structure#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Structure-Activity Relationship#Superoxide Dismutase'
b'Pipoxolan is frequently prescribed as a smooth muscle relaxant. Pipoxolan has also been shown to have anticancer activity. Our study investigated whether pipoxolan induced apoptosis in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Cell cytotoxicity was evaluated by the MTT assay. Cell apoptosis and cell-cycle distribution were measured by annexin V/propidium iodide (PI) double staining and flow cytometry, respectively. Apoptotic-related proteins were assessed by western blotting. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) were measured with fluorescent probes. Following exposure of TW206 OSCC cells to pipoxolan, a time-dependently decrease in MMP and an increase in ROS were observed. However, these effects were significantly abrogated by the free radical scavenger N-acetyl-L-cysteine. Since high levels of ROS were produced early in the treatment, intracellular ROS seemed to play a key role in pipoxolan-induced apoptosis. In HSC-3 OSCC cells, our results demonstrated that pipoxolan treatment caused a time-dependent increase of protein expression of active caspase-3 and -9, cytosolic cytochrome c, cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase, and B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2)-like protein 4 (BAX). However, expression of BCL2 itself was reduced. Clearly, such an increase in BAX/BCL2 ratio would be associated with apoptosis. In addition, pipoxolan markedly suppressed the protein expression of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase (PI3K) and phosphorylation of protein kinase B (AKT). These data suggest that pipoxolan acts against HSC-3 in vitro via intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathways, and inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Dioxolanes#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Matrix Metalloproteinases#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mouth Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Signal Transduction'
b'AIM: Cisplatin plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) or S-1 is a standard therapy for gastric cancer (GC). However, cisplatin is emetic and potentially nephrotoxic. Oxaliplatin may be less toxic, but few basic data are available for this setting. Here, we evaluated oxaliplatin for GC, by testing surgical specimens.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated effects of oxaliplatin and 5-FU, alone and in combination, on surgical specimens from 11 patients with GC, using collagen gel droplet embedded culture drug tests.RESULTS: Oxaliplatin was less efficacious than 5-FU, and its synergistic effect was less in tumors highly sensitive to 5-FU than in those with low sensitivity. Tumor differentiation and drug sensitivity were not correlated.CONCLUSION: Although oxaliplatin monotherapy had little effect on GC, we saw a limited synergistic effect of oxaliplatin with 5-FU in 5-FU-sensitive patients. Collagen gel droplet embedded culture drug tests may predict this synergistic effect, and help select candidates for this or other regimens. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Cell Culture Techniques#Cisplatin#Drug Screening Assays, Antitumor#Drug Synergism#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Male#Middle Aged#Stomach Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Lomefloxacin (LFX) is a widely used fluoroquinolone antimicrobial agent that plays an important role in the treatment of human and animal infections; however, it has been reported to cause phototoxicity. In this study, we investigated the induction of apoptosis due to ultraviolet A (UVA) light in the presence and absence of LFX in HL-60 human promyelocytic leukemia cells. HL-60 cells were exposed to UVA at an intensity of 1.1 mW/cm2for 20 min in the presence and absence of LFX, and the induction of apoptosis was examined by analyzing cell morphology, DNA fragmentation, and caspase-3 activity. Cells treated with 100 \xce\xbcM LFX and UVA clearly showed membrane blebbing and cell shrinkage. The proportion of apoptotic cells was significantly higher in cells treated with both UVA and LFX than in those treated with UVA or LFX alone. In addition, DNA ladder formation and caspase-3 activation were observed in cells treated with both UVA and LFX. A significant reduction in the number of UVA-induced apoptotic cells and caspase-3 activation was observed when histidine was present, which suggested that photodynamically-generated singlet oxygen is an important mediator of apoptosis. These results indicate that the combination of UVA and LFX induces apoptosis in HL-60 cells. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Caspase 3#Cell Survival#Combined Modality Therapy#DNA Fragmentation#Fluoroquinolones#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HL-60 Cells#Humans#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Photochemotherapy#Ultraviolet Rays#Ultraviolet Therapy'
b'BACKGROUND: Lactoperoxidase (LPO) is an antimicrobial protein secreted from mammary, salivary and other mucosal glands. It is an important member of heme peroxidase enzymes and the primary peroxidase enzyme present in breast tissues. In addition to the antimicrobial properties, LPO has been shown to be associated with breast cancer etiology. Heterocyclic amines, an important class of environmental and dietary carcinogens, have been increasingly associated with breast cancer etiology. Heterocyclic amines undergo activation in breast tissue as a result of oxidation by LPO. The current study includes three important heterocyclic amines, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and 2-amino-1-methy-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]-pyridine (PhIP), that have carcinogenic activity.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The structural binding characterization of IQ, MeIQx and PhIP with LPO was done using in silico approaches. Their binding pattern and interactions with LPO amino acid residues were analyzed.RESULTS: The three compounds bound in the distal heme cavity of LPO without replacing the important water molecule required for oxidation of substrate compounds. PhIP displayed lesser binding affinity for LPO in comparison to IQ and MeIQx. The binding mode of heterocyclic amines in distal heme cavity of LPO resembled to that of substrate binding pattern.CONCLUSION: The three heterocyclic amines are suggested to act as LPO substrate. The undisturbed water molecule present in distal heme cavity of the LPO is expected to facilitate the oxidation and activation of the three heterocyclic amines. These activated compounds may potentially bind with DNA in breast tissues forming DNA adducts and may subsequently lead to breast cancer initiation. labels: #Amines#Binding Sites#Breast Neoplasms#Carcinogens#Female#Humans#Lactoperoxidase#Models, Molecular#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Protein Binding#Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The aim of this retrospective study was to clarify the effectiveness of chemotherapy with gemcitabine combined with low-dose 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin (GFP) for advanced biliary carcinoma after hepatectomy.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two patients had biliary carcinoma with lymph node metastasis, intrahepatic metastasis or positive surgical margins, including intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (IHC, n=25), hilar cholangiocarcinoma (HC, n=14), and gallbladder cancer (GBC, n=23). Twenty-eight patients (IHC; n=9, HC; n=8, GBC; n=11) received adjuvant GFP chemotherapy.RESULTS: We found no significant difference in clinicopathological factors in patients treated with or without adjuvant GFP chemotherapy. Overall, survival in the adjuvant GFP group was significantly better than that in the non-adjuvant GFP group (3-year survival: 61.9% vs. 8.8%, p<0.001), as was relapse-free survival.CONCLUSION: Adjuvant GFP chemotherapy after hepatectomy may be a promising option for improving surgical outcomes in patients with advanced biliary carcinoma. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Cholangiocarcinoma#Cisplatin#Deoxycytidine#Female#Fluorouracil#Gallbladder Neoplasms#Hepatectomy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Despite an expected prognostic disadvantage for upper tract versus lower tract metastatic urothelial carcinomas (UTUC/LTUC), only few studies have been conducted to elucidate potential differences in chemotherapy treatment.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A post-hoc subgroup analysis of a non-interventional study investigating vinflunine after failure of a platinum-based chemotherapy in metastatic/locally advanced UC patients was performed.RESULTS: A total of 18 and 59 out of 77 patients had UTUC and LTUC, respectively. The effectiveness of vinflunine treatment was comparable with an overall response rate of 22.2% and 23.7% respectively and a median progression-free survival of 2.76 months in both groups. Median overall survival was 5.0 months in UTUC compared to 8.2 months in the LTUC group (p=0.478). The safety profile was in accordance with previous vinflunine experiences, with a comparable frequency of adverse events in both groups.CONCLUSION: Vinflunine can be applied in the 2nd line for UC regardless of the primary tumor localization. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urologic Neoplasms#Vinblastine'
b'AIM: We investigated bladder urothelial carcinoma with peritoneal involvement.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Inclusion criteria were: pathology-confirmed urothelial carcinoma; peritoneal spread identified on computed tomographic (CT) scans performed initially or after either cystectomy or concomitant chemoradiotherapy (CCRT), and absence of visceral metastases; and chemotherapy administered after peritoneal spread was diagnosed.RESULTS: Forty-seven cases included initial modes of therapy with chemotherapy in 24 patients (51%), cystectomy in 17 (36%), and CCRT in six (13%), only given as a result of under-staging. After local therapy, these patients received a continuous maintenance chemotherapy regimen of 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, cisplatin, and gemcitabine. The overall response rate was 85%, and the side-effects were mild and tolerated. The median survival time was 28 months. The survival time of cases initially treated only with chemotherapy was not statistically different to that of those with local disease.CONCLUSION: Bladder urothelial carcinomas with peritoneal involvement can benefit from continuous maintenance chemotherapy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Cystectomy#Deoxycytidine#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Leucovorin#Maintenance Chemotherapy#Male#Middle Aged#Peritoneal Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: Heavily treated patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have few treatment options, while irinotecan and bevacizumab have proven synergistic action in preclinical studies.PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 49 patients with heavily treated NSCLC were enrolled from 2011-2014 and treated with irinotecan and bevacizumab. Treatment response along with mutational status of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP1) and EGFR expression were evaluated. Progression-free (PFS) and overall (OS) survival were monitored.RESULTS: Median follow-up was 13.2 months. Twenty-three patients had received three or more prior therapy lines. Overall response rate was 32% [95% confidence interval (CI)=22%-39%] and 26% of patients achieved stable disease. Median PFS was 4.4 (95% CI=2.8-8.3) months and median OS 18.0 (95% CI=16.2-30.7) months. Nine patients harboring EGFR mutations had a long-lasting partial response. A shorter OS was found in patients with a higher TIMP1 expression (p=0.006).CONCLUSION: Irinotecan combined with bevacizumab had favorable antitumor activity in heavily pretreated patients with NSCLC. These results suggest this is a reasonable strategy, particularly for patients with low TIMP1 expression. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bevacizumab#Camptothecin#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Survival Analysis#Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-1#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy demonstrated a survival benefit versus cystectomy alone in muscle-invasive urothelial bladder cancer. Despite this advantage, preoperative chemotherapy is not widely employed. When patients are unfit for cisplatin-based regimen, they are often candidates for immediate surgery. In our study, patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer were treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The principal objective was the rate of complete pathological response (pCR). Secondary end-points were disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS) and toxicity.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients (n=72) with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0-1, clinical stage cT3-4, and/or N+ muscle-invasive bladder cancer were enrolled. The chemotherapy regimen was established according to the cisplatin feasibility. Thirty patients were treated with cisplatin/gemcitabine (Gem) and 42 with carboplatin/Gem.RESULTS: The rate of pCR was 29.2%, 36% with cisplatin-based treatment and 23.8% with carboplatin (p=0.3574). DFS and OS were longer in pCR patients, while no difference was reported between cisplatin/Gem and Carboplatin/Gem groups.CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the prognostic value of pCR in neoadjuvant chemotherapy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer. When the patients are not fit for cisplatin, a carboplatin/Gem regimen represents a valid option because of comparable long-term outcome. When cisplatin is not feasible, the exclusion of a preoperative treatment is not justified. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carboplatin#Carcinoma, Transitional Cell#Cisplatin#Cystectomy#Deoxycytidine#Disease-Free Survival#Feasibility Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Prospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Readministration of anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) antibody for metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) after disease progression remains to be determined.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Readministration of anti-EGFR antibody in mCRC patients previously refractory to anti-EGFR antibody was prospectively observed.RESULTS: A total of thirteen patients with a median age of 60-years old and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 0 or 1, were enrolled. The median number of previous chemotherapies was 3 (range 2-5). Prior anti-EGFR antibody in combination with cytotoxic drugs was administered in 12 patients. Anti-EGFR antibody readministration regimens were cetuximab/panitumumab plus capecitabine/S-1 (seven patients), panitumumab plus FOLFOX (three patients), cetuximab plus irinotecan (two patients), and panitumumab monotherapy (one patient). Seven patients showed stable disease following readministration and six patients showed progressive disease. The median overall survival (OS) following readministration was 228 days and the median PFS was 102 days. Patients with intervals longer than 90 days between anti-EGFR therapies exhibited more favorable survival than those with intervals shorter than 90 days. Switching of anti-EGFR antibody between treatments was observed to contribute survival.CONCLUSION: Anti-EGFR antibody readministration could show a modest survival benefit in mCRC patients, with the length of therapy interval and switching of antibody being important contributory factors. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Camptothecin#Capecitabine#Cetuximab#Colorectal Neoplasms#Female#Fluorouracil#Humans#Leucovorin#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Organoplatinum Compounds#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Retreatment#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Erlotinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR); it is used in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We focused on the role of serum concentration of erlotinib and its association with outcome and toxicity in patients with advanced NSCLC harbouring the wild-type EGFR gene or squamous histology.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Clinical data of 122 patients were analyzed. Serum samples were collected within four weeks after the initiation of treatment.RESULTS: There was no significant association of erlotinib concentration with PFS nor OS (p=0.352 and p=0.6393). Significant associations of erlotinib concentration with grade of skin rash and diarrhoea (p<0.0001 and p<0.0001) were found. Skin rash and diarrhoea were significantly associated with PFS (p=0.0338 and p=0.0001) and OS (p=0.0064 and p=0.0353).CONCLUSION: Erlotinib concentration was not associated with outcome. Erlotinib concentration was associated with occurrence and severity of skin rash and diarrhoea; the outcome was associated with erlotinib toxicity. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Diarrhea#Disease-Free Survival#Erlotinib Hydrochloride#Exanthema#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Neoplasm Staging#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Treatment Outcome'
b'Several second-generation inhibitors of anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) have demonstrated potent activity in ALK rearrangement-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Two of these agents, ceritinib, and alectinib, recently received approval for the treatment of ALK-rearranged NSCLC in Japan. The efficacy of treatment with a second-generation ALK inhibitor after failure with a different second-generation ALK inhibitor remains unclear. We present a series of eight patients with ALK-rearranged NSCLC treated with alectinib who experienced disease progression after ceritinib. Both crizotinib and ceritinib were administered to six patients, with four (29%) patients receiving crizotinib followed by ceritinib. Among the eight study patients, two (25%) had partial response, one (12%) stable disease, and five (63%) had progressive disease. The median progression-free survival was 3.6 months (95% confidence interval=0-7.1 months). The results of this study suggest that the second-generation ALK inhibitor alectinib has limited efficacy after initial treatment with the second-generation ALK inhibitor ceritinib. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carbazoles#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Receptor Protein-Tyrosine Kinases#Sulfones#Survival Analysis#Treatment Failure#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Taxanes are among the key drugs for breast cancer treatment. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of upfront weekly nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (Nab-PTX; 100 mg/m2) for human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stage II to IV breast cancer received 12 cycles of weekly 100 mg/m2Nab-PTX as first-line treatment. Preoperative chemotherapy with anthracyclines after Nab-PTX was recommended.RESULTS: From 2012 to 2014, we enrolled 66 patients. The overall response rate after Nab-PTX was 59.1% [95% confidence interval(CI)=47.2% to 71.0%), 63.6% in those with hormone receptor-positive tumors, and 36.4% in those with triple-negative tumors. The pathological complete response rate at surgery was 15% (95% CI=6.1% to 24.4%). Toxicity analysis showed grade 2 peripheral neuropathy in 38 patients (57.6%), grade 2/3 leukocytopenia in 29 (43.9%) and grade 2/3 liver dysfunction in five (7.5%).CONCLUSION: Weekly neoadjuvant Nab-PTX at 100 mg/m2led to good response rates (59.1%) and was well tolerated. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel#Anthracyclines#Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasm Staging#Receptor, ErbB-2#Treatment Outcome'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of colorectal liver metastases (CRLMs) is a method developed in the last 15 years. It provides an acceptable control of the malignant process with lower risks compared to surgical resection. The aim of the study was to assess immediate and long-term results, including recurrence, survival, morbidity/mortality rates after RFA.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two cases with CRLMs were treated by RFA during open surgery (89 lesions). Patients were followed-up for a minimum of 36 months, with assessment of recurrences and survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years, using computed tomography (CT) scan, contrast-enhanced ultrasound and tumor markers (carcinoembryonoc antigen, carbohydrate antigen-19.9).RESULTS: Local relapses, recurrences in other areas and survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years suggest acceptable values comparative with liver resections in the first 2-3 years and demonstrated long-term limitations, despite the use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Major postoperative negative prognostic factors are tumor multicentricity and tumor's dimensions over 5 cm.CONCLUSION: RFA of CRLMs is a safe procedure with low rates of local relapses and recurrences, as well as acceptable survival rates, in the first 24-36 months post-procedure. It is recommended for patients with no indications for liver resection or having major resection risks. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Catheter Ablation#Colorectal Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Retrospective Studies#Survival Analysis#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: Many studies have shown that depression increases mortality risk. We aimed to investigate the duration of time over which depression is associated with increased risk of mortality, secular trends in the association between depression and mortality, and sex differences in the association between depression and mortality.METHODS: We conducted a cohort study of 3410 adults enrolled in 3 representative samples of a county in Atlantic Canada in 1952 (n= 1003), 1970 (n= 1203) or 1992 (n= 1402) (the Stirling County Study). Depression was measured using a diagnostic algorithm based on the presence of depressed mood and associated symptoms, duration of more than 1 month, and substantial impairment. Vital status of participants through 2011 was determined using probabilistic linkages to the Canadian Mortality Database.RESULTS: Depression was associated with a heightened risk of mortality among men during the 3 time periods of the study, with hazard ratios (HRs) of 2.90 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.69-4.98) between 1952 and 1967, 1.97 (CI 1.34-2.89) between 1968 and 1990, and 1.52 (CI 1.09-2.13) between 1991 and 2011. Elevated risk of mortality was noted among women only between 1990 and 2011 (HR = 1.51; CI = 1.11-2.05).INTERPRETATION: The association between depression and mortality persists over long periods of time and has emerged among women in recent decades, despite contemporaneous improvements in the treatment of depression and reduction of stigma associated with depression. Further research is needed to better understand the mechanisms involved. labels: #Adult#Aged#Canada#Cause of Death#Depression#Depressive Disorder#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Incidence#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Mortality#Population Surveillance#Proportional Hazards Models#Risk Assessment#Socioeconomic Factors'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Postvaccination syncope can cause injury. Drinking water prephlebotomy increases peripheral vascular tone, decreasing risk of blood-donation presyncope and syncope. This study evaluated whether drinking water prevaccination reduces postvaccination presyncope, a potential syncope precursor.METHODS: We conducted a randomized trial of subjects aged 11 to 21 years receiving \xe2\x89\xa51 intramuscular vaccine in primary care clinics. Intervention subjects were encouraged to drink 500 mL of water, with vaccination recommended 10 to 60 minutes later. Control subjects received usual care. Presyncope symptoms were assessed with a 12-item survey during the 20-minutes postvaccination. Symptoms were classified with a primary cutoff sensitive for presyncope, and a secondary, more restrictive cutoff requiring greater symptoms. Results were adjusted for clustering by recruitment center.RESULTS: There were 906 subjects randomly assigned to the control group and 901 subjects randomly assigned to the intervention group. None had syncope. Presyncope occurred in 36.2% of subjects by using the primary definition, and in 8.0% of subjects by using the restrictive definition. There were no significant differences in presyncope by intervention group for the primary (1-sided test,P= .24) or restrictive outcome (1-sided test,P= .17). Among intervention subjects vaccinated within 10 to 60 minutes after drinking all 500 mL of water (n= 519), no reduction in presyncope was observed for the primary or restrictive outcome (1-sided tests,P= .13,P= .17). In multivariable regression analysis, presyncope was associated with younger age, history of passing out or nearly passing out after a shot or blood draw, prevaccination anxiety, receiving>1 injected vaccine, and greater postvaccination pain.CONCLUSIONS: Drinking water before vaccination did not prevent postvaccination presyncope. Predictors of postvaccination presyncope suggest opportunities for presyncope and syncope prevention interventions. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Drinking#Drinking Water#Female#Humans#Male#Syncope#Vaccination'
b'INTRODUCTION: Epithelial-mesenchymal-transition (EMT) has been previously identified as a contributor to prostate cancer progression to metastasis and therapeutic resistance to antiandrogens and radiotherapy. In this study we conducted a retrospective analysis to investigate the significance of radiation-induced EMT and consequential changes to the tumor microenvironment in biochemical recurrence and response to radiotherapy in prostate cancer patients.METHODS: Expression profiling and localization for EMT effectors, E-Cadherin, N-Cadherin, \xce\xb2-catenin and Vimentin was assessed in human prostate tumor specimens pre- and post-radiotherapy and correlated with biochemical recurrence. In addition, immunoreactivity of the DNA repair enzyme, polymerase (PARP-1) and the cytoskeletal-remodeling regulator, cofilin was evaluated in prostate tumor specimens pre- and post-radiotherapy and correlated with pre-treatment prostate-specific antigen levels (PSA).RESULTS: Our findings identified that characteristic changes associated with the EMT phenotype and its reversal to mesenchymal-epithelial-transition (MET) within the tumor microenvironment correlate with biochemical recurrence and resistance to radiotherapy among prostate cancer patients. Moreover, elevated PARP-1 expression among the tumor cells undergoing EMT implicates that DNA repair mechanisms may potentially reverse the cytotoxic effects of radiotherapy-induced DNA breaks.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that EMT programming effectors, integrated with the actin cytoskeleton regulator cofilin and mesenchymal PARP-1 expression profile provide a signature of potential predictive significance of therapeutic response to radiotherapy in a subset of prostate cancer patients. labels: #Aged#Cohort Studies#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Poly (ADP-Ribose) Polymerase-1#Predictive Value of Tests#Prostatic Neoplasms#Radiation Tolerance#Retrospective Studies'
b'PURPOSE: To determine whether there exists any significant difference in normal tissue toxicity between intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or proton therapy for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 134 study patients (n=49 treated with proton therapy, n=85 with IMRT) treated in a randomized trial had a previously validated esophageal toxicity imaging biomarker, esophageal expansion, quantified during radiation therapy, as well as esophagitis grade (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0), on a weekly basis during treatment. Differences between the 2 modalities were statically analyzed using the imaging biomarker metric value (Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance), as well as the incidence and severity of esophagitis grade (\xcf\x872and Fisher exact tests, respectively). The dose-response of the imaging biomarker was also compared between modalities using esophageal equivalent uniform dose, as well as delivered dose to an isotropic esophageal subvolume.RESULTS: No statistically significant difference in the distribution of esophagitis grade, the incidence of grade \xe2\x89\xa53 esophagitis (15 and 11 patients treated with IMRT and proton therapy, respectively), or the esophageal expansion imaging biomarker between cohorts (P>.05) was found. The distribution of imaging biomarker metric values had similar distributions between treatment arms, despite a slightly higher dose volume in the proton arm (P>.05). Imaging biomarker dose-response was similar between modalities for dose quantified as esophageal equivalent uniform dose and delivered esophageal subvolume dose. Regardless of treatment modality, there was high variability in imaging biomarker response, as well as esophagitis grade, for similar esophageal doses between patients.CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in esophageal toxicity from either proton- or photon-based radiation therapy as quantified by esophagitis grade or the esophageal expansion imaging biomarker. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Analysis of Variance#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Chi-Square Distribution#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Esophagitis#Esophagus#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Photons#Proton Therapy#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Statistics, Nonparametric'
b'PURPOSE: To develop a Monte Carlo model for patient-specific dosimetry of32P microparticle localized internal radionuclide therapy for advanced pancreatic cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Spherical tumor geometries and a pancreatic phantom were modeled, as well as different 3-dimensional non-uniform clinical pancreatic geometries based on patient-specific ultrasound images. The dosimetry simulations modeled the dose distribution due to the energy spectrum of emitted beta particles.RESULTS: The average dose for small (3-cm diameter) and large (6-cm diameter) spherical tumors was 111\xc2\xa0Gy (for 7.6 MBq administered activity) and 128\xc2\xa0Gy (for 58 MBq), respectively. For the clinical 3-dimensional geometries, on the basis of patient data, the mean doses delivered to the tumor were calculated to be in the range 102 to 113\xc2\xa0Gy, with negligible dose to the pancreas for the smallest tumor volumes. The calculated dose distributions are highly non-uniform. For the largest tumor studied, the pancreas received approximately 6% of the tumor dose (5.7\xc2\xa0Gy). Importantly, we found that because the smallest tumor studied exhibited the most dynamic changes in volume in response to the treatment, the dose to tumor and pancreas is significantly underestimated if a static tumor volume is assumed.CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate the dosimetry of32P microparticle localized internal radionuclide therapy for pancreatic cancer and the possibility of developing personalized treatment strategies. The results also highlight the importance of considering the effects of non-uniform dose distributions and dynamic change of tumor mass during treatment on the dosimetry of the tumor and critical organs. labels: #Beta Particles#Humans#Monte Carlo Method#Pancreas#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Phosphorus Radioisotopes#Precision Medicine#Radiotherapy Dosage#Spheroids, Cellular#Tumor Burden#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Ultrasonography'
b'PURPOSE: To identify prognostic factors and patterns of local failure in patients with cholangiocarcinoma (CCA), after surgical resection in the absence of adjuvant radiation, for optimal definition of target volumes encompassing the majority of local recurrences.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A chart review was performed in patients who underwent resection for primary CCA (intrahepatic, hilar, and distal) between 1999 and 2014. Local failure was defined as recurrence in a theoretical reasonable postoperative radiation volume. This includes the cut surface of liver, biliary anastomosis, hilum, portal nodes, celiac nodes, peri-pancreatic nodes, gastro-hepatic nodes, and retroperitoneal nodes. Patients who received adjuvant radiation were excluded.RESULTS: A total of 189 patients underwent surgical resection for CCA, of whom 145 patients had sufficient follow-up. Median follow-up was 41.6\xc2\xa0months (95% confidence interval 35.4-48.7\xc2\xa0months). Of the 145 cases, 102 were intrahepatic and 43 were hilar/distal CCA. Adjuvant chemotherapy was given in 38 cases (26%), of which 20 (54%) were gemcitabine-based. Eighty-six patients (59%) had a documented recurrence, of whom 44 (51%) had a locoregional component. Among patients who had a recurrence, 23 (27%) had a recurrence at the biliary anastomosis and/or cut liver surface. Twenty-eight patients (32.6%) had a recurrence in the regional lymph nodes, most prevalent in the portal (16.3%) and retroperitoneal (17.4%) lymph nodes. Univariable analysis identified tumor size, any vascular invasion, presence of satellites, stage/nodal status, and receipt of chemotherapy as significant prognostic factors of overall recurrence among intrahepatic patients. Presence of satellites, and stage 3/Nx status remained statistically significant in multivariable modeling.CONCLUSIONS: The\xc2\xa0areas at highest risk for locoregional recurrence after surgical resection for primary CCA are the biliary anastomosis/cut liver surface, portal lymph nodes, and retroperitoneal lymph nodes. Although these results need to be validated, adjuvant radiation should possibly cover these areas to maximize locoregional control. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Bile Duct Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Cholangiocarcinoma#Confidence Intervals#Deoxycytidine#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Retrospective Studies#Time Factors'
b'PURPOSE: To update the Diagnosis-Specific Graded Prognostic Assessment (DS-GPA) for a markedly heterogeneous patient population, patients with melanoma and brain metastases, using a larger, more current cohort, including molecular markers.METHODS: The original Melanoma-GPA is based on data from 483 patients whose conditions were diagnosed between 1985 and 2005. This is a multi-institutional retrospective database analysis of 823 melanoma patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases from January 1, 2006, to December 31, 2015. Multivariable analyses identified significant prognostic factors, which were weighted and included in the updated index (Melanoma-molGPA). Multiple Cox regression was used to select and weight prognostic factors in proportion to their hazard ratios to design the updated Melanoma-molGPA in which scores of 4.0 and 0.0 are associated with the best and worst prognoses, as with all of the diagnosis-specific GPA indices. Log-rank tests were used to compare adjacent classes.RESULTS: There were 5 significant prognostic factors for survival (age, Karnofsky performance status [KPS], extracranial metastases [ECM], number of brain metastases, and BRAF status), whereas only KPS and the number of brain metastases were significant in the original Melanoma-GPA. Median survival improved from 6.7 to 9.8\xc2\xa0months between the 2 treatment eras, and the median survival times for patients with Melanoma-molGPA of 0 to 1.0, 1.5 to 2.0, 2.5 to 3.0, and 3.5 to 4.0 were 4.9, 8.3, 15.8, and 34.1\xc2\xa0months (P<.0001 between each adjacent group).CONCLUSIONS: Survival and our ability to estimate survival in melanoma patients with brain metastases has improved significantly. The updated Melanoma-molGPA, a user-friendly tool to estimate survival, will facilitate clinical decision making regarding whether and which treatment is appropriate and will also be useful for stratification of future clinical\xc2\xa0trials. To further simplify use, a free online/smart phone app is available at brainmetgpa.com. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Brain Neoplasms#Clinical Decision-Making#Genetic Markers#Humans#Karnofsky Performance Status#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Regression Analysis'
b'PURPOSE: To\xc2\xa0investigate the relationship between patient and tumor characteristics and pain response in patients with metastatic bone disease, and construct and internally validate a clinical prediction model for pain response to guide individualized treatment decision making.MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 965 patients with painful bone metastases undergoing palliative radiation therapy at a tertiary referral center between 1999 and 2007 were identified. Pain scores were measured at 1, 2, and 3\xc2\xa0months after radiation therapy. Pain response was defined as at least a 2-point decrease on a pain score scale of 0-10, without increase in analgesics, or an analgesic decrease of at least 25% without an increase in pain score. Thirteen candidate predictors were identified from the literature and expert experience. After multiple imputation, final predictors were selected using stepwise regression and collapsed into a prediction model. Model performance was evaluated by calibration and discrimination and corrected for optimism.RESULTS: Overall 462 patients (47.9%) showed a response. Primary tumor site, performance status, and baseline pain score were predictive for pain response, with a corrected c-statistic of 0.63. The predicted response rates after radiation therapy increased from 37.5% for patients with the highest risk score to 79.8% for patients with the lowest risk score and were in good agreement with the observed response rates.CONCLUSIONS: A prediction score for pain response after palliative radiation therapy was developed. The model performance was moderate, showing that prediction of pain response is difficult. New biomarkers and predictors may lead to improved identification of the large group of patients who are unlikely to respond and who may benefit from other or innovative treatment options. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Analgesics#Bone Neoplasms#Breast Neoplasms#Cancer Pain#Decision Making#Female#Humans#Karnofsky Performance Status#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Theoretical#Pain Measurement#Palliative Care#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk#Spinal Neoplasms#Treatment Outcome'
b'PURPOSE: To evaluate the effective dose and patterns of recurrence after stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) for hepatic metastases that arise from colorectal cancer.METHODS AND MATERIALS: A cohort of 70 patients with 103 colorectal liver metastases were treated with SBRT at a single institution. The prescribed doses were 45 to 60\xc2\xa0Gy in 3 to 4 fractions, but these were modified according to the tolerance of the adjacent normal tissue. To allow for dose comparisons, a biological equivalent dose was calculated.RESULTS: The median follow-up period was 34.2\xc2\xa0months (range, 5.3-121.8\xc2\xa0months). The 2-year overall survival and progression-free survival rates were 75% and 35%, respectively. In subgroups, the 2-year local control rates for biological equivalent dose \xe2\x89\xa480\xc2\xa0Gy (group 1), 100 to 112\xc2\xa0Gy (group 2), and \xe2\x89\xa5132\xc2\xa0Gy (group 3) were 52%, 83%, and 89%, respectively. Cox proportional hazards model revealed a significant difference between groups (hazard ratio 0.44, P=.03 for group 2; hazard ratio 0.17, P=.17 for group 3; P=.01 for total). The major pattern of failure was a new liver metastasis out of the SBRT field. There was no grade \xe2\x89\xa53 toxicity.CONCLUSIONS: Stereotactic body radiation therapy of liver metastases derived from colorectal cancer offers a locally effective treatment without significant complications. Longer local control can be expected if higher doses are used. Further studies will be needed to compare the efficacies of SBRT with those of surgical resection or radiofrequency ablation. labels: #Aged#Chemoembolization, Therapeutic#Colorectal Neoplasms#Dose Fractionation#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Organs at Risk#Proportional Hazards Models#Radiosurgery#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Relative Biological Effectiveness#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b'PURPOSE: A recent randomized controlled trial demonstrated that the addition of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) to brachytherapy did not improve progression-free survival in select patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. We evaluated whether the addition of EBRT to brachytherapy improves prostate cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) for intermediate- and high-risk disease using a large national database.METHODS AND MATERIALS: We identified 5836 patients in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare linked database with a diagnosis of National Comprehensive Cancer Network intermediate-risk (Gleason score 7, prostate-specific antigen 10-20\xc2\xa0ng/mL, or stage cT2b-T2c) or high-risk (Gleason score 8-10 or prostate-specific antigen>20\xc2\xa0ng/mL and stage\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa4cT3a) prostate cancer who had undergone brachytherapy, with or without EBRT and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). Patients were diagnosed from 2004 through 2009. Intermediate-risk patients with Gleason score \xe2\x89\xa43+4 and 1 intermediate-risk factor were considered favorable and all others unfavorable. We used multivariable Fine-Gray competing risks regression to study PCSM while adjusting for sociodemographic and clinical factors and ADT\xc2\xa0use.RESULTS: Overall, 50.3% of intermediate- and high-risk patients who received brachytherapy and EBRT did not have significantly improved PCSM compared with that of the patients who received brachytherapy alone (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR] 1.46, 95% confidence interval [CI]0.69-3.11; P=.322; 5-year PCSM 2.4% vs 1.0%). This lack of benefit was seen among favorable intermediate-risk (AHR 2.66, 95% CI 0.93-7.62, P=.069; 5-year PCSM 1.3% vs 0.6%), unfavorable intermediate-risk (AHR 0.68, 95% CI 0.16-2.96, P=.612; 5-year PCSM 1.0% vs 1.2%), and high-risk (AHR 1.82, 95% CI 0.67-4.98, P=.242; 5-year PCSM 5.3% vs 2.1%) subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that certain patients with intermediate- or high-risk prostate cancer treated with brachytherapy might not benefit from the addition of EBRT. A randomized controlled trial of brachytherapy plus ADT with or without EBRT for unfavorable intermediate- and favorable high-risk organ-confined prostate cancer should be undertaken. labels: #Aged#Brachytherapy#Combined Modality Therapy#Databases, Factual#Humans#Male#Neoplasm Grading#Propensity Score#Prostatic Neoplasms#SEER Program'
b'PURPOSE: To\xc2\xa0investigate the associations between interim tumor responses on18F-fluorodeoxyglucose\xc2\xa0(18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and18F-fluorothymidine (18F-FLT) PET and patient outcomes, especially progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients with FDG-PET/computed tomography stage I-III NSCLC were prescribed concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy (60\xc2\xa0Gy in 30 fractions). Scans were acquired at baseline (FDG-PET/computed tomography [FDGBL] for radiation therapy planning and FLT-PET [FLTBL]), week 2 (FDGwk2and FLTwk2), and week 4 (FDGwk4and FLTwk4) of chemoradiation therapy. Tumor responses were categorized as complete or partial responses or stable or progressive disease (SD, PD) using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer criteria. Associations between response, OS, and PFS were analyzed with univariate Cox regressions and plotted using Kaplan-Meier curves.RESULTS: Between 2009 and 2013, 60 patients were recruited. Thirty-seven (62%) were male, and the median age was 66\xc2\xa0years (range, 31-86\xc2\xa0years). Two-year OS and PFS were 0.51 and 0.26, respectively. Unexpectedly, SD on FLTwk2compared with complete response/partial response was associated with longer OS (hazard ratio [95% confidence interval] 2.01 [0.87-4.65], P=.082) and PFS (2.01 [0.92-4.36], P=.061). Weeks 2 and 4 FDG PET/CT were not significantly associated with survival. Study scans provided additional information to FDGBLin 21 patients (35%). Distant metastases detected in 3 patients on FLTBLand in 2 patients on FDG/FLTwk2changed treatment intent from curative to palliative. Locoregional progression during radiation therapy was observed in 5 (8%) patients, prompting larger radiation therapy fields.CONCLUSIONS: Stable uptake of18F-FLT at week 2 was paradoxically associated with longer OS and PFS. This suggests that suppression of tumor cell proliferation may protect against radiation-induced tumor cell killing. Baseline FLT, FLTwk2, and FDGwk2detected rapid distant and locoregional progression in 10 patients (17%), prompting changes in management. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Carboplatin#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Cell Proliferation#Chemoradiotherapy#Cisplatin#Etoposide#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Radiopharmaceuticals#Survival Analysis#Thymidine'
b'Triple-negative breast cancer is a kind of breast cancer with poor prognosis and special biological behavior, which lacked endocrine therapy and targeted therapy. We investigate the effect of human APE1 (apurinic/apyrimidyl endonuclease 1), a rate-limiting enzyme of base excision repair, on the prognosis in triple-negative breast cancer and drug sensitivity of olaparib. The expression of APE1 was detected by immunohistochemistry in the triple-negative breast cancer tissues and its effect on survival of triple-negative breast cancer patients was followed. To find whether APE1 effect the drug sensitivity in triple-negative breast cancer cells, the APE1-knockout HCC1937 cell line (triple-negative breast cancer cell line) was established by CRISPR/Cas9 system. Then, we use the wild-type and knockout one to test the drug sensitivity of olaparib. The expression of APE1 in triple-negative breast cancer tissues was significantly higher than that in the adjacent tissues (85.6% vs 14.4%) and its expression was related to tumor size (p<0.05). We also found that it is an independent prognostic factor in patients with triple-negative breast cancer (overall survival, p = 0.01). In vitro assay, the half maximal inhibitory concentration of olaparib in HCC1937-APE1-KO was significantly increased (17.22 vs 91.85 \xce\xbcM) compared to the wild type. The growth curve showed that olaparib had a stronger lethality on HCC1937 compared to HCC1937- APE1-KO (p<0.05 on day 3). HCC1937 resulted in more mitotic G2/M arrest and increased apoptosis rate after treatment with 40 \xce\xbcM of olaparib, while HCC1937-APE1-KO did not change significantly. When HCC1937 was treated with different concentrations of olaparib, it was found that APE1 expression decreased more significantly at 15 \xce\xbcM of olaparib was. In HCC1937-APE1-KO, the expression of endogenous poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 was also less than that of HCC1937. These results suggested that the expression of APE1 was an important basis for the maintenance of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1, and the deletion of APE1 may be related to the resistance of olaparib. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#DNA-(Apurinic or Apyrimidinic Site) Lyase#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Flow Cytometry#Gene Knockout Techniques#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Middle Aged#Phthalazines#Piperazines#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#Tissue Array Analysis#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms'
b"Before the 2010 devastating earthquake and cholera outbreak, Haiti's public health laboratory systems were weak and services were limited. There was no national laboratory strategic plan and only minimal coordination across the laboratory network. Laboratory capacity was further weakened by the destruction of over 25 laboratories and testing sites at the departmental and peripheral levels and the loss of life among the laboratory health-care workers. However, since 2010, tremendous progress has been made in building stronger laboratory infrastructure and training a qualified public health laboratory workforce across the country, allowing for decentralization of access to quality-assured services. Major achievements include development and implementation of a national laboratory strategic plan with a formalized and strengthened laboratory network; introduction of automation of testing to ensure better quality of results and diversify the menu of tests to effectively respond to outbreaks; expansion of molecular testing for tuberculosis, human immunodeficiency virus, malaria, diarrheal and respiratory diseases; establishment of laboratory-based surveillance of epidemic-prone diseases; and improvement of the overall quality of testing. Nonetheless, the progress and gains made remain fragile and require the full ownership and continuous investment from the Haitian government to sustain these successes and achievements. labels: #Cholera#Clinical Laboratory Services#Disasters#Dysentery#Earthquakes#Epidemics#HIV Infections#Haiti#Humans#Laboratories#Malaria#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Public Health#Tuberculosis"
b'Consumption of drinking water from private vendors has increased considerably in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in recent decades. A major type of vendor is private kiosks, advertising reverse osmosis-treated water for sale by volume. To describe the scale and geographical distribution of private kiosks in metropolitan Port-au-Prince, an inventory of private kiosks was conducted from July to August 2013. Coordinates of kiosks were recorded with global positioning system units and a brief questionnaire was administered with the operator to document key kiosk characteristics. To assess the quality of water originating from private kiosks, water quality analyses were also conducted on a sample of those inventoried as well as from the major provider company sites. The parameters tested wereEscherichia coli, free chlorine residual, pH, turbidity, and total dissolved solids. More than 1,300 kiosks were inventoried, the majority of which were franchises of four large provider companies. Approximately half of kiosks reported opening within 12 months of the date of the inventory. The kiosk treatment chain and sales price was consistent among a majority of the kiosks. Of the 757 kiosks sampled for water quality, 90.9% of samples met World Health Organization (WHO) microbiological guideline at the point of sale for nondetectableE. coliin a 100-mL sample. Of the eight provider company sites tested, all samples met the WHO microbiological guideline. Because of the increasing role of the private sector in drinking water provision in Port-au-Prince and elsewhere in Haiti, this assessment was an important first step for government regulation of this sector. labels: #Chlorine#Commerce#Disasters#Drinking Water#Earthquakes#Escherichia coli#Haiti#Humans#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Private Sector#Water Quality'
b'Following the 2010 earthquake, Haiti was at heightened risk for vaccine-preventable diseases (VPDs) outbreaks due to the exacerbation of long-standing gaps in the vaccination program and subsequent risk of VPD importation from other countries. Therefore, partners supported the Haitian Ministry of Health and Population to improve vaccination services and VPD surveillance. During 2010-2016, three polio, measles, and rubella vaccination campaigns were implemented, achieving a coverage>90% among children and maintaining Haiti free of those VPDs. Furthermore, Haiti is on course to eliminate maternal and neonatal tetanus, with 70% of communes achieving tetanus vaccine two-dose coverage>80% among women of childbearing age. In addition, the vaccine cold chain storage capacity increased by 91% at the central level and 285% at the department level, enabling the introduction of three new vaccines (pentavalent, rotavirus, and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines) that could prevent an estimated 5,227 deaths annually. Haiti moved from the fourth worst performing country in the Americas in 2012 to the sixth best performing country in 2015 for adequate investigation of suspected measles/rubella cases. Sentinel surveillance sites for rotavirus diarrhea and meningococcal meningitis were established to estimate baseline rates of those diseases prior to vaccine introduction and to evaluate the impact of vaccination in the future. In conclusion, Haiti significantly improved vaccination services and VPD surveillance. However, high dependence on external funding and competing vaccination program priorities are potential threats to sustaining the improvements achieved thus far. Political commitment and favorable economic and legal environments are needed to maintain these gains. labels: #Drug Storage#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Humans#Immunization Programs#Measles#Measles Vaccine#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Pneumococcal Infections#Pneumococcal Vaccines#Poliomyelitis#Poliovirus Vaccines#Rotavirus Infections#Rotavirus Vaccines#Rubella#Rubella Vaccine#Sentinel Surveillance#Tetanus#Tetanus Toxoid'
b'Monitoring retention of people living with HIV (PLHIV) in the HIV care and treatment cascade is essential to guide program strategy and evaluate progress toward globally-endorsed 90-90-90 targets (i.e., 90% of PLHIV diagnosed, 81% on sustained antiretroviral therapy (ART), and 73% virally suppressed). We describe national retention from diagnosis throughout the cascade for patients receiving HIV services in Haiti during 1985-2015, with a focus on those receiving HIV services during 2008-2015. Among the 266,256 newly diagnosed PLHIV during 1985-2015, 49% were linked-to-care, 30% started ART, and 18% were retained on ART by the time of database closure. Similarly, among the 192,187 newly diagnosed HIV-positive patients during 2008-2015, 50% were linked to care, 31% started ART, and 19% were retained on ART by the time of database closure. Most patients (90-92%) at all cascade steps were adults (\xe2\x89\xa5 15 years old), among whom the majority (60-61%) were female. During 2008-2015, outcomes varied significantly across 42 administrative districts (arrondissements) of residence; cumulative linkage-to-care ranged from 23% to 69%, cumulative ART initiation among care enrollees ranged from 2% to 80%, and cumulative ART retention among ART enrollees ranged from 30% to 88%. Compared with adults, children had lower cumulative incidence of ART initiation among care enrollees (64% versus 47%) and lower cumulative retention among ART enrollees (64% versus 50%). Cumulative linkage-to-care was low and should be prioritized for improvement. Variations in outcomes by arrondissement and between adults and children require further investigation and programmatic response. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anti-HIV Agents#Antiretroviral Therapy, Highly Active#CD4 Lymphocyte Count#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Management#Female#HIV Infections#Haiti#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Patient Compliance#Young Adult'
b"Emergencies can often directly impact health systems of an affected region or country, especially in resource-constrained areas. Health system recovery following an emergency is a complex and dynamic process. Health system recovery efforts have often been structured around the World Health Organization's health systems building blocks as demonstrated by the Post-Disaster Needs Assessment. Although this structure is valuable and well known, it can overlook the intricacies of public health systems. We retrospectively examine public health systems recovery, a subset of the larger health system, following the 2010 Haiti earthquake and cholera outbreak, through the lens of the 10 essential public health services. This framework illustrates the comprehensive nature of and helps categorize the activities necessary for a well-functioning public health system and can complement other assessments. Outlining the features of a public health system for recovery in structured manner can also help lay the foundation for sustainable long-term development leading to a more robust and resilient health system. labels: #Cholera#Delivery of Health Care#Disaster Planning#Disasters#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Emergencies#Haiti#Humans#Public Health#Public Health Systems Research#Retrospective Studies#World Health Organization"
b'Haiti is committed to malaria elimination by 2020. Following a 2010 earthquake and cholera epidemic, Haiti capitalized on investments in its health system to refocus on malaria elimination. Efforts, including expanding diagnostics, ensuring efficacy of standard treatments, building institutional capacity, and strengthening surveillance were undertaken to complement the broad health system strengthening activities. These efforts led to the adoption and scale-up of malaria rapid diagnostic tests as a diagnostic modality. In addition, drug-resistant monitoring has been established in the country, along with the development of molecular testing capacity for thePlasmodium falciparumparasite at the National Public Health Laboratory. The development and piloting of surveillance activities to include an enhanced community-based approach for testing and treatment of patients has increased the ability of the Ministry of Health to map foci of transmission and respond promptly to outbreaks. The reinforcement of evidence-based approaches coupled with strong collaboration among the Ministry of Health and partners has demonstrated that malaria elimination by 2020 is a realistic prospect. labels: #Antimalarials#Chloroquine#Cholera#Disasters#Disease Eradication#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Health Priorities#Humans#Malaria, Falciparum#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Public Health Surveillance'
b"Haiti's health system has faced many challenges over the years, with competing health priorities in the context of chronic financial and human resource limitations. As a result, the existing notifiable disease surveillance system was unable to provide the most basic epidemiologic data for public health decision-making and action. In the wake of the January 2010 earthquake, the Haitian Ministry of Public Health and Population collaborated with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Pan American Health Organization, and other local and international partners to implement a functional national surveillance system. More than 7 years later, it is important to take the opportunity to reflect on progress made on surveillance and response in Haiti, including disease detection, reporting, outbreak investigation, and response. The national epidemiologic surveillance network that started with 51 sites in 2010 has been expanded to 357 sites as of December 2015. Disease outbreaks identified via the surveillance system, or other surveillance approaches, are investigated by epidemiologists trained by the Ministry of Health's Field Epidemiology Training Program. Other related surveillance modules have been developed on the same model and electronic platform, allowing the country to document the impact of interventions, track progress, and monitor health problems. Sustainability remains the greatest challenge since most of the funding for surveillance come from external sources. labels: #Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Disasters#Disease Notification#Disease Outbreaks#Earthquakes#Epidemiological Monitoring#Haiti#Health Priorities#Humans#International Cooperation#Public Health#United States"
b"The devastating 2010 cholera epidemic in Haiti prompted the government to introduce oral cholera vaccine (OCV) in two high-risk areas of Haiti. We evaluated the direct costs associated with the government's first vaccine campaign implemented in August-September 2013. We analyzed data for major cost categories and assessed the efficiency of available campaign resources to vaccinate the target population. For a target population of 107,906 persons, campaign costs totaled $624,000 and 215,295 OCV doses were dispensed. The total vaccine and operational cost was $2.90 per dose; vaccine alone cost $1.85 per dose, vaccine delivery and administration $0.70 per dose, and vaccine storage and transport $0.35 per dose. Resources were greater than needed-our analyses suggested that approximately 2.5-6 times as many persons could have been vaccinated during this campaign without increasing the resources allocated for vaccine delivery and administration. These results can inform future OCV campaigns in Haiti. labels: #Administration, Oral#Cholera#Cholera Vaccines#Costs and Cost Analysis#Disease Outbreaks#Government Programs#Haiti#Humans#Immunization Programs"
b"Haiti, a Caribbean country of 10.5 million people, is estimated to have the highest burden of canine-mediated human rabies deaths in the Western Hemisphere, and one of the highest rates of human rabies deaths in the world. Haiti is also the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and has numerous economic and health priorities that compete for rabies-control resources. As a result, primary rabies-control actions, including canine vaccination programs, surveillance systems for human and animal rabies, and appropriate postbite treatment, have not been fully implemented at a national scale. After the 2010 earthquake that further hindered the development of public health program infrastructure and services, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention worked with the Ministry of Public Health and Population and key health development partners (including the Pan-American Health Organization) to provide technical expertise and funding for general disease surveillance systems, laboratory capacity, and selected disease control programs; including rabies. In 2011, a cross-ministerial rabies consortium was convened with participation from multiple international rabies experts to develop a strategy for successful rabies control in Haiti. The consortium focused on seven pillars: 1) enhancement of laboratory diagnostic capacity, 2) development of comprehensive animal surveillance system, 3) development of comprehensive human rabies surveillance system, 4) educational outreach, 5) sustainable human rabies biologics supply, 6) achievement of sustained canine vaccination rates of \xe2\x89\xa5 70%, and 7) finalization of a national rabies control strategy. From 2010 until 2015, Haiti has seen improvements in the program infrastructure for canine rabies control. The greatest improvements were seen in the area of animal rabies surveillance, in support of which an internationally recognized rabies laboratory was developed thereby leading to an 18-fold increase in the detection of rabid animals. Canine rabies vaccination practices also improved, from a 2010 level of approximately 12% to a 2015 dog population coverage level estimated to be 45%. Rabies vaccine coverage is still below the goal of 70%, however, the positive trend is encouraging. Gaps exist in the capacity to conduct national surveillance for human rabies cases and access to human rabies vaccine is lacking in many parts of the country. However, control has improved over the past 5 years as a result of the efforts of Haiti's health and agriculture sectors with assistance from multiple international organizations. Haiti is well situated to eliminate canine-mediated human rabies deaths in the near future and should serve as a great example to many developing countries struggling with similar barriers and limitations. labels: #Animals#Developing Countries#Disease Eradication#Disease Vectors#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Haiti#Humans#International Cooperation#Public Health Surveillance#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines"
b'Research provides the essential foundation of disease elimination programs, including the global program to eliminate lymphatic filariasis (GPELF). The development and validation of new diagnostic tools and intervention strategies, critical steps in the evolution of GPELF, required a global effort. Lymphatic filariasis research in Haiti involved many partners and was directly linked to the development of the national elimination program and to the success achieved to date. Ongoing research efforts involving many partners will continue to be important in resolving the challenges faced by the program today in its final efforts to achieve elimination. labels: #Diethylcarbamazine#Disease Eradication#Elephantiasis, Filarial#Filaricides#Haiti#Humans#Lymphedema'
b'Since the 2010 earthquake, tuberculosis (TB) control has been a major priority for health sector response and recovery efforts in Haiti. The goal of this study was to analyze trends in TB case notification in Haiti from the aggregate data reported by the National TB Control Program to understand the effects of such efforts. A total of 95,745 TB patients were registered for treatment in Haiti between 2010 and 2015. Three regions, the West, Artibonite, and North departments accounted for 68% of the TB cases notified during the period. Patients in the 15-34 age groups represented 53% (50,560) of all cases. Case notification rates of all forms of TB increased from 142.7/100,000 in 2010 to 153.4 in 2015, peaking at 163.4 cases/100,000 in 2013. Case notification for smear-positive pulmonary TB increased from 85.5 cases/100,000 to 105.7 cases/100,000, whereas treatment success rates remained stable at 79-80% during the period. Active TB case finding efforts in high-risk communities and the introduction of new diagnostics have contributed to increasing TB case notification trends in Haiti from 2010 to 2015. Targeted interventions and novel strategies are being implemented to reach high-risk populations and underserved communities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antitubercular Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Community Health Workers#Directly Observed Therapy#Disease Notification#Female#Haiti#Health Facilities#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Middle Aged#Treatment Outcome#Tuberculosis#Young Adult'
b'The objective of the study was to address some important questions related to prostate cancer treatments and survivorship. One of possibility to improve the survival probability of prostate cancer patients is to improve predictive strategies. Therefore in this article was created short-term multistep ahead predictive model for survival probability prediction of prostate cancer patients. Neuro-fuzzy model was used to select the most important inputs for the predictive model. As the inputs, current and time lagged variables were used. The results could be useful for simplification of predictive models to avoid multiple inputs. labels: #Decision Support Techniques#Fuzzy Logic#Humans#Male#Models, Statistical#Predictive Value of Tests#Probability#Prostatic Neoplasms#Risk Factors#Survival Analysis#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'The oncoplastic approach to breast conservation therapy has become a useful and popular option for women with breast cancer who wish to preserve their breast. The initial driving forces were aimed at minimizing the potential for a breast conservation therapy deformity; however, various other benefits have been identified that include broadening the indications for breast conservation therapy in some patients and improved margin control. The various techniques can be categorized into glandular rearrangement techniques such as breast reductions usually in patients with larger breasts or flap reconstruction such as the latissimus dorsi muscle usually in patients with smaller breasts. As the acceptance continues to increase, we are starting to see more outcomes evidence in terms of patient satisfaction, quality of life, complications, and recurrence, to further support the safety and efficacy of the oncoplastic approach. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Mammaplasty#Mastectomy, Segmental#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Patient Satisfaction#Quality of Life'
b"BACKGROUND: The care of kidney transplant recipients involves a balance between maximizing graft survival and serious adverse outcomes. This study aimed to quantify patients' preferences and trade-offs for important outcomes after transplantation.METHODS: A best-worst scaling survey, analyzed by multinomial-logit models, was used to calculate normalized preference scores (0, best; 1, worst), for varying years of graft duration and risk of dying before graft failure, cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, infection, anxiety/depression, diarrhoea/nausea, and weight gain. Willingness to trade years of graft survival to minimize the risk of adverse outcomes was calculated.RESULTS: Ninety-three transplant recipients from 2 Australian transplant units and an on-line panel (aged 18-69 years (mean time since transplantation, 7 years) completed the survey. Graft loss at 1 year was the least desirable outcome (mean preference value, 0.0:95% confidence intervals, -0.05 to 0.05) and worse than a 100% risk of dying before graft loss (0.17: 0.12-0.23). Graft duration of 5 years had the same preference scores (ie, as bad) as the maximum risk of all adverse outcomes including a 100% risk of dying before graft failure. To achieve zero risk of cancer, dying, and cardiovascular disease participants were only willing to trade 3.1(2.1 to 4.7), 1.7(1.1 to 2.5), and 1.2(0.8 to 1.8) years of graft survival, respectively, and less than 1 year for all other outcomes.CONCLUSIONS: Transplant recipients regarded graft loss as worse than death and showed minimal willingness to trade a reduction in this outcome with an improvement in any other outcome. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cause of Death#Graft Rejection#Graft Survival#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Kidney Transplantation#Logistic Models#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasms#New South Wales#Odds Ratio#Patient Preference#Postoperative Complications#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Many strategies regarding timing of native nephrectomies exist for patients with symptomatic polycystic kidney disease (PCKD).METHODS: This is a single-center, retrospective study of 594 adults with PCKD who had renal transplants from 1994 to 2014. Three groups were analyzed: renal transplant-only recipients (tx alone), recipients of simultaneous bilateral nephrectomies and transplant (simultaneous), and recipients with pretransplant bilateral nephrectomies (pre). The primary outcome was graft survival. Secondary outcomes included postoperative complications.RESULTS: Five hundred sixty-five adults with PCKD received kidney transplants (303 tx alone, 161 simultaneous, 27 pre). Ten-year posttransplant graft survival was 68.5%, 63.6%, and 65.7% for tx alone, simultaneous, and precohorts (P = 0.86). No statistically significant differences were observed in rates of postoperative ileus, deep vein thrombosis, small bowel obstruction, urinary stricture, urine leak, hernia formation, and delayed graft function. More wound complications were seen in prepatients (25.9% vs 11.1% tx alone, 5.1% simultaneous; P = 0.03), whereas simultaneous patients had a lower incidence of lymphocele (1.3% vs 11.1% pre, 10.2% tx-alone; P = 0.002). Importantly, simultaneous patients had more renal vascular thromboses (4.4% vs 1.3% tx alone, 0% pre; P = 0.04). 16.3% of renal transplant alone patients required nephrectomy at 10 years follow-up. Twenty-nine patients were referred for transplant having had nephrectomies and were ultimately not transplanted. In 4 of these patients who had data available for analysis, the mean panel-reactive antibody significantly increased after nephrectomy was performed.CONCLUSIONS: Simultaneous bilateral nephrectomy can be safely performed at the time of renal transplantation, however, carries a significantly increased risk of renal vascular thrombosis. labels: #Female#Graft Survival#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Nephrectomy#Polycystic Kidney Diseases#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Time-to-Treatment#Treatment Outcome#Wisconsin'
b"Trial of labor after cesarean delivery (TOLAC) refers to a planned attempt to deliver vaginally by a woman who has had a previous cesarean delivery, regardless of the outcome. This method provides women who desire a vaginal delivery the possibility of achieving that goal-a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC). In addition to fulfilling a patient's preference for vaginal delivery, at an individual level, VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies as well as a decrease in the overall cesarean delivery rate at the population level (1-3). However, although TOLAC is appropriate for many women, several factors increase the likelihood of a failed trial of labor, which in turn is associated with increased maternal and perinatal morbidity when compared with a successful trial of labor (ie, VBAC) and elective repeat cesarean delivery (4-6). Therefore, assessing the likelihood of VBAC as well as the individual risks is important when determining who is an appropriate candidate for TOLAC. Thus, the purpose of this document is to review the risks and benefits of TOLAC in various clinical situations and to provide practical guidelines for counseling and management of patients who will attempt to give birth vaginally after a previous cesarean delivery. labels: #Female#Humans#Pregnancy#Trial of Labor#Vaginal Birth after Cesarean"
b'Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common, benign condition in women. For many women it can cause vaginal bulge and pressure, voiding dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, which may adversely affect qual-ity of life. Women in the United States have a 13% lifetime risk of undergoing surgery for POP (1). Although POP can occur in younger women, the peak incidence of POP symptoms is in women aged 70-79 years (2). Given the aging population in the United States, it is anticipated that by 2050 the number of women experiencing POP will increase by approximately 50% (3). The purpose of this joint document of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Urogynecologic Society is to review information on the current understanding of POP in women and to outline guidelines for diagnosis and management that are consistent with the best available scientific evidence. labels: #Female#Humans#Pelvic Organ Prolapse'
b'Intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants, also called long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARC), are the most effective reversible contraceptive methods. The major advantage of LARC compared with other reversible contraceptive methods is that they do not require ongoing effort on the part of the patient for long-term and effective use. In addition, after the device is removed, the return of fertility is rapid (1, 2). The purpose of this Practice Bulletin is to provide information for appropriate patient selection and evidence-based recommendations for LARC initiation and management. The management of clinical challenges associated with LARC use is beyond the scope of this document and is addressed in Committee Opinion No. 672, Clinical Challenges of Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptive Methods (3). labels: #Contraceptive Agents, Female#Drug Implants#Female#Humans#Intrauterine Devices'
b"With the increased emphasis on patient-driven health care and readily available access to patients through the internet and media, many genetic testing companies have begun to market directly to consumers. Direct-to-consumer genetic testing raises unique concerns and considerations, including limited knowledge among patients and health care providers of available genetic tests, difficulty in interpretation of genetic test results, lack of oversight of companies that offer genetic testing, and issues of privacy and confidentiality. When undergoing any direct-to-consumer genetic testing, the consumer should be apprised of risk from screening or susceptibility test results that can neither prove nor eliminate disease potential. Because ordering an appropriate genetic test and interpretation of genetic test results are complex, an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider with knowledge of genetics should be involved in ordering and interpreting the results of any genetic test with medical implications. When an individual presents test results to a health care provider from a direct-to-consumer genomic test that putatively assesses the risk of specific diseases, the patient should be referred to an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider who is skilled in risk assessment for the diseases of interest and interpretation of genetic testing results in the context of the individual's relevant medical and family history. Because of these considerations and in view of the fact that the interpretation of the results requires specific training and medical knowledge, direct-to-consumer genetic testing should be discouraged because of the potential harm of a misinterpreted or inaccurate result. labels: #Direct-To-Consumer Screening and Testing#Genetic Testing#Humans"
b'Vaginal seeding refers to the practice of inoculating a cotton gauze or a cotton swab with vaginal fluids to transfer the vaginal flora to the mouth, nose, or skin of a newborn infant. The intended purpose of vaginal seeding is to transfer maternal vaginal bacteria to the newborn. As the increase in the frequency of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders mirrors the increase in the rate of cesarean delivery, the theory of vaginal seeding is to allow for proper colonization of the fetal gut and, therefore, reduce the subsequent risk of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders. At this time, vaginal seeding should not be performed outside the context of an institutional review board-approved research protocol until adequate data regarding the safety and benefit of the process become available. labels: #Biological Therapy#Dysbiosis#Humans#Infant, Newborn'
b'Pelvic organ prolapse (POP) is a common, benign condition in women. For many women it can cause vaginal bulge and pressure, voiding dysfunction, defecatory dysfunction, and sexual dysfunction, which may adversely affect qual-ity of life. Women in the United States have a 13% lifetime risk of undergoing surgery for POP (1). Although POP can occur in younger women, the peak incidence of POP symptoms is in women aged 70-79 years (2). Given the aging population in the United States, it is anticipated that by 2050 the number of women experiencing POP will increase by approximately 50% (3). The purpose of this joint document of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the American Urogynecologic Society is to review information on the current understanding of POP in women and to outline guidelines for diagnosis and management that are consistent with the best available scientific evidence. labels: #Female#Gynecologic Surgical Procedures#Humans#Pelvic Organ Prolapse#Pessaries'
b"Trial of labor after cesarean delivery (TOLAC) refers to a planned attempt to deliver vaginally by a woman who has had a previous cesarean delivery, regardless of the outcome. This method provides women who desire a vaginal delivery the possibility of achieving that goal-a vaginal birth after cesarean delivery (VBAC). In addition to fulfilling a patient's preference for vaginal delivery, at an individual level, VBAC is associated with decreased maternal morbidity and a decreased risk of complications in future pregnancies as well as a decrease in the overall cesarean delivery rate at the population level (1-3). However, although TOLAC is appropriate for many women, several factors increase the likelihood of a failed trial of labor, which in turn is associated with increased maternal and perinatal morbidity when compared with a successful trial of labor (ie, VBAC) and elective repeat cesarean delivery (4-6). Therefore, assessing the likelihood of VBAC as well as the individual risks is important when determining who is an appropriate candidate for TOLAC. Thus, the purpose of this document is to review the risks and benefits of TOLAC in various clinical situations and to provide practical guidelines for counseling and management of patients who will attempt to give birth vaginally after a previous cesarean delivery. labels: #Contraindications#Female#Humans#Misoprostol#Oxytocics#Pregnancy#Trial of Labor#Vaginal Birth after Cesarean"
b'Intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants, also called long-acting reversible contraceptives (LARC), are the most effective reversible contraceptive methods. The major advantage of LARC compared with other reversible contraceptive methods is that they do not require ongoing effort on the part of the patient for long-term and effective use. In addition, after the device is removed, the return of fertility is rapid (1, 2). The purpose of this Practice Bulletin is to provide information for appropriate patient selection and evidence-based recommendations for LARC initiation and management. The management of clinical challenges associated with LARC use is beyond the scope of this document and is addressed in Committee Opinion No. 672, Clinical Challenges of Long-Acting Reversible Contraceptive Methods (3). labels: #Contraceptive Agents, Female#Drug Implants#Female#Humans#Intrauterine Devices'
b"With the increased emphasis on patient-driven health care and readily available access to patients through the internet and media, many genetic testing companies have begun to market directly to consumers. Direct-to-consumer genetic testing raises unique concerns and considerations, including limited knowledge among patients and health care providers of available genetic tests, difficulty in interpretation of genetic test results, lack of oversight of companies that offer genetic testing, and issues of privacy and confidentiality. When undergoing any direct-to-consumer genetic testing, the consumer should be apprised of risk from screening or susceptibility test results that can neither prove nor eliminate disease potential. Because ordering an appropriate genetic test and interpretation of genetic test results are complex, an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider with knowledge of genetics should be involved in ordering and interpreting the results of any genetic test with medical implications. When an individual presents test results to a health care provider from a direct-to-consumer genomic test that putatively assesses the risk of specific diseases, the patient should be referred to an obstetrician-gynecologist or other health care provider who is skilled in risk assessment for the diseases of interest and interpretation of genetic testing results in the context of the individual's relevant medical and family history. Because of these considerations and in view of the fact that the interpretation of the results requires specific training and medical knowledge, direct-to-consumer genetic testing should be discouraged because of the potential harm of a misinterpreted or inaccurate result. labels: #Direct-To-Consumer Screening and Testing#Genetic Testing#Humans"
b'Vaginal seeding refers to the practice of inoculating a cotton gauze or a cotton swab with vaginal fluids to transfer the vaginal flora to the mouth, nose, or skin of a newborn infant. The intended purpose of vaginal seeding is to transfer maternal vaginal bacteria to the newborn. As the increase in the frequency of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders mirrors the increase in the rate of cesarean delivery, the theory of vaginal seeding is to allow for proper colonization of the fetal gut and, therefore, reduce the subsequent risk of asthma, atopic disease, and immune disorders. At this time, vaginal seeding should not be performed outside the context of an institutional review board-approved research protocol until adequate data regarding the safety and benefit of the process become available. labels: #Asthma#Biological Therapy#Cesarean Section#Dysbiosis#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Microbiota#Pregnancy#Vagina'
b"BACKGROUND: Men are a growing patient population in aesthetic medicine and are increasingly seeking minimally invasive cosmetic procedures.OBJECTIVE: To examine differences in the timing of facial aging and in the prevalence of preventive facial aging behaviors in men by race/ethnicity.METHODS: Men aged 18 to 75 years in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia rated their features using photonumeric rating scales for 10 facial aging characteristics. Impact of race/ethnicity (Caucasian, black, Asian, Hispanic) on severity of each feature was assessed. Subjects also reported the frequency of dermatologic facial product use.RESULTS: The study included 819 men. Glabellar lines, crow's feet lines, and nasolabial folds showed the greatest change with age. Caucasian men reported more severe signs of aging and earlier onset, by 10 to 20 years, compared with Asian, Hispanic, and, particularly, black men. In all racial/ethnic groups, most men did not regularly engage in basic, antiaging preventive behaviors, such as use of sunscreen.CONCLUSION: Findings from this study conducted in a globally diverse sample may guide clinical discussions with men about the prevention and treatment of signs of facial aging, to help men of all races/ethnicities achieve their desired aesthetic outcomes. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Continental Population Groups#Cross-Sectional Studies#Esthetics#Face#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Photography#Skin Aging#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: Males are increasingly seeking minimally invasive cosmetic procedures such as botulinum toxin injection. However, few studies have specifically examined the efficacy of such procedures among men.OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of incobotulinumtoxinA for treating glabellar frown lines (GFLs) in men.METHODS: Three incobotulinumtoxinA studies were included in post hoc analyses of responder rates: 2 pivotal Phase 3 US registration studies for GFLs (n = 55 males in a pooled analysis) and a European pivotal Phase 3 study for upper facial lines (UFLs; n = 21 males).RESULTS: In the pooled analysis of Phase 3 GFL studies, 55.9% of males and 81.4% of females were responders on the Facial Wrinkle Scale (FWS) at 30 days. Similarly, 54.5% and 88.0% of males and females, respectively, treated for GFLs in the upper facial line study were responders on the Merz Aesthetics Scales (MAS) at 30 days. Lower proportions of male responders on the Facial Wrinkle Scale /Merz Aesthetics Scales were consistent with results from onabotulinumtoxinA and abobotulinumtoxinA GFL studies.CONCLUSION: Compared with females, males demonstrate lower response rates on wrinkle severity scales in studies on all 3 available botulinum toxins. Variations in treatment response are potentially associated with key male anatomic differences (e.g., muscle mass). Results emphasize the need for customized treatment plans. labels: #Botulinum Toxins, Type A#Double-Blind Method#Female#Forehead#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neuromuscular Agents#Prospective Studies#Skin Aging#Treatment Outcome'
b'The Research in Medical Education (RIME) Program Planning Committee is committed to advancing scholarship in and promoting dialogue about the critical issues of racism and bias in health professions education (HPE). From the call for studies focused on underrepresented learners and faculty in medicine to the invited 2016 RIME plenary address by Dr. Camara Jones, the committee strongly believes that dismantling racism is critical to the future of HPE.The evidence is glaring: Dramatic racial and ethnic health disparities persist in the United States, people of color remain deeply underrepresented in medical school and academic health systems as faculty, learner experiences across the medical education continuum are fraught with bias, and current approaches to teaching perpetuate stereotypes and insufficiently challenge structural inequities. To achieve racial justice in HPE, academic medicine must commit to leveraging positions of influence and contributing from these positions. In this Commentary, the authors consider three roles (educator, faculty developer, and researcher) represented by the community of scholars and pose potential research questions as well as suggestions for advancing educational research relevant to eliminating racism and bias in HPE. labels: #Academic Medical Centers#Curriculum#Education, Medical#Faculty, Medical#Health Occupations#Humans#Racism#Research Personnel'
b'PURPOSE: To examine validity evidence of local graduation competency examination scores from seven medical schools using shared cases and to provide rater training protocols and guidelines for scoring patient notes (PNs).METHOD: Between May and August 2016, clinical cases were developed, shared, and administered across seven medical schools (990 students participated). Raters were calibrated using training protocols, and guidelines were developed collaboratively across sites to standardize scoring. Data included scores from standardized patient encounters for history taking, physical examination, and PNs. Descriptive statistics were used to examine scores from the different assessment components. Generalizability studies (G-studies) using variance components were conducted to estimate reliability for composite scores.RESULTS: Validity evidence was collected for response process (rater perception), internal structure (variance components, reliability), relations to other variables (interassessment correlations), and consequences (composite score). Student performance varied by case and task. In the PNs, justification of differential diagnosis was the most discriminating task. G-studies showed that schools accounted for less than 1% of total variance; however, for the PNs, there were differences in scores for varying cases and tasks across schools, indicating a school effect. Composite score reliability was maximized when the PN was weighted between 30% and 40%. Raters preferred using case-specific scoring guidelines with clear point-scoring systems.CONCLUSIONS: This multisite study presents validity evidence for PN scores based on scoring rubric and case-specific scoring guidelines that offer rigor and feedback for learners. Variability in PN scores across participating sites may signal different approaches to teaching clinical reasoning among medical schools. labels: #Clinical Competence#Documentation#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Humans#Medical History Taking#Patient Simulation#Physical Examination#Reproducibility of Results#Schools, Medical'
b"PURPOSE: The Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine (HNSOM) uses an essay-based assessment system. Recognizing the emphasis graduate medical education places on the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step exams, the authors developed a method to predict students at risk for lower performance on USMLE Step 1.METHOD: Beginning with the inaugural class (2015), HNSOM administered National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME) Customized Assessment Service (CAS) examinations as formative assessment at the end of each integrated course in the first two years of medical school. Using preadmission data, the first two courses in the educational program, and NBME score deviation from the national test takers' mean, a statistical model was built to predict students who scored below the Step 1 national mean.RESULTS: A regression equation using the highest Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) score and NBME score deviation predicted student Step 1 scores. The MCAT alone accounted for 21% of the variance. Adding the NBME score deviation from the first and second courses increased the variance to 40% and 50%, respectively. Adding NBME exams from later courses increased the variance to 52% and 64% by the end of years one and two, respectively. Cross-validation demonstrated the model successfully predicted 63% of at-risk students by the end of the fifth month of medical school.CONCLUSIONS: The model identified students at risk for lower performance on Step 1 using the NBME CAS. This model is applicable to schools reforming their curriculum delivery and assessment programs toward an integrated model. labels: #Adult#Clinical Competence#College Admission Test#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#Humans#Licensure, Medical#Male#Regression Analysis#Risk Assessment#Schools, Medical#United States"
b"PURPOSE: Compare the effect of personalized feedback (PF) vs. task demonstration (TD), both delivered via video, on laparoscopic knot-tying skills and perceived workload; and evaluate the effect of repeated practice.METHOD: General surgery interns and research fellows completed four repetitions of a simulated laparoscopic knot-tying task at one-month intervals. Midway between repetitions, participants received via e-mail either a TD video (demonstration by an expert) or a PF video (video of their own performance with voiceover from a blinded senior surgeon). Each participant received at least one video per format, with sequence randomly assigned. Outcomes included performance scores and NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX) scores. To evaluate the effectiveness of repeated practice, scores from these trainees on a separate delayed retention test were compared against historical controls who did not have scheduled repetitions.RESULTS: Twenty-one trainees completed the randomized study. Mean change in performance scores was significantly greater for those receiving PF (difference = 23.1 of 150 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0, 46.2], P = .05). Perceived workload was also significantly reduced (difference = -3.0 of 20 [95% CI: -5.8, -0.3], P = .04). Compared with historical controls (N = 93), the 21 with scheduled repeated practice had higher scores on the laparoscopic knot-tying assessment two weeks after the final repetition (difference = 1.5 of 10 [95% CI: 0.2, 2.8], P = .02).CONCLUSIONS: Personalized video feedback improves trainees' procedural performance and perceived workload compared with a task demonstration video. Brief monthly practice sessions support skill acquisition and retention. labels: #Clinical Competence#Formative Feedback#General Surgery#Humans#Laparoscopy#Practice (Psychology)#Suture Techniques#Video Recording#Workload"
b"PURPOSE: Capturing either lapses or excellence in behaviors related to medical professionalism is difficult. The authors report a mixed-methods analysis of a novel mobile platform for assessing medical professionalism in a training environment.METHOD: A mobile Web-based platform to facilitate professionalism assessment in a situated clinical setting (Professional Mobile Monitoring of Behaviors [PROMOBES]) was developed. A professionalism framework consisting of six domains (reliability, adaptability, peer relationships, upholding principles, team relationships, and scholarship) encompassing 25 subelements underpins the reporting structure. This pilot study involved 26 faculty supervising 93 medical trainees at two sites from January 12 to August 8, 2016. Notable professionalism behaviors were linked to the framework domains and elements; narrative details about incidences were captured on mobile devices. Surveys gauged the technological functionality and impact of PROMOBES on faculty assessment of professionalism. Qualitative focus groups were employed to elucidate user experience.RESULTS: Although users anticipated PROMOBES's utility would be for reporting lapses in professionalism, 94.7% of reports were for commendation. Comfort assessing professionalism (P = .04) and recognition of the reporting procedures for professionalism-related concerns (P = .01) improved. PROMOBES attained high acceptance ratings. Focus group analysis revealed that the explicit connection to the professionalism framework was powerful; similarly, the near real-time reporting capability, multiple observer inputs, and positive feedback facilitation were strengths.CONCLUSIONS: Making the professionalism framework visible and accessible via a mobile platform significantly strengthens faculty knowledge and behaviors regarding assessment. The strong desire to capture positive behaviors was an unexpected finding. labels: #Adult#Aged#Clinical Clerkship#Education, Medical, Graduate#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Faculty, Medical#Female#Focus Groups#Formative Feedback#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Male#Middle Aged#Mobile Applications#Pediatrics#Pilot Projects#Professional Competence#Professionalism#Qualitative Research#Reproducibility of Results#Students, Medical"
b'PURPOSE: Learning to make decisions under uncertain conditions is a critical component of diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning. This study sought to determine treatment decisions medical students make when presented with different thresholds of diagnostic uncertainty and whether they appropriately adjust diagnostic probabilities with test information.METHOD: Two classes (2015, 2016) of fourth-year students (N = 342) were presented a patient with viral pneumonia and given 10%, 20%, or 50% pretest probabilities of that patient having a superimposed bacterial infection. Students decided to not treat, order a diagnostic test to guide management, or treat without testing based on these probabilities. The 2015 class was provided a posttest probability of 10% or 50% and asked to adjust their initial treatment decision.RESULTS: When given a low (10%) pretest probability, students were less likely to decide to treat (6%) and more likely to decide not to treat (36%). The percentage of students deciding to treat increased as the pretest probability of a superimposed infection increased from 10% to 50%, while the percentage of students not wanting to treat decreased. Interestingly, at 10%, 20%, and 50% pretest probability levels, most students were unable to decide and chose to order another test (57%, 67%, and 64%, respectively). When provided low and high posttest probabilities, students appropriately adjusted their decision making, but 29% to 32% still wanted additional testing.CONCLUSIONS: Students adjusted treatment decisions to reflect different levels of diagnostic uncertainty, but varied considerably in their individual thresholds to make decisions, possibly contributing to unnecessary testing. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Clinical Competence#Clinical Decision-Making#Cohort Studies#Coinfection#Evidence-Based Medicine#Humans#Influenza, Human#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Pneumonia, Viral#Probability#Random Allocation#Students, Medical'
b"PURPOSE: Physicians routinely transition responsibility for patient care to other physicians. When transitions of responsibility occur before the clinical outcome is known, physicians may lose opportunities to learn from the consequences of their decision making. Sometimes curiosity about patients does not end with the transition and physicians continue to follow them. This study explores physicians' motivations to follow up after transitioning responsibilities.METHOD: Using a constructivist grounded theory approach, the authors conducted 18 semistructured interviews in 2016 with internal medicine hospitalist and resident physicians at a single tertiary care academic medical center. Constant comparative methods guided the qualitative analysis, using motivation theories as sensitizing constructs.RESULTS: The authors identified themes that characterized participants' motivations to follow up. Curiosity about patients' outcomes determined whether or not follow-up occurred. Insufficient curiosity about predictable clinical problems resulted in the choice to forgo follow-up. Sufficient curiosity due to clinical uncertainty, personal attachment to patients, and/or concern for patient vulnerability motivated follow-up to fulfill goals of knowledge building and professionalism. The authors interpret these findings through the lenses of expectancy-value (EVT) and self-determination (SDT) theories of motivation.CONCLUSIONS: Participants' curiosity about what happened to their patients motivated them to follow up. EVT may explain how participants made choices in time-pressured work settings. SDT may help interpret how follow-up fulfills needs of relatedness. These findings add to a growing body of literature endorsing learning environments that consider task-value trade-offs and support basic psychological needs of autonomy, competency, and relatedness to motivate learning. labels: #Aftercare#Female#Grounded Theory#Hospitalists#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Male#Medical Staff, Hospital#Motivation#Patient Transfer#Qualitative Research"
b'PURPOSE: Patient continuity, described as the student participating in the provision of comprehensive care of patients over time, may offer particular opportunities for student learning. The aim of this study was to describe how students experience patient continuity and what they learn from it.METHOD: An interpretive phenomenological study was conducted between 2015 and 2016. Seventeen fourth-year medical students were interviewed following a longitudinal clinical placement and asked to describe their experiences of patient continuity and what they learned from each experience. Transcripts were analyzed by iteratively refining and testing codes, using health system definitions of patient continuity as sensitizing concepts to develop descriptive themes.RESULTS: Students described three different forms of patient continuity. Continuity of care, or relational continuity, enabled students to build trusting and professional relationships with their patients. Geographical continuity allowed students to access information about patients from electronic records and their preceptors which allowed students to achieve diagnostic closure and learn to reevaluate their decisions. Students valued the learning that accrued from following challenging patients and addressing challenging decisions over time. Although difficult, these patient continuity experiences led students to critical reflection that was both iterative and deep, leading to intentions for future behavior.CONCLUSIONS: Patient continuity in medical education does not depend solely on face-to-face continuity. Within various patient continuity experiences, following challenging patients and experiencing unanticipated diagnostic and management outcomes trigger critical reflection in students, leading to deep learning. labels: #Access to Information#Clinical Clerkship#Continuity of Patient Care#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Electronic Health Records#Female#Humans#Learning#Male#Physician-Patient Relations#Qualitative Research#Students, Medical'
b'PURPOSE: Health professionals are expected to routinely assess their weaknesses, set learning goals, and monitor their achievement. Unfortunately, it is well known that these professionals often struggle with effectively integrating external data and self-perceptions. To know how best to intervene, it is critical that the health professionals community understand the cues students and practitioners use to assess their abilities. Here the authors aimed to gain insights into how and why medical students set learning goals, monitor their progress, and demonstrate their learning.METHOD: In 2012, the authors conducted semistructured interviews with Year 2 students (n = 20), applying an inductive approach to data analysis by iteratively developing, refining, and testing coding structures.RESULTS: Themes were constructed through discussion and consensus: (1) Students were diverse in how they set learning goals, (2) they used a range of approaches to monitor their progress, and (3) they struggled to balance studying for exams with preparation for clinical training. Tensions observed highlight assumptions embedded in medical curricula that can be problematic.CONCLUSIONS: Educators often treat medical students as a cohesive whole, thereby creating a mismatch between assessments that are intended to be formative and information students use to monitor their progress. Despite limited exposure to clinical contexts, goal generation and monitoring often stem from a desire to prepare for clinical practice. In grappling with these tensions, it is important to be mindful that students are individualistic in how they balance their commitment to prepare for clinical work and the need to concentrate on exams. labels: #Achievement#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Goals#Humans#Qualitative Research#Self Concept#Students, Medical'
b'PURPOSE: To determine medical students\' study behaviors when preparing for the United States Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) Step 1, and how these behaviors are associated with Step 1 scores when controlling for likely covariates.METHOD: The authors distributed a study-behaviors survey in 2014 and 2015 at their institution to two cohorts of medical students who had recently taken Step 1. Demographic and academic data were linked to responses. Descriptive statistics, bivariate correlations, and multiple linear regression analyses were performed.RESULTS: Of 332 medical students, 274 (82.5%) participated. Most students (n = 211; 77.0%) began studying for Step 1 during their preclinical curriculum, increasing their intensity during a protected study period during which they averaged 11.0 hours studying per day (standard deviation [SD] 2.1) over a period of 35.3 days (SD 6.2). Students used numerous third-party resources, including reading an exam-specific 700-page review book on average 2.1 times (SD 0.8) and completing an average of 3,597 practice multiple-choice questions (SD 1,611). Initiating study prior to the designated study period, increased review book usage, and attempting more practice questions were all associated with higher Step 1 scores, even when controlling for Medical College Admission Test scores, preclinical exam performance, and self-identified score goal (adjusted R = 0.56, P<.001).CONCLUSIONS: Medical students at one public institution engaged in a self-directed, "parallel" Step 1 curriculum using third-party study resources. Several study behaviors were associated with improved USMLE Step 1 performance, informing both institutional- and student-directed preparation for this high-stakes exam. labels: #Clinical Competence#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Educational Measurement#Humans#Licensure, Medical#Students, Medical#Test Taking Skills'
b"PURPOSE: To explore when and in what form pediatric faculty and residents practice reflection.METHOD: From February to June 2015, the authors conducted focus groups of pediatric faculty and residents at the University of California, Davis; Stanford University; and the University of California, San Francisco, until thematic saturation occurred. Transcripts were analyzed based on Mezirow's and Schon's models of reflection, using the constant comparative method associated with grounded theory. Two investigators independently coded transcripts and reconciled codes to develop themes. All investigators reviewed the codes and developed a final list of themes through consensus. Through iterative discussions, investigators developed a conceptual model of reflection in the clinical setting.RESULTS: Seventeen faculty and 20 residents from three institutions participated in six focus groups. Five themes emerged: triggers of reflection, intrinsic factors, extrinsic factors, timing, and outcome of reflection. Various triggers led to reflection; whether a specific trigger led to reflection depended on intrinsic and extrinsic factors. When reflection occurred, it happened in action or on action. Under optimal conditions, this reflection was goal and action directed and became critical reflection. In other instances, this process resulted in unproductive rumination or acted as an emotional release or supportive therapy.CONCLUSIONS: Participants reflected in clinical settings, but did not always explicitly identify it as reflection or reflect in growth-promoting ways. Strategies to enhance critical reflection include developing knowledge and skills in reflection, providing performance data to inform reflection, creating time and space for safe reflection, and providing mentorship to guide the process. labels: #Faculty, Medical#Female#Focus Groups#Grounded Theory#Humans#Internship and Residency#Male#Pediatrics#Qualitative Research"
b"PURPOSE: Without a proper understanding of conflict between health care professionals, designing effective conflict management training programs for trainees that reflect the complexity of the clinical working environment is difficult. To better inform the development of conflict management training, this study sought to explore health care professionals' experiences of conflicts and their characteristics.METHOD: Between 2014 and early 2016, 82 semistructured interviews were conducted with health care professionals directly involved in first-line patient care in four departments of the University Hospitals of Geneva. These professionals included residents, fellows, certified nursing assistants, nurses, and nurse supervisors. All interviews were transcribed verbatim, and conventional content analysis was used to derive conflict characteristics.RESULTS: Six conflict sources were identified. Among these sources, disagreements on patient care tended to be the primary trigger of conflict, whereas sources related to communication contributed to conflict escalation without directly triggering conflict. A framework of workplace conflict that integrates its multidimensional and cyclical nature was subsequently developed. This framework suggests that conflict consequences and responses are interrelated, and might generate further tensions that could affect health care professionals, teams, and organizations, as well as patient care. Findings also indicated that supervisors' responses to contentious situations often failed to meet health care professionals' expectations.CONCLUSIONS: Understanding conflicts between health care professionals involves several interrelated dimensions, such as sources, consequences, and responses to conflict. There is a need to strengthen health care professionals' ability to identify and respond to conflict and to further develop conflict management programs for clinical supervisors. labels: #Adult#Communication#Dissent and Disputes#Female#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Male#Medical Staff, Hospital#Middle Aged#Multilevel Analysis#Negotiating#Nurse Administrators#Nurses#Patient Care Team#Qualitative Research"
b'PURPOSE: To analyze educators\' experiences of facilitating cultural discussions in two global health professions education programs and what these experiences had taught them about critical consciousness.METHOD: A multicultural research team conducted in-depth interviews with 16 faculty who had extensive experience facilitating cultural discussions. They analyzed transcripts of the interviews thematically, drawing sensitizing insights from Gramsci\'s theory of cultural hegemony. Collaboration and conversation helped the team self-consciously examine their positions toward the data set and be critically reflexive.RESULTS: Participant faculty used their prior experience facilitating cultural discussions to create a "safe space" in which learners could develop critical consciousness. During multicultural interactions they recognized and explicitly addressed issues related to power differentials, racism, implicit bias, and gender bias. They noted the need to be "facile in attending to pain" as learners brought up traumatic experiences and other sensitive issues including racism and the impact of power dynamics. They built relationships with learners by juxtaposing and exploring the sometimes-conflicting norms of different cultures. Participants were reflective about their own understanding and tendency to be biased. They aimed to break free of such biases while role modeling how to have the courage to speak up.CONCLUSIONS: Experience had given facilitators in multicultural programs an understanding of their responsibility to promote critical consciousness and social justice. How faculty without prior experience or expertise could develop those values and skills is a topic for future research. labels: #Adult#Consciousness#Cultural Competency#Cultural Diversity#Faculty, Medical#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Power (Psychology)#Qualitative Research#Racism#Sexism#Social Justice#Thinking'
b'PURPOSE: The importance of confidence for learning and performance makes learners\' perceptions of readiness for the next level of training valuable indicators of curricular success. The "Readiness for Clerkship" (RfC) and "Readiness for Residency" (RfR) surveys have been shown to provide reliable ratings of the relative effectiveness of various aspects of training. This study examines the generalizability of those results.METHOD: Surveys were administered at four medical schools approximately four months after the start of clerkship and eight months after the start of residency during 2013-2015. Collected data were anonymized. A total of 647 medical students and 483 residents participated.RESULTS: Reliabilities of G = 0.8 could be obtained with only 6 to 12 medical students and 8 to 15 residents. Within MD programs, no meaningful differences in item ratings were observed across cohorts. Residents in each school consistently rated themselves higher than clerks on the majority of Medical Expert and Communicator competencies common to both surveys. Similar strengths and weaknesses were identified across programs, but differences were observed on five clerkship items and one residency item.CONCLUSIONS: Across four MD programs, the RfC and RfR surveys provided reliable ratings of the relative effectiveness of aspects of training with small numbers of respondents. The capacity of these surveys to efficiently identify perceived strengths and weaknesses held by cohorts of learners may, thereby, facilitate program improvement. labels: #Adult#Clinical Clerkship#Clinical Competence#Education, Medical, Undergraduate#Female#Humans#Internship and Residency#Male#Program Evaluation#Self Concept#Students, Medical#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"PURPOSE: Entrustable professional activities (EPAs) have become a cornerstone of assessment in competency-based medical education (CBME). Increasingly, EPAs are being adopted that do not conform to EPA standards. This study aimed to develop and validate a scoring rubric to evaluate EPAs for alignment with their purpose, and to identify substandard EPAs.METHOD: The EQual rubric was developed and revised by a team of education scholars with expertise in EPAs. It was then applied by four residency program directors/CBME leads (PDs) and four nonclinician support staff to 31 stage-specific EPAs developed for internal medicine in the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada's Competency by Design framework. Results were analyzed using a generalizability study to evaluate overall reliability, with the EPAs as the object of measurement. Item-level analysis was performed to determine reliability and discrimination value for each item. Scores from the PDs were also compared with decisions about revisions made independently by the education scholars group.RESULTS: The EQual rubric demonstrated high reliability in the G-study with a phi-coefficient of 0.84 when applied by the PDs, and moderate reliability when applied by the support staff at 0.67. Item-level analysis identified three items that performed poorly with low item discrimination and low interrater reliability indices. Scores from support staff only moderately correlated with PDs. Using the preestablished cut score, PDs identified 9 of 10 EPAs deemed to require major revision.CONCLUSIONS: EQual rubric scores reliably measured alignment of EPAs with literature-described standards. Further, its application accurately identified EPAs requiring major revisions. labels: #Canada#Clinical Competence#Competency-Based Education#Curriculum#Education, Medical, Graduate#Humans#Internal Medicine#Internship and Residency#Reproducibility of Results"
b'BACKGROUND: Current American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations regarding transition from child safety/booster seat to adult safety belt use indicate that children should be at least 4 feet 9 inches, 8 years old, or 80 pounds. Proper fit in the vehicle seat, assessed with a five-point fit test, should also be met. Although most children reach 4 feet 9 inches around age 8 years, each child and vehicle presents a unique combination; thus a child may not fit appropriately in all vehicle types using only the 4 feet 9 inches requirement.METHODS: We enrolled children, aged 7 years to 12 years, into our study. Height, weight, and demographic data were obtained. A Child Passenger Safety Technician then performed the five-point fit test in each of a uniform lineup of five vehicles. Data were collected on fit in the standard vehicle seat and also in a booster seat. We set 90% as the threshold proportion of children who meet all criteria for proper fit to validate current recommendations of a height of 4 feet 9 inches.RESULTS: Data were collected on 388 children. The percentage of 90% proper fit was met in the compact car and small sport-utility vehicle (SUV). However, only 80 (77%) of 104 students (p<0.0001) that were 4 feet 9 inches or higher fit properly in the large SUV, only 87 (83%) of 105 students (p = 0.02) fit properly in the pickup truck, and only 91 (89%) of 102 students (p = 0.74) fit properly in the minivan.CONCLUSION: Substantial proportions of children meeting current height guidelines for an adult seat belt do not meet safety requirements for fit, especially in larger, commonly used vehicles (large SUVs and trucks). This emphasizes the need for evaluation of fit by a trained personnel and/or development of standard back seat dimensions in all vehicles for maximum safety.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiologic level 1. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Automobiles#Body Size#Child#Child Restraint Systems#Equipment Design#Guideline Adherence#Guidelines as Topic#Humans#Seat Belts#Societies, Medical#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of death among teen drivers. The main goal of this program was to reduce texting while driving among high school teens through a unique peer-generated anti-texting campaign.METHODS: The program consisted of two phases. In phase 1, student leaders participated in a half-day, hospital-based experiential program that emphasized safe teen driving. In phase 2, these students conceptualized and implemented an anti-texting while driving campaign during the school year. The program enrolled 32 schools with 137 student participants in phase 1. This study uses a prospective quasi-experimental pre-post design. A presurvey and a follow-up online survey were used. Response rate was 81%. In phase 2, two rounds of observations of drivers were made near the participating schools at the beginning and end of the phase 2 campaign. The results were analyzed using proportion tests.RESULTS: There was a strong belief (6.49 on a seven-point scale) that texting while driving could result in a crash. About 58% had texted while driving in the previous 7 days in the pre-survey. This proportion decreased significantly to 44% in the follow-up (p<0.05). Knowledge of Tennessee Graduated Driver Licensing laws and feeling of empowerment to take action with a teen driver who was texting improved significantly (p<0.05). In phase 2, 12,309 drivers (adults and teens) were observed in the first round, and 13,153 were observed in the second round of observations. Significant reduction in the proportion of drivers texting while driving (from 13% to 9%; p<0.0001) was observed.CONCLUSION: Results of driver observations support the effectiveness of this program in meeting the key objective of reducing texting while driving. The program also influenced teenagers' willingness to take positive steps when faced with a driver who was texting. Future efforts should aim to influence social and peer norms.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic study, level IV. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adolescent Behavior#Automobile Driving#Cause of Death#Female#Health Promotion#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Schools#Tennessee#Text Messaging"
b'BACKGROUND: Violent-related (assault) injuries are a leading cause of death and disability in the United States. Many violent injury victims seek treatment in the emergency department (ED). Our objectives were to (1) estimate rates of violent-related injuries evaluated in United States EDs, (2) estimate linear trends in ED visits for violent-related injuries from 2000 to 2010, and (3) to determine the associated health care and work-loss costs.METHODS: We examined adults 18 years and older from a nationally representative survey (the National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey) of ED visits, from 2000 to 2010. Violent injury was defined using International Classification of Diseases-9th Rev.-Clinical Modification, diagnosis and mechanism of injury codes. We calculated rates of ED visits for violent injuries. Medical and work-loss costs accrued by these injuries were calculated for 2005, inflation-adjusted to 2011 dollars using the WISQARS Cost of Injury Reports.RESULTS: An annual average of 1.4 million adults were treated for violent injuries in EDs from 2000 to 2010, comprising 1.6% (95% confidence interval, 1.5%-1.6%) of all US adult ED visits. Young adults (18-25 years), men, nonwhites, uninsured or publically insured patients, and those residing in high poverty urban areas were at increased risk for ED visits for violent injury. The 1-year, inflation-adjusted medical and work-loss cost of violent-inflicted injuries in adults in the United States was US $49.5 billion.CONCLUSION: Violent injuries account for over one million ED visits annually among adults, with no change in rates over the past decade. Young black men are at especially increased risk for ED visits for violent injuries. Overall, violent-related injuries resulted in substantial financial and societal costs.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiological study, level III. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Health Care Surveys#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#United States#Violence#Wounds and Injuries'
b"The American Nurses Credentialing Center's Magnet Recognition Program\xc2\xae released the 2019 Magnet\xc2\xae Application Manual () in October. The 2019 manual is the 12th application manual in the 27-year history of the program. The manual builds upon the foundation of seminal research conducted in the early 1980s that led to the creation of the program yet incorporates contemporary standards that address challenges faced globally by healthcare organizations today. labels: #Awards and Prizes#Benchmarking#Credentialing#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Leadership#Nursing Research#Nursing Service, Hospital#United States"
b'After reviewing the literature, nurses at the bedside seeking answers to clinical questions may find their inquiries remain unanswered. This article describes the yearlong Research Fellows Program in which candidates, funded for 12 hours per month of research release time, answered formal research questions in a curriculum designed to provide the skills to complete their study. Five have completed their studies; 1 has received a grant to continue. Two are in process of submitting manuscripts to journals. labels: #Clinical Nursing Research#Evidence-Based Nursing#Fellowships and Scholarships#Humans#Models, Nursing#Practice Guidelines as Topic'
b"With the industry in flux as federal healthcare reform legislation debates continue, leaders are preparing for what the post-Affordable Care Act world might look like. Predictions include patients assuming more responsibility for healthcare costs and therefore behaving like consumers, including choosing providers based on perceived value. What actions should chief nurse executives take to ensure the nursing enterprise responds to rising consumerism in healthcare? labels: #Choice Behavior#Community Participation#Consumer Health Information#Cost Sharing#Health Care Costs#Health Expenditures#Humans#Nurse Administrators#Nurse's Role#Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act#United States"
b'The CGEAN Board established a goal to support MSN administration programs to thrive and meet the need for well-prepared nurses to assume leadership roles. This column addresses how we embarked on this work through creation of a Circle of Advisors composed of national nursing leaders who came together to address specific curricular issues and more importantly to voice support for continuation of MSN administration programs. labels: #Education, Nursing, Graduate#Humans#Leadership#Nurse Administrators#Personnel Selection#Personnel Turnover#Retirement'
b"Healthcare systems seek effective ways to support and treat the growing number of individuals living with serious illness. The nature of these care episodes challenges delivery systems to attain proficiency in dealing with the multiplicity of chronic conditions in individuals and populations through understanding and attending to patients' medical and nonmedical aspects of health. This article describes LifeCourse, a healthcare approach that provides palliative care practices to patients with serious illness years prior to death. labels: #Caregivers#Holistic Health#Humans#Multiple Chronic Conditions#Palliative Care#Patient Preference#Patient-Centered Care#Professional-Family Relations#Professional-Patient Relations#Quality of Life#Social Support"
b'This article describes 1 organization\'s successful approach to mitigating the potential negative effects of a new electronic medical record on patient experience. The Carolina Care model, developed at the University of North Carolina Hospitals to actualize caring theory in practice, helped to structure and greatly facilitate this work. Seven focus areas were integrated to create the "Communication in an Electronic Environment" program with a strong emphasis on nurse-patient communication. labels: #Documentation#Electronic Health Records#Health Plan Implementation#Humans#Models, Organizational#North Carolina#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Patient Satisfaction'
b'OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to assess benefits of the acuity-adaptable (AA) care model in rural hospitals.BACKGROUND: The AA model aims to provide care in the same space from admission to discharge regardless of acuity. Evidence is lacking to support claims that AA care will improve patient safety, increase nurse productivity, and improve patient/staff satisfaction in rural hospitals.METHODS: Patients admitted to a rural intensive care unit (ICU) were allocated to an AA group or an ICU group. Patients in the AA group remained in the ICU room through discharge. Patients in the ICU group transferred out of ICU when acuity permitted. Patient anxiety, depression, and perception of emotional care were measured. Staff responses were assessed qualitatively.RESULTS: Acuity-adaptable patients reported significantly more anxiety and less perceived emotional care than ICU patients. Intensive care unit nurses resisted caring for less acute patients.CONCLUSION: Disadvantages may outweigh benefits of AA care delivery in the rural ICU. labels: #Adult#Attitude of Health Personnel#Efficiency, Organizational#Female#Focus Groups#Hospitals, Rural#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Organizational#Nurse-Patient Relations#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Handoff#Patient Safety#Patient Satisfaction#Patient Transfer#Pilot Projects#Program Evaluation'
b"OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to explore the relationship of night-shift napping on fatigue.BACKGROUND: Nurses' fatigue, especially at night, interferes with quality of life and job performance and impacts safety and health.METHODS: Night-shift nurses completed the Brief Fatigue Inventory and a demographic information sheet to determine differences in fatigue between nurses who napped during their night shift as compared with nurses who did not nap.RESULTS: No statistically significant differences in global fatigue were found; differences in rotating shift, age, and, gender were identified. Rotating shifts, a 2nd job, and caring for family predicted fatigue.CONCLUSIONS: Based on this pilot study, further investigations of fatigue among night-shift nurses are needed as well as evidence-based support to promote sleep. labels: #Adult#Circadian Rhythm#Fatigue#Female#Humans#Male#Medical Errors#Middle Aged#Night Care#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Patient Safety#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Pilot Projects#Sleep Deprivation#Work Schedule Tolerance#Young Adult"
b'Perforated fluid distribution pipes have been widely used in agriculture, water supply and drainage, ventilation, the chemical industry, and other sectors. The momentum equation for variable mass flow with a variable exchange coefficient and variable friction coefficient was developed by using the momentum conservation method under the condition of a certain slope. The change laws of the variable momentum exchange coefficient and the variable resistance coefficient along the flow were analyzed, and the function of the momentum exchange coefficient was given. According to the velocity distribution of the power function, the momentum equation of variable mass flow was solved for different Reynolds numbers. The analytical solution contains components of pressure, gravity, friction and momentum and reflects the influence of various factors on the pressure distribution along the perforated pipe. The calculated results of the analytical solution were compared with the experimental values of the study by Jin et al. 1984 and Wang et al. 2001 with the mean errors 8.2%, 3.8% and 2.7%, and showed that the analytical solution of the variable mass momentum equation was qualitatively and quantitatively consistent with the experimental results. labels: #Friction#Gravitation#Pressure#Water#Water Supply'
b"Antibodies are thought to play an essential role in naturally acquired immunity to malaria. Prospective cohort studies have frequently shown how continuous exposure to the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum cause an accumulation of specific responses against various antigens that correlate with a decreased risk of clinical malaria episodes. However, small effect sizes and the often polymorphic nature of immunogenic parasite proteins make the robust identification of the true targets of protective immunity ambiguous. Furthermore, the degree of individual-level protection conferred by elevated responses to these antigens has not yet been explored. Here we applied a machine learning approach to identify immune signatures predictive of individual-level protection against clinical disease. We find that commonly assumed immune correlates are poor predictors of clinical protection in children. On the other hand, antibody profiles predictive of an individual's malaria protective status can be found in data comprising responses to a large set of diverse parasite proteins. We show that this pattern emerges only after years of continuous exposure to the malaria parasite, whereas susceptibility to clinical episodes in young hosts (<10 years) cannot be ascertained by measured antibody responses alone. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aging#Antigens, Protozoan#Autoantibodies#Biomarkers#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Susceptibility#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Infant#Machine Learning#Malaria#Plasmodium falciparum#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Adult seroprevalence of HAV is decreasing in developed countries including South Korea, due to general sanitation improvement. Although hepatitis A vaccination was introduced in South Korea more than 20 years ago, recent infection rates have not decreased. In this study, we investigate the seroprevalence of anti-HAV IgG, and estimate the national disease burden of acute hepatitis A in adult population.METHODS: Seroprevalence data were collected from health promotion center of Korea University Guro Hospital, in Seoul, Korea from 2010 to 2014. Data from adults (\xe2\x89\xa520-years) being tested for anti-HAV IgG were included. In addition, epidemiological and clinical data of patients diagnosed with acute hepatitis A from 2009 to 2013, were collected from Korean Statistical Information Service (KOSIS) and the National Health Insurance Service (NHIS) database. Data were stratified and compared by age groups.RESULTS: A total of 11,177 subjects were tested for anti-HAV IgG from 2010 to 2014. Age-related seroprevalence showed relatively low seropositivity in young adults. Incidence of acute hepatitis A was highest in 2009 and lowest in 2013. When categorized by age group, adults in their 20s and 30s had more HAV infections and related-admissions than older adults. However, ICU admission rate and average insurance-covered cost was high in older adults.CONCLUSION: The anti-HAV IgG seropositivity in Korean younger adult population was low while the incidence of acute hepatitis A was high, especially in the 20-39 aged. However, a substantial number of older adults were infected, and required more intensive procedures and incurred higher insurance-covered medical costs. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Female#Hepatitis A#History, 21st Century#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Republic of Korea#Seroepidemiologic Studies#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVE: Cognitive deficits are common in Parkinson's disease (PD) since the early stages and many patients eventually develop dementia. Yet, occurrence of dementia in PD is unpredictable. Evidence supports the hypothesis that insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) is involved in cognitive deficits. Our aim was to evaluate the relationship between serum IGF-1 levels and neuropsychological scores in a large cohort of drug-na\xc3\xafve PD patients during the earliest stages of the disease.METHODS: Serum IGF-1 levels were determined in 405 early, drug-na\xc3\xafve PD patients and 191 healthy controls (HC) enrolled in the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI). The association between serum IGF-1 levels and neuropsychological scores was evaluated with linear regression analysis.RESULTS: IGF-1 levels were similar in PD and HC. In PD patients the lowest IGF-1 quartile was a predictor of lower performances at the Semantic Fluency task (\xce\xb2 = -3.46, 95%CI: -5.87 to -1.01, p = 0.005), the Symbol Digit Modalities Score (\xce\xb2 = -2.09, 95%CI: -4.02 to -0.15, p = 0.034), and Hopkins Verbal Learning Test Retention (\xce\xb2 = -0.05, 95%CI: -0.09 to -0.009, p = 0.019).CONCLUSIONS: Lower serum IGF-1 levels are associated to poor performances in cognitive tasks assessing executive function, attention and verbal memory in a large cohort of early PD patients. Follow-up studies are warranted to assess if IGF-1 is related to the development of dementia in PD. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cognition Disorders#Female#Humans#Insulin-Like Growth Factor I#Male#Middle Aged#Parkinson Disease"
b'Genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) was conducted on 333 Cercospora isolates collected from Beta vulgaris (sugar beet, table beet and swiss chard) in the USA and Europe. Cercospora beticola was confirmed as the species predominantly isolated from leaves with Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) symptoms. However, C. cf. flagellaris also was detected at a frequency of 3% in two table beet fields in New York. Resolution of the spatial structure and identification of clonal lineages in C. beticola populations using genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) obtained from GBS was compared to genotyping using microsatellites. Varying distance thresholds (bitwise distance = 0, 1.854599 \xc3\x97 10-4, and 1.298 \xc3\x97 10-3) were used for delineation of clonal lineages in C. beticola populations. Results supported previous reports of long distance dispersal of C. beticola through genotype flow. The GBS-SNP data set provided higher resolution in discriminating clonal lineages; however, genotype identification was impacted by filtering parameters and the distance threshold at which the multi-locus genotypes (MLGs) were contracted to multi-locus lineages. The type of marker or different filtering strategies did not impact estimates of population differentiation and structure. Results emphasize the importance of robust filtering strategies and designation of distance thresholds for delineating clonal lineages in population genomics analyses that depend on individual assignment and identification of clonal lineages. Detection of recurrent clonal lineages shared between the USA and Europe, even in the relaxed-filtered SNP data set and with a conservative distance threshold for contraction of MLGs, provided strong evidence for global genotype flow in C. beticola populations. The implications of intercontinental migration in C. beticola populations for CLS management are discussed. labels: #Ascomycota#Beta vulgaris#Genotype#Microsatellite Repeats#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the current incidence, clinical features, risk factors, aetiology, antimicrobial resistance and outcomes of polymicrobial bloodstream infection (PBSI) in patients with cancer.METHODS: All prospectively collected episodes of PBSI in hospitalised patients were compared with episodes of monomicrobial bloodstream infection (MBSI) between 2006 and 2015.RESULTS: We identified 194 (10.2%) episodes of PBSI and 1702 MBSI (89.8%). The presence of cholangitis, biliary stenting, neutropenia, corticosteroids, neutropenic enterocolitis and other abdominal infections were identified as risk factors for PBSI. Overall, Gram-negative organisms were the most frequent aetiology, but Enterococcus spp. were especially frequent causes of Gram-positive PBSI (30.8%). Multidrug-resistant (MDR) organisms were more commonly found in PBSI than in MBSI (20.6% vs 12.9%; p = 0.003). Compared to patients with MBSI, those with PBSI presented with higher early (15% vs 1.4%; p = 0.04) and overall (32% vs 20.9%; p<0.001) case-fatality rates. Risk factors for overall case-fatality were a high-risk MASCC (Multinational Association of Supportive Care in Cancer) index score, corticosteroid use, persistent bacteraemia and septic shock.CONCLUSIONS: PBSI is a frequent complication in patients with cancer and is responsible for high mortality rates. Physicians should identify patients at risk for PBSI and provide empiric antibiotic therapy that covers the most frequent pathogens involved in these infections, including MDR strains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Infective Agents#Bacteremia#Coinfection#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Knee osteoarthritis is a leading global cause of health-related quality of life loss. The aim of this project was to quantify health losses arising from knee osteoarthritis in New Zealand (NZ) in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost.METHODS: The Osteoarthritis Policy Model (OAPol), a validated Monte Carlo computer simulation model, was used to estimate QALYs lost due to knee osteoarthritis in the NZ adult population aged 40-84 over their lifetimes from the base year of 2006 until death. Data were from the NZ Health Survey, NZ Burden of Diseases, NZ Census, and relevant literature. QALYs were derived from NZ EQ-5D value set 2. Sensitivity to health state valuation, disease and pain prevalence were assessed in secondary analyses.RESULTS: Based on NZ EQ-5D health state valuations, mean health losses due to knee osteoarthritis over people's lifetimes in NZ are 3.44 QALYs per person, corresponding to 467,240 QALYs across the adult population. Average estimated per person QALY losses are higher for non-M\xc4\x81ori females (3.55) than M\xc4\x81ori females (3.38), and higher for non-M\xc4\x81ori males (3.34) than M\xc4\x81ori males (2.60). The proportion of QALYs lost out of the total quality-adjusted life expectancy for those without knee osteoarthritis is similar across all subgroups, ranging from 20 to 23 percent.CONCLUSIONS: At both the individual and population levels, knee osteoarthritis is responsible for large lifetime QALY losses. QALY losses are higher for females than males due to greater prevalence of knee osteoarthritis and higher life expectancy, and lower for M\xc4\x81ori than non-M\xc4\x81ori due to lower life expectancy. Large health gains are potentially realisable from public health and policy measures aimed at decreasing incidence, progression, pain, and disability of osteoarthritis. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#New Zealand#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Quality of Life"
b'BACKGROUND: Wilms tumor, aniridia, genitourinary anomalies and mental retardation (WAGR) syndrome is a rare genetic disorder caused by heterozygous deletions of WT1 and PAX6 at chromosome 11p13. Deletion of BDNF is known eto be associated with hyperphagia and obesity in both humans and animal models; however, neuroendocrine and epigenetic profiles of individuals with WAGR syndrome remain to be determined.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 5-year-old girl with the typical phenotype of WAGR syndrome. She showed profound delays in physical growth, motor and cognitive development without signs of obesity. Array comparative genome hybridization (CGH) revealed that she carried a 14.4\xc2\xa0Mb deletion at 11p14.3p12, encompassing the WT1, PAX6 and BDNF genes. She experienced recurrent hypoglycemic episodes at 5\xc2\xa0years of age. Insulin tolerance and hormonal loading tests showed normal hypothalamic responses to the hypoglycemic condition and other stimulations. Methylation analysis for freshly prepared DNA from peripheral lymphocytes using the pyro-sequencing-based system showed normal patterns of methylation at known imprinting control regions.CONCLUSIONS: Children with WAGR syndrome may manifest profound delay in postnatal growth through unknown mechanisms. Epigenetic factors and growth-associated genes in WAGR syndrome remain to be characterized. labels: #Child, Preschool#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#Comparative Genomic Hybridization#DNA Methylation#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Hormones#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Sequence Deletion#WAGR Syndrome'
b'BACKGROUND: Studying human genome using chromosomal microarrays has significantly improved the accuracy and yield of diagnosing genomic disorders. Chromosome 7q36 deletions and duplications are rare genomic disorders that have been reported in a limited number of children with developmental delay, growth retardation, and congenital malformation. Altered dosage of SHH and HLXB9, both located in 7q36.3, is believed to play roles in the phenotypes associated with these rearrangements. In this report we describe a child with 7q36.1q36.2 triplication that is proximal to the 7q36.3 region. In addition to the clinical description, we discuss the genes located in the triplicated region.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a 22\xc2\xa0month old male child with a de novo 1.35\xc2\xa0Mb triplication at 7q36.1q36.2. His prenatal course was complicated by oligohydramnios, intrauterine growth restriction, and decreased fetal movement. Hypotonia, respiratory distress, and feeding difficulty were observed in the neonatal period. He also had developmental delay, cardiovascular malformation, growth failure with microcephaly, short stature, and underweight, sensorineural hearing loss, myopia, astigmatism, cryptorchidism, hypospadias, microphallus, lower extremity length discrepancy, bifid uvula, single palmer creases, and distinctive facial features including straight eyebrows, ptosis, up-slanted palpebral fissures, broad nasal bridge, low-set and posteriorly rotated ears, small mouth with thick lower lip, microretrognathia, and high-arched palate.CONCLUSIONS: The child presented here had developmental delay, distinctive facial features, multiple congenital anomalies, and 7q36.1q36.2 triplication. This triplication, which was found to be de novo, has not been previously described and is believed to result in the observed phenotype. The triplicated region harbors the GALNTL5, GALNT11, KMT2C, XRCC2, and ACTR3B genes. GALNT11 encodes a membrane-bound polypeptide N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase that can O-glycosylate NOTCH1 leading to the activation of the Notch signaling pathway. Therefore, increased GALNT11 dosage can potentially alter the Notch signaling pathway explaining the pathogenicity of 7q36 triplication. Studying further cases with similar genomic rearrangements is needed to make final conclusions about the pathogenicity of this triplication. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Chromosome Duplication#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 7#Gene Amplification#Humans#Infant#Male#N-Acetylgalactosaminyltransferases'
b'OBJECTIVE: Ruptured endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (REVAR) is being increasingly used to treat ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (rAAAs). However, the comparison between totally percutaneous (pREVAR) vs femoral cutdown (cREVAR) access for REVAR has not been studied. We used a national surgical database to evaluate the 30-day outcomes in patients undergoing pREVAR vs cREVAR.METHODS: Patients who underwent EVAR for rAAA between 2011 and 2014, inclusively, were studied in the American College of Surgeons (ACS) National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) targeted vascular database. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to compare preoperative demographics, operation-specific variables, and postoperative outcomes between those who had pREVAR and cREVAR.RESULTS: We identified 502 patients who underwent REVAR, of which 129 had pREVAR (25.7%) and 373 cREVAR (74.3%). Between 2011 and 2014, the use of totally percutaneous access for repair increased from 14% to 32%. Of all patients undergoing REVAR, 24% had bilateral percutaneous access, 2% had attempted percutaneous access converted to cutdown, 64% had bilateral femoral cutdowns, and 10% had single femoral cutdown. Univariate analysis showed there were no significant differences in age, gender, body mass index, AAA size, or other high-risk physiologic comorbidities between the two groups. There was also no difference in rates of preoperative hemodynamic instability (48.1% vs 45.0%; P\xc2\xa0= .55) or need for perioperative transfusion (67.4% vs 67.8%; P\xc2\xa0= .94). There was a higher incidence of use of regional anesthesia for pREVAR compared with cREVAR (20.9% vs 7.8%; P\xc2\xa0<.01). The incidence of postoperative wound complications was similar between both groups (4.8% vs 5.4%; P\xc2\xa0= .79), whereas hospital length of stay was shorter in the pREVAR group (mean difference, 1.3\xc2\xa0days). Overall 30-day mortality was higher in the pREVAR group (28.7% vs 20.1%; P\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa0.04), and operative time was longer (mean difference, 6.3\xc2\xa0minutes). However, when pREVARs done in 2011 to 2012 were compared with those done in 2013 to 2014, 30-day mortality decreased from 38.2% to 25.3% and operative time decreased by 25\xc2\xa0minutes (188 to 163\xc2\xa0minutes). Multivariate analysis showed there were no significant differences in mortality, wound complications, hospital length of stay, or operative time between pREVAR and cREVAR.CONCLUSIONS: The ACS NSQIP targeted vascular database shows that there has been increased adoption of pREVAR in recent years, with improved mortality and\xc2\xa0operative time over the 4-year study period. At this point, pREVAR has not yet been shown to be superior to cREVAR for\xc2\xa0rAAA, but these outcome improvements are encouraging and likely attributable to increased operator experience. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Aortic Rupture#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Chi-Square Distribution#Databases, Factual#Endovascular Procedures#Female#Femoral Artery#Humans#Length of Stay#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b'OBJECTIVE: Randomized trials have shown an initial survival benefit of endovascular over conventional open abdominal aortic aneurysm repair but no long-term difference up to 6\xc2\xa0years after repair. Longer follow-up may be required to demonstrate the cumulative negative impact on survival of higher reintervention rates associated with endovascular repair.METHODS: We updated the results of the Dutch Randomized Endovascular Aneurysm Management (DREAM) trial, a multicenter, randomized controlled trial comparing open with endovascular aneurysm repair, up to 15\xc2\xa0years of follow-up. Survival and reinterventions were analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. Causes of death and secondary interventions were compared by use of an events per person-year analysis.RESULTS: There were 178 patients randomized to open and 173 to endovascular repair. Twelve years after randomization, the cumulative overall survival rates were 42.2% for open and 38.5% for endovascular repair, for a difference of 3.7 percentage points (95% confidence interval,\xc2\xa0-6.7 to 14.1; P\xc2\xa0= .48). The cumulative rates of freedom from reintervention were 78.9% for open repair and 62.2% for endovascular repair, for a difference of 16.7 percentage points (95% confidence interval, 5.8-27.6; P\xc2\xa0= .01). No differences were observed in causes of death. Cardiovascular and malignant disease account for the majority of deaths after prolonged follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: During 12\xc2\xa0years of follow-up, there was no survival difference between patients who underwent open or endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair, despite a continuously increasing number of reinterventions in the endovascular repair group. Endograft durability and the need for continued endograft surveillance remain key issues. labels: #Aged#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Belgium#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Cause of Death#Disease-Free Survival#Endovascular Procedures#Female#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Netherlands#Postoperative Complications#Retreatment#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'Approximately 80% of ovarian cancer (OC) is diagnosed at late stages, and most patients die within 5 years of diagnosis due to recurrence or drug resistance. Novel treatments are required to improve patient survival. Immune therapy against cancer is promising; however, therapeutic vaccination has been limited by the inability of tumor antigens to induce effective immune responses. Chloride intracellular channel 1 (CLIC1) was previously identified as a possible tumor marker for OC. In this study, we constructed a recombinant protein by conjugating the extracellular domain of CLIC1 to the carboxyl terminus of Mycobacterium tuberculosis heat shock protein 70 (MtHsp70). Human dendritic cells (DCs) derived from cortical blood were pulsed with the fusion protein, and the antitumor effect of human cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) stimulated by autologous DCs was assessed in NOG mice. MtHsp70-CLIC1 promoted the phenotypic maturation of human DCs and the secretion of Th1-associated cytokines in\xc2\xa0vitro. MtHsp70-CLIC1-stimulated CTLs generated a CLIC1-specific immune response both in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo. These results indicate that DCs pulsed with MtHsp70-CLIC1 can enhance antitumor immunity against OC, providing a novel immune therapeutic strategy. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cancer Vaccines#Cell Line, Tumor#Chloride Channels#Dendritic Cells#Female#HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred NOD#Mice, SCID#Ovarian Neoplasms#Recombinant Fusion Proteins#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Imbalance of M1/M2 macrophages phenotype activation is a key point in diabetic nephropathy (DN). Macrophages mainly exhibit M1 phenotype, which contributes to the inflammation and fibrosis in DN. Studies indicate that autophage plays an important role in M1/M2 activation. However, the effect of mitophage on M1/M2 macrophage phenotype transformation in DN is unknown. This study investigates the role of mitophage on macrophage polarization in DN. In\xc2\xa0vivo experiments show that macrophages are exhibited to M1 phenotype and display a lower level of mitophagy in the kidney of streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Additionally, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression is positive correlated with the P62 expression, while negative correlated with LC3. Electronic microscope analysis shows mitochondria swelling, crista decrease and lysosome reduction in DN rats compared with NC rats. In\xc2\xa0vitro, RAW264.7 macrophages switch to M1 phenotype under high glucose conditions. Mitophagy is downregulated in such high glucose induced M1 macrophages. Furthermore, macrophages tend to switch to the M1 phenotype, expressing higher iNOS and TNF-\xce\xb1 when impair mitophagy by 3-MA. Rapamycin, an activator of mitophagy, signifcantly blocks high-glucose induced M1 makers (iNOS and TNF-\xce\xb1) expression, meanwhile enhances M2 makers (MR and Arg-1) expression. These results demonstrate that mitophage participates in the regulation of M1/M2 macrophage phenotype in diabetic nephropathy. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Diabetic Nephropathies#Glucose#Kidney#Macrophages#Male#Mice#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Degradation#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II#Phenotype#RAW 264.7 Cells#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'Nitric oxide (NO) is considered as a signalling molecule involved in a variety of important physiological and pathological processes in plant and animal systems. The major pathway of NO reactions in\xc2\xa0vivo represents S-nitrosation of thiols to form S-nitrosothiols. S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR) is the key enzyme in the degradation pathway of S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), a low-molecular weight adduct of NO and glutathione. GSNOR indirectly regulates the level of protein S-nitrosothiol in the cells. This study was focused on the dynamic regulation of the activity of plant GSNORs through reversible S-nitrosation and/or oxidative modifications of target cysteine residues. Pre-incubation with NO/NO-donors or hydrogen peroxide resulted in a decreased reductase and dehydrogenase activity of all studied plant GSNORs. Incubation with thiol reducing agent completely reversed inhibitory effects of nitrosative modifications and partially also oxidative inhibition. In biotin-labelled samples, S-nitrosation of plant GSNORs was confirmed after immunodetection and using mass spectrometry S-nitrosation of conserved Cys271 was identified in tomato GSNOR. Negative regulation of constitutive GSNOR activity in\xc2\xa0vivo by nitrosative or oxidative modifications might present an important mechanism to control GSNO levels, a critical mediator of the downstream signalling effects of NO, as well as for formaldehyde detoxification in dehydrogenase reaction mode. labels: #Aldehyde Oxidoreductases#Animals#Cysteine#Hydrogen Peroxide#Lycopersicon esculentum#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Donors#Nitrosation#Oxidation-Reduction#Plant Proteins#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Recombinant Proteins#S-Nitrosoglutathione#S-Nitrosothiols#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Coumarins are a member of the benzopyrone family of compounds with diverse and interesting pharmacological properties. In the present study, we report the in vitro cytotoxicity evaluation of 7,8-Diacetoxy-3-arylcoumarin derivatives (5a-h) in human prostate (PC-3) and breast (MDA-MB-231) cancer cell lines.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cytotoxic activity was evaluated using crystal violet dye-binding assay. Furthermore, the most active compound in vitro cytotoxic activity in human non-cancerous cell line and its effect on the cell-cycle phases, apoptosis proteins expression, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and Glutathione (GSH) level were performed.RESULTS: Among the eight compounds that were evaluated, 7,8-Diacetoxy-3-(4-methylsulfonyl phenyl)coumarin (5f) was the most active derivative with highest cytotoxic activity and selectivity against the PC-3 cell line vs. the non-cancerous WPE1-N22 cell line. The cytotoxic action of compound 5f in PC-3 cells is associated with the cell-cycle arrest at -G0/G1 phase, apoptosis, loss in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and depletion of Glutathione (GSH) level.CONCLUSION: The result indicates that the presence of p-methylsulfonylphenyl group on compound 5f is critical in modulating selective cytotoxic activity and induction of apoptosis via the mitochondrial apoptotic signaling pathway that is independent of cytochrome c release. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Coumarins#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Prostatic Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been shown to inhibit the induction and progression of many tumor types. The aim of this study was to determine the anticancer effect of docosahexaenoic acid monoglyceride (MAG-DHA) alone and in combination with the chemotherapeutic agent carboplatin (CBT) on lung cancer models.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Adenocarcinoma cell lines A549 and H1299 were used to evaluate the effect of combined MAG-DHA and CBT treatments both in vitro and in vivo in xenograft models.RESULTS: MAG-DHA+CBT treatment decreased cell proliferation and invasion abilities of A549 and H1299 cells. Furthermore, MAG-DHA+CBT treatment resulted in a decreased activation of epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in cell lysates. In A549 and H1299 xenograft mouse models, MAG-DHA+CBT treatment reduced tumor growth.CONCLUSION: Combined MAG-DHA and CBT treatment inhibited tumor growth by suppressing EGFR and ERK signaling pathways in lung carcinoma cells. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Carboplatin#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Mice#Mice, Nude#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Monoglycerides#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND: Temozolomide is the primary chemotherapeutic agent used to treat glioblastoma. However, many tumors are initially resistant to or develop resistance to temozolomide, mainly due to high levels of O6-methylguanine DNA transferase (MGMT) which repairs DNA damage traditionally caused by temozolomide. Dihydrotanshinone (DHT) is extracted from Salvia miltiorrhiza, a Chinese medicinal plant, and has also been shown to have antiproliferative effects on various cancer cell lines. DHT has been to shown to induce apoptosis via induction endoplasmic reticulum stress, that can reportedly sensitize cells to temozolomide.MATERIALS AND METHODS: MTS cellular proliferation assays or trypan blue viability assays were used to determine the effects of DHT/temozolomide combinatorial treatment. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to determine effects on MGMT and P-glycoprotein levels after singular and combinatorial treatment.RESULTS: DHT had a synergistic oncolytic effect in a MGMT-deficient cell line and a sensitizing effect in a MGMT-expressing cell line. Cytotoxicity due to DHT was shown to be reactive oxygen species-dependent, while the combinatorial effect of DHT and temozolomide synergistically reduced MGMT and P-glycoprotein levels.CONCLUSION: DHT was shown to augment temozolomide efficacy, indicating that, since DHT can penetrate the blood-brain barrier, temozolomide in combination with DHT may represent a promising therapeutic option for glioblastoma. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Dacarbazine#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Drug Synergism#Glioblastoma#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Phenanthrenes#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic Ductal adeno-carcinoma (PDAC) is a devastating disease. Gemcitabine is the standard chemotherapeutic agent against PDAC but has only limited effectiveness. The aim of the study was to develop and study the targeting affinity and in vitro antiproliferative effect of a MUC4-targeted gemcitabine-loaded immuno-liposome for treatment of PDAC.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Gemcitabine-loaded immunoliposomes were developed by grafting anti-MUC4 antibodies to the liposomal surface. Targeting affinity was compared in vitro between immunoliposomes and non-targeted liposomes and anti-proliferative effect was compared in vitro between free drug, non-targeted liposomal gemcitabine and MUC4-targeted immunoliposomal gemcitabine on a MUC4-positive pancreatic cancer cell line, Capan-1.RESULTS: Development of a MUC4-targeted immunoliposome was confirmed and characterized by immunoblots and size characterization. The MUC4-targeted immunoliposome showed a significantly higher targeting affinity compared to the non-targeted liposomes and also showed an improved antiproliferative effect compared to free and non-targeted liposomal drug.CONCLUSION: Successful development and characterization of a MUC4-targeted immunoliposome shows promising results for a targeted treatment and improved retention of gemcitabine for treatment of PDAC. labels: #Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Cell Proliferation#Deoxycytidine#Drug Synergism#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Liposomes#Mucin-4#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Fucoidans are gaining popularity as natural immunomodulators. The aim of this study was to compare the immunological activities or both purified samples and commercially available mixtures containing fucoidan.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated the effects of various samples on phagocytosis, mitogenic response, natural killer (NK) activity, antibody formation and inhibition of breast cancer growth.RESULTS: We found significant immunostimulating activity, but the strength of these effects was different among individual samples.CONCLUSION: Fucoidans have strong immunostimulating potential, including inhibition of cancer, with isolated samples offering better activity than commercial mixtures. labels: #Adjuvants, Immunologic#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Female#Immunologic Factors#Inflammation#Killer Cells, Natural#Macrophages#Mammary Neoplasms, Animal#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Phagocytosis#Polysaccharides#T-Lymphocytes'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: B cell-specific Moloney murine leukemia virus integration site 1 (BMI1) is up-regulated in several cancers; therefore, we investigated the effects of BMI1 inhibitors on leukemia cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four acute myeloid leukemia and two T-lymphoblastic leukemia cell lines were treated with BMI1 inhibitors artemisinin, PRT4165, and PTC-209 and analyzed for cell proliferation and gene expression by microarray and immunoblotting.RESULTS: PTC-209 and PRT4165 suppressed the growth of all cell lines through apoptosis.Artemisinin acted only on Jurkat cells. BMI1 inhibitors and BMI1-specific siRNA down-regulated the expression of NOTCH signaling proteins NOTCH1, HES1, and MYC. All but one cell lines did not have the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A) gene targeted by BMI1, thus the inhibitors acted through CDKN2A-independent pathways.CONCLUSION: BMI1 inhibition suppressed proliferation of leukemia cells through NOTCH signaling which functions downstream of BMI1, suggesting that BMI1 inhibitors can be candidate targeted drugs against leukemia. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Heterocyclic Compounds, 2-Ring#Humans#Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute#Leukemia, T-Cell#Polycomb Repressive Complex 1#RNA, Small Interfering#Receptors, Notch#Signal Transduction#Thiazoles#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the characteristics of two cisplatin (CDDP)-loaded, sialyl Lewis X-modified liposomes (CDDP-SLX-LIP) with different particle size. Each had the same lipid composition and CDDP concentration, but a different drug-to-lipid ratio.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The amount of platinum in the filtrates was determined by the ICP method. The antitumor effect was assessed using rats bearing MRMT-1 tumor.RESULTS: CDDP release was faster from the larger liposome formulation (L-LIP) than from the smaller one (S-LIP). Treatment with the two CDDP-SLX-LIPs resulted in comparable antitumor effects without obvious side-effects, but treatment with CDDP solution resulted in significant weight loss and an elevated BUN. Tumor accumulation of CDDP-SLX-LIP was clearly greater than that of CDDP solution and accumulation of S-LIP was greater than that of L-LIP.CONCLUSION: CDDP-SLX-LIP exhibited antitumor effects depending on their release behavior and tumor accumulation. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Cisplatin#Drug Liberation#Female#Liposomes#Mammary Neoplasms, Experimental#Oligosaccharides#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Tissue Distribution'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Pirarubicin (THP) has shown equal or superior cytotoxicity compared to doxorubicin. One of the main anticancer actions of doxorubicin is believed to be involved in ROS (reactive oxygen species) generation. Therefore, the anticancer mechanisms of THP may involve ROS generation. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanisms of THP-induced apoptosis through ROS generation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed the apoptotic events induced by THP in HL-60 cells and HP100 cells, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-resistant cells derived from HL-60.RESULTS: The apparent cytotoxicity could be detected at above 0.1 \xce\xbcM in HL-60 cells after 24-h incubation, whereas it was suppressed under these conditions in HP100 cells. In HP100 cells, THP-induced apoptosis, evaluated by DNA ladder formation, H2O2generation, mitochondrial membrane potential decrease and caspase-3/7 activity, was suppressed or delayed compared to those of HL-60 cells.CONCLUSION: These findings can be explained by the involvement of H2O2generation in the THP apoptotic pathway. This is the first report on THP-induced apoptosis through the H2O2generation. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Humans#Hydrogen Peroxide#Leukemia, Promyelocytic, Acute#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: (-)-Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) has been indicated to regulate the function of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is a drug transporter encoded by the MDR1 (ABCB1) gene. P-gp expression is induced by doxorubicin (DOX). We aimed to clarify the mechanisms and inhibitory effects of EGCG on DOX-induced P-gp expression in HepG2 cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Rhodamine 123 (Rho123) was used for P-gp substrate. Western blotting and polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) were conducted using specific antibodies and primer sets.RESULTS: The DOX-pretreated cells accumulated a significantly decreased amount of Rho123), than control cells; however, the cells pretreated with EGCG and DOX, in combination, accumulated Rho123 more than DOX-pretreated cells. DOX induced the overexpression of MDR1 mRNA and increased the phosphorylation of Akt, ERK1/2, p38 MAPK and JNK. EGCG significantly inhibited the phosphorylation of Akt and ERK. The DOX-induced P-gp overexpression was partially suppressed by an inhibitor of MEK1/2 (U0126), but not by a PI3K inhibitor (LY294002). Interestingly, the expression of P-gp was synergistically inhibited by combined treatment of U0126 with LY294002 and also inhibited by an mTORC1 inhibitor, rapamycin.CONCLUSION: EGCG inhibited DOX-induced overexpression of P-gp through the coordinate inhibitory action on MEK/ERK and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. labels: #ATP Binding Cassette Transporter, Sub-Family B#Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Catechin#Doxorubicin#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Neuroprotective Agents#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Phosphorylation#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Rhodamine 123#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b"BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma is an embryonal malignancy arising from the aberrant growth of neural crest progenitor cells of the sympathetic nervous system. The tachykinin receptor 1 (TACR1) - substance P complex is associated with tumoral angiogenesis and cell proliferation in a variety of cancer types. Inhibition of TACR1 was recently described to impede growth of NB cell lines. However, the relevance of TACR1 in clinical settings is unknown.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We investigated gene expression levels of full-length and truncated TACR1 in 59 neuroblastomas and correlated these data with the patients' clinical parameters such as outcome, metastasis, International Neuroblastoma Staging System (INSS) status, MYCN proto-oncogene, bHLH transcription factor (MYCN) status, gender and age.RESULTS: Our results indicated that TACR1 is ubiquitously expressed in neuroblastoma but expression levels are independent of clinical parameters.CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that TACR1 might serve as a potent anticancer target in a large variety of patients with neuroblastoma, independent of tumor biology and clinical stage. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Biomarkers, Tumor#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#N-Myc Proto-Oncogene Protein#Neoplasm Staging#Neuroblastoma#Prognosis#Receptors, Neurokinin-1#Survival Rate#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: An example of plant-derived compounds that may be of great importance in oncological therapy is emodin. The aim of this study was to evaluate the range of changes in the lysosomal compartment of HeLa cervical cancer cells treated with emodin.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Changes in the lysosomal compartment were evaluated using microscopic techniques. In order to evaluate the activity of lysosomal enzymes and the permeability of the lysosomal membrane, a spectrophotometric technique was employed.RESULTS: Emodin induced significant changes in the lysosomal compartment, manifesting as an increase in the number of lysosomes, autophagic vacuoles and the activity of lysosomal hydrolases. Emodin exhibited cytotoxic activity against lysosomes through lysosomal membrane damage with possible leaks of lysosomal hydrolases into the cytoplasm.CONCLUSION: Emodin induces degradation processes and promotes the death of tumor cells through a mechanism that occurs with clear involvement of the lysosomal compartment. labels: #Apoptosis#Autophagy#Cell Proliferation#Emodin#Female#Humans#Hydrolases#Lysosomes#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms#Vacuoles'
b'Tetrandrine is an alkaloid extracted from a traditional China medicine plant, and is considered part of food therapy as well. In addition, it has been widely reported to induce apoptotic cell death in many human cancer cells. However, the mechanism of Tetrandrine on human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cells (NPC) is still questioned. In our study, we examined whether Tetrandrine can induce apoptosis of NPC-TW 039 cells. We found that cell morphology was changed after treatment with different concentrations of Tetrandrine. Further, we indicated that the NPC-TW 039 cells viability decreased in a Tetrandrine dose-dependent manner. We also found that tetrandrine induced cell cycle arrest in G0/G1phase. Tetrandrine induced DNA condensation by DAPI staining as well. In addition, we found that Tetrandrine induced Ca2+release in the cytosol. At the same time, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress occurred. Then we used western blotting to examine the protein expression which is associated with mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways and caspase-dependent pathways. To further examine whether Ca2+was released or not with Tetrandrine induced-apoptosis, we used the chelator of Ca2+and showed that cell viability increased. At the same time, caspase-3 expression was decreased. Furthermore, confocal microscopy examination revealed that Tetrandrine induced expression of ER stress-related proteins GADD153 and GRP78. Our results indicate that Tetrandrine induces apoptosis through calcium-mediated ER stress and caspase pathway in NPC-TW 039 cells. In conclusion, Tetrandrine may could be used for treatment of human nasopharyngeal carcinoma in future. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Benzylisoquinolines#Calcium#Calpain#Carcinoma#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Middle Aged#Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms#Reactive Oxygen Species#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Second mitochondria-derived activator of caspase (Smac) is a proapoptogenic mitochondrial protein that antagonizes inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs), resulting in induction of apoptosis. In the present study we investigated the effects of a Smac mimetic in combination with doxorubicin against osteosarcoma.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In vitro effects of the combination of a Smac mimetic AT-406 and doxorubicin on cell proliferation and apoptosis in osteosarcoma cell lines were examined using cell proliferation assays, flow cytometry, and immunoblot analyses. For in vivo experiments, human osteosarcoma xenografts were treated with combination of the two substances, and tumor volume and apoptotic activity in treated tumors were assessed.RESULTS: In vitro studies revealed that combination of the two substances significantly inhibited osteosarcoma proliferation with decreased cIAP1 expression and induced apoptosis in osteosarcoma cells. Combination of the two substances significantly suppressed osteosarcoma growth in vivo. Moreover, decreased cIAP1 expression and increased apoptotic activity were observed in tumors treated by their combination of the substances.CONCLUSION: The Smac mimetic AT-406 showed an apoptotic effect and a synergistic antitumor effect with doxorubicin on osteosarcoma. The combination of AT-406 and doxorubicin may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for osteosarcoma treatment. labels: #Animals#Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Azocines#Benzhydryl Compounds#Bone Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Oligopeptides#Osteosarcoma#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The neurokinin 3 receptor (NK-3R) is differentially expressed in the central nervous system including cases of human oral squamous cell carcinoma. However, the role of NK-3R signaling in oral squamous cell carcinoma is not well known.MATERIALS AND METHODS: NK-3R expression in surgically resected oral squamous cell carcinoma was examined immunohistochemically and the strength of the expression was quantified. We evaluated the function of NK-3R signaling using NK-3R antagonist in human oral squamous cell carcinoma bone invasion mouse model.RESULTS: NK-3R was significantly expressed in tumor cells that had invaded the bone matrix compared to the oral side tumor cells. SB222200, a selective antagonist of NK-3R, significantly suppressed the radiographic osteolytic lesion and tumorigenesis.CONCLUSION: NK-3R signaling is a potential target for the treatment of oral squamous cell carcinoma in cases of bone destruction. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Bone Resorption#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Mouth Neoplasms#Prognosis#Quinolines#Receptors, Neurokinin-3#Retrospective Studies#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Previous evidence demonstrates that trehalose liposomes (DMTreC14) composed of L-\xce\xb1-dimyristoylphosphatidylcholine (DMPC) and \xce\xb1-D-glycopyranosyl-\xce\xb1-D-glucopyranoside monomyristate (TreC14) inhibit proliferation and invasion on lung carcinoma (A549 cells) in vitro. Here, we aimed to investigate suppressive effects of DMTreC14 on the growth of tumor on human lung carcinoma bearing mice.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DMTreC14 composed of 30 mol% DMPC and 70 mol% TreC14 were prepared by the sonication method. Anti-tumor activities of DMTreC14 using the subcutaneous and orthotopic graft-bearing mice of A549 cells were investigated in vivo.RESULTS: The remarkable reduction of volume and weight in subcutaneous tumors on subcutaneous lung carcinoma-bearing mice topically administrated with DMTreC14 were obtained. Apoptotic-positive cells in the subcutaneous tumor slice of subcutaneous lung carcinoma-bearing mice topically administrated with DMTreC14 were observed using TUNEL staining. Lung weights on the orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma intravenously administrated with DMTreC14 were markedly decreased compared to those of the control group. Remarkable decrease in dimensions of tumor area of lung on the orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma intravenously administrated with DMTreC14 was obtained in histological analysis using the hematoxylin and eosin staining.CONCLUSION: Remarkably high anti-tumor activities of DMTreC14 for the subcutaneous and orthotopic graft-bearing mice of lung carcinoma accompanied with apoptosis were revealed for the first time in vivo. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Liposomes#Lung Neoplasms#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Trehalose#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND: Several reports have shown that the overexpression of the MET proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (MET), was more frequently observed in clear cell carcinoma (CCC) than in non-CCC. We evaluated the antitumor activity of cabozantinib, that targets MET.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A gene expression analysis of tumors from human ovarian cancers was carried out by transcriptome sequencing. An in vitro 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay (MTT assay) and in vivo experiments were performed to determine the activity of cabozantinib.RESULTS: The MET levels were higher in tumors with CCC than high-grade serous carcinoma (2.2-fold). Cabozantinib inhibited cell viability and phosphorylation of AKT and MAPK under the treatment of hepatocyte growth factor in RMG-I CCC cells. The tumors removed from mice given cabozantinib of 10 mg/kg weighed 70% less than control on day 15, and the immunohistochemical reactivity of phosphorylated MET was reduced compared with control mice.CONCLUSION: Cabozantinib contributes to tumor reduction, and phosphorylated MET represents an attractive target of CCC. labels: #Adenocarcinoma, Clear Cell#Anilides#Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Female#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Ovarian Neoplasms#Phosphorylation#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Pyridines#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Although pterostilbene, a natural analog of resveratrol, has potent antitumor activity against several human cancer types, the possible inhibitory mechanisms against subtypes of human breast cancer with different hormone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status remain unknown. We investigated the anticancer activity of pterostilbene using three subtypes of breast cancer cell lines. Pterostilbene treatment exhibited a dose-dependent antiproliferative activity, with the greatest growth inhibition observed in triple-negative MDA-MB-468 cells. Although pterostilbene arrested cell-cycle progression at the G0/G1phase regardless of breast cancer subtype, its apoptosis-inducing activity was highly apparent in MDA-MB-468 cells. Pterostilbene induced strong and sustained activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2, with concomitant cyclin D1 suppression and p21 up-regulation, and inhibited the phosphorylation of AKT and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), followed by subsequent up-regulation of BAX without affecting B-cell lymphoma-extra large (BCL-xL). Oral administration of pterostilbene significantly suppressed tumor growth in nude mice xenotransplanted with MDA-MB-468 cells. These data suggest a potential role of pterostilbene for prevention and treatment of human breast cancer, especially of triple-negative breast cancer. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Apoptosis#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Cyclin D1#Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases#Female#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Phosphorylation#Receptor, ErbB-2#Stilbenes#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Eleven piperic acid esters were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis based on their cytotoxicity and tumor-specificity, in order to find their new biological activities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity against four human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and three oral normal mesenchymal cells was determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) method. Tumor specificity (TS) was evaluated by the ratio of the mean 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) against normal cells to that against tumor cell lines. Potency-selectivity expression (PSE) value was calculated by dividing the TS value by CC50against tumor cells. Apoptosis markers were detected by western blot analysis. Physicochemical, structural and quantum-chemical parameters were calculated based on the conformations optimized by force-field minimization.RESULTS: One phenylmethyl ester and five phenylethyl esters showed relatively higher cytotoxicity and tumor specificity, that were significantly modified by introduction of hydroxyl and methoxy groups. On the other hand, phenylpropyl ester, phenylbutyl ester and decyl ester were essentially inactive. (2E,4E)-5-(3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl)-2,4-pentadienoic acid 2-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl)ethyl ester [4] had the highest TS and PSE values. This compound also stimulated the cleavage of caspase-3, suggesting the induction of apoptosis. TS values were correlated with molecular size, ionization potential, molecular shape, ionization potential and electronegativity. None of the compounds had any anti-HIV activity.CONCLUSION: Chemical modification of the lead compound may be a potential choice for designing a new type of anticancer drugs. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Child#Esters#Fatty Acids, Unsaturated#Female#HIV#Humans#Molecular Structure#Mouth Neoplasms#Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The synergistic combinations of natural products have long been the basis of Traditional Chinese herbal Medicine formulas. In this study, we investigated the synergistic effects of a combination of berberine and evodiamine against human breast cancer MCF-7 cells in vitro and in vivo, and explored its mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cell survival was measured using the MTT assay. Apoptosis-related proteins were observed using western blot analysis. Apoptosis was detected with flow cytometric analysis and by Hoechst 33258 staining. Tumor xenografts were used in vivo.RESULTS: Compared to berberine or evodiamine treatments alone, the combination treatment of berberine (25 \xce\xbcM) and evodiamine (15 \xce\xbcM) synergistically inhibited the proliferation of MCF-7 cells in a time-dependent manner and resulted in the G0/G1phase accumulation of cells that exhibited increased expression levels of the CDK inhibitors p21 and p27 with a concomitant reduction in the expression levels of cell-cycle checkpoint proteins cyclin D1, cyclin E, CDK4, and CDK6. Furthermore, the combination treatment induced apoptosis that was accompanied by increased expression levels of p53 and Bax, reduced expression levels of Bcl-2, activation of caspase-7, and caspase-9, and the cleavage of PARP. The combination of berberine and evodiamine synergistically inhibited tumor growth in vivo in MCF-7 human breast cancer xenografts.CONCLUSION: Combination of berberine and evodiamine acts synergistically to suppress the proliferation of MCF-7 cells by inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, illustrating the potential synergistic and combinatorial application of bioactive natural products. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Berberine#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Cycle#Cell Proliferation#Drug Synergism#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Quinazolines#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Seventeen aurones were subjected to quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) analysis based on their cytotoxicity and tumor-specificity, in order to find their new biological activities.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity against three human oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and three oral mesenchymal cells was determined by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) method. Tumor specificity (TS) was evaluated by the ratio of the mean 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) against normal cells to that against tumor cell lines. Potency-selectivity expression (PSE) value was calculated by dividing TS by CC50against tumor cells. Physicochemical, structural and quantum-chemical parameters were calculated based on the conformations optimized by force-field minimization.RESULTS: Sixteen out of seventeen aurones showed relatively higher cytotoxicity and tumor specificity. Among them, (2Z)-2-[(4-hydroxyphenyl)methylene]-3(2H)-benzofuranone [7] showed the highest TS value and PSE values, comparable with those of doxorubicin and higher than 5-FU, respectively. TS values were correlated with molecular shape, size and polarizability rather than the types of substituted groups.CONCLUSION: Chemical modification of the lead compound may be a potential choice for designing a new type of anticancer drugs. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzofurans#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Cell Proliferation#Child#Female#Humans#Molecular Structure#Mouth Neoplasms#Quantitative Structure-Activity Relationship#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic, is now increasingly used as an off-label indication for the management of cancer patients with chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). However, how olanzapine affects cancer cells per se remains poorly understood.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of olanzapine treatment and survivin knockdown, alone or in combination with chemotherapeutic agents, on survivin expression and cell viability were investigated in human cancer cell lines.RESULTS: Olanzapine reduced survivin expression in lung and pancreatic cancer stem cell (CSC) lines and sensitized them to chemotherapeutic agents such as 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, and cisplatin in a survivin expression-dependent manner. Olanzapine also reduced survivin expression and chemosensitized serum-cultured, non-CSC ovarian cancer cells that expressed survivin.CONCLUSION: Olanzapine may benefit cancer patients not only as an antiemetic for CINV, but also by enhancing the effects of chemotherapeutic agents through down-regulation of survivin, which has been implicated in multidrug chemoresistance. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Antipsychotic Agents#Apoptosis#Benzodiazepines#Cell Proliferation#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Humans#Inhibitor of Apoptosis Proteins#Lung Neoplasms#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Cancer cells consume high amounts of glucose to produce ATP and molecules entering biosynthesis. Numerous experimental studies have demonstrated that glucose deprivation and/or glycolysis inhibition arrest cancer cell growth and may increase the efficiency of cytotoxic drugs. In contrast, increasing glycolysis in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) activates these cells that destroy cancer cells. We propose to increase the efficiency of chemotherapy by modulating glucose intake during the course of chemotherapy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Glucose and caloric intake should be drastically reduced the day before and during chemotherapy administration to deprive cancer cells of ATP and molecules required to repair cytotoxic lesions. Few hours after chemotherapy, glucose and caloric intake should be drastically increased for few days to promote the activation of TILs that reinforce the destruction of cancer cells.RESULTS: This strategy could improve the results of chemotherapy by first enhancing cytotoxic stress against tumor cells and then promoting activation of the anti-cancer immune response.CONCLUSION: The modulation of glucose intake during chemotherapy should be tested clinically. The proposed scheme is simple, surely easier to follow than a strict chronic diet, and should avoid weight loss. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Glucose#Glycolysis#Humans#Lymphocytes, Tumor-Infiltrating#Neoplasms#Oxidation-Reduction'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Silica nanoparticles (nano-SiO2) are widely used in many industrial areas and there is much controversy surrounding cytotoxic effects of such nanoparticles. In order to determine the toxicity and possible molecular mechanisms involved, we conducted several tests with two breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T.MATERIALS AND METHODS: After exposure to nano-SiO2, growth, apoptosis, motility of breast cancer cells were monitored. In addition, modulation of signal transduction induced by nano-SiO2was detected through western blot analysis.RESULTS: Treatment of nano-SiO2repressed the growth of breast cancer cell lines. It also increased apoptosis and reduced cell motility. Moreover, exposure to nano-SiO2significantly disturbed the dimerization of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), followed by down-regulation of its downstream cellular sarcoma kinase (c-SRC) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling cascades.CONCLUSION: Nano-SiO2has a cytotoxic effect on MDA-MB-231 and Hs578T breast cancer cells via modulation of EGFR signaling cascades. labels: #Antibiotics, Antineoplastic#Apoptosis#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Doxorubicin#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Nanoparticles#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction#Silicon Dioxide#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (MYD88), which activates the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-\xce\xbaB) pathway, is important for the growth of lymphoma and leukaemia cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of ST2825, a synthetic peptidomimetic compound which inhibits MYD88 homodimerization, on their growth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seven lymphoma and leukaemia cell lines including TMD8, a B-cell lymphoma line with MYD88-activating mutation, were treated with ST2825 and analysed for cell proliferation and expression of NF-\xce\xbaB signalling-related molecules.RESULTS: ST2825 suppressed the growth of all cell lines by inducing apoptosis and down-regulating phosphorylation of NF-\xce\xbaB pathway components inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase (I\xce\xbaB) and reticuloendotheliosis oncogene A (RelA), as well as of MYD88 activator Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK), suggesting that MYD88 may affect BTK activity. ST2825 effects were specific as MYD88-targeting siRNA also suppressed phosphorylation of NF-\xce\xbaB signalling proteins and BTK in TMD8 cells.CONCLUSION: ST2825 may be a novel drug targeting not only B-lymphoid malignancies with MYD88 mutations, but also lymphoma and leukaemia with wild-type MYD88. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Heterocyclic Compounds, 2-Ring#Humans#Leukemia#Lymphoma#Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88#Spiro Compounds#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Pancreatic cancer is one of the deadliest human cancers. In the current study, we investigated the possibility of a new treatment strategy using a combination of the new fluoroquinolone, enoxacin, and mild ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation. Enoxacin with UVA irradiation increased the number of annexin V-positive (apoptotic) pancreatic cancer cells in time- and concentration-dependent manners, whereas alone neither had these effects. In addition, enoxacin with UVA irradiation induced cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase in AsPC1 human pancreatic cancer cells. Moreover, the singlet oxygen scavengers, histidine and sodium azide, and the hydroxyl radical scavenger, mannitol, significantly suppressed apoptosis induced by enoxacin and UVA irradiation, respectively. These results suggest that UVA irradiation activates enoxacin, after which activated enoxacin induces apoptosis of AsPC1 cells through generation of reactive oxygen species. Therefore, the combination of enoxacin with mild UVA irradiation may be a useful method for treating pancreatic cancer. labels: #Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Enoxacin#Humans#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases#Reactive Oxygen Species#Topoisomerase II Inhibitors#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Ultraviolet Rays'
b'AIMS: Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs) are usually diagnosed in an advanced stage. Most patients with PanNETs die of metastasis. Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) is a strong stimulator of angiogenesis and tumor metastasis. We aimed to investigate the effect of MART-10 [19-nor-2\xce\xb1-(3-hydroxypropyl)-1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3], a 1\xce\xb1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D3 (1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3) analog, on PanNET cell metastasis after VEGF-A stimulation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Migration and invasion assays, western blot, and immunofluorescent staining were applied in this study.RESULTS: VEGF-A increased PanNET cell migration and invasion, which was attenuated by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10. VEGF-A treatment stimulated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of PanNET cells. During this process, expression of snail family transcriptional repressor 1 and 2, and fibronectin was up-regulated. 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10 counteracted VEGF-A-induced EMT. In addition, expression of neuropilin 1, a key protein in VEGF-A signaling, was down-regulated by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10. Furthermore, synthesis of F-actin was increased by VEGF-A and reduced by 1\xce\xb1,25(OH)2D3and MART-10.CONCLUSION: Our data indicate that MART-10 could be deemed a promising drug for PanNET treatment. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cholecalciferol#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Insulinoma#Rats#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Numerous evidence has shown that PEITC and BITC inhibit cancer cell migration and invasion. In this study, we investigated the anti-metastatic mechanisms of PEITC and BITC in human melanoma cancer A375.S2 cells in vitro.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used a cell viability assay, an in-vitro scratch wound healing assay, a transwell assay for cell migration and invasion, a gelatin zymography assay, western blotting and EMSA to examine the anti-metastatic mechanisms of PEITC and BITC in A375.S2 cells.RESULTS: Sublethal concentrations of PEITC (0, 1, 2 and 2.5 \xce\xbcM) and BITC (0, 0.5, 1 and 2 \xce\xbcM) inhibited mobility, migration and invasion of A375.S2 cells that were assayed by wound healing and Transwell filter. PEITC and BITC inhibited MMP-2 activity in A375.S2 cells, as assessed by gelatin zymography assay. Results from western blotting indicated that PEITC (2.5 \xce\xbcM) and BITC (2 \xce\xbcM) decreased the levels of p-p38 following 24 and 48 h treatment. PEITC (1-2.5 \xce\xbcM) reduced the levels of p-JNK1/2 proteins following 48-h treatment but BITC increased p-JNK1/2 levels following 24-h treatment. PEITC (2.5 \xce\xbcM) reduced the levels of p-ERK1/2 proteins following 48-h treatment but BITC (0.5-2 \xce\xbcM) increased p-ERK1/2 levels following 24- and 48-h treatment. PEITC and BITC affect cell migration and invasion of A375.S2 cells via MAPK pathway. PEITC and BITC inhibited MMP-2 activity. PEITC increased NF-\xce\xbaB expression but BITC decreased NF-\xce\xbaB expression in the nucleus. Furthermore, NF-\xce\xbaB p65 binding to DNA was decreased following 2.5 \xce\xbcM PEITC treatment, but increased following treatment with 1-2 \xce\xbcM. However, 0.5-2 \xce\xbcM BITC treatment decreased the binding of NF-\xce\xbaB to DNA in A375.S2 cells, as assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift (EMSA) assay.CONCLUSION: Based on these observations, we suggest that PEITC and BITC can be used as anti-metastastic agents of human melanoma cells in the future. labels: #Anticarcinogenic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Isothiocyanates#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Melanoma#NF-kappa B#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Signal Transduction#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'BACKGROUND: Mifepristone has gained great interest in its potential as a novel agent against human cancers, including prostate cancer (PCa). However, recent clinical trials using mifepristone in PCa and other cancers have been disappointing. We evaluated the in vitro and in vivo activities of mifepristone, in combination with docetaxel and enzalutamide, against bone metastatic castration-resistant PCa.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effects of mifepristone, alone or in combination with docetaxel or enzalutamide, on PCa cell viability, in vitro, were determined by the colorimetric assay. Intratibial model of C4-2-Luc tumors in athymic nude mice was used to evaluate the in vivo efficacy of mifepristone alone or in combination with docetaxel or enzalutamide. Tumor growth in mouse bone was assessed by serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and radiography.RESULTS: Although mifepristone exhibits a certain degree of synergism with docetaxel or enzalutamide in cell culture, statistical analyses showed that combination regimens fail to demonstrate effectiveness in suppressing the skeletal growth of PCa and enhancing the in vivo efficacy of docetaxel or enzalutamide in athymic nude mice (p>0.05).CONCLUSION: These results provide the first pre-clinical evidence suggesting that mifepristone may not effectively inhibit bone metastatic PCa, either as a single agent or combined with standard chemotherapy and androgen-deprivation therapy. This report may raise concerns over the clinical use of mifepristone in the management of advanced PCa. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#Bone Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Hormone Antagonists#Humans#Male#Mice#Mifepristone#Phenylthiohydantoin#Prostatic Neoplasms, Castration-Resistant#Taxoids#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Lactoperoxidase (LPO) is an antimicrobial protein present in milk, saliva, gastric secretions, tears and upper respiratory tract secretions. LPO constitutes an important enzyme of the human immune defense system. However, LPO has also been suggested to be involved in breast cancer etiology through production of reactive free radicals and activation of carcinogenic aromatic compounds. Aromatic compounds are generally highly lipophilic and thus accumulate in highly fatty breast tissues. The aromatic compounds 4-aminobiphenyl (ABP) and 4,4'-diaminobiphenyl (BZ) are known to have carcinogenic properties. LPO catalyzes their oxidation and converts them into reactive products which bind to DNA and form adducts. These DNA adducts subsequently lead to breast cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The crystal structure of LPO was obtained from Protein Data Bank. Structures of ABP and BZ were retrieved from PubChem database. Induced Fit Docking was performed using glide module from Schrodinger.RESULTS: The present study reports the structural binding of ABP and BZ with LPO using in silico approaches. The amino acid residues of LPO involved in the binding with the two aromatic ligands were characterized and binding energy values were calculated.CONCLUSION: Both ABP and BZ were placed in the substrate binding site present in the distal heme cavity of LPO with good affinity. The binding mode mimicked that of the natural substrate since these compounds did not disturb the water molecule that plays an important role in the oxidation reaction. Thus, the water molecule is potentially available for facilitating the subsequent activation of the aromatic amines to reactive species which may form DNA adducts leading to breast cancer. labels: #Aminobiphenyl Compounds#Binding Sites#Breast Neoplasms#Carcinogens#DNA Adducts#Female#Free Radicals#Humans#Lactoperoxidase#Models, Molecular#Molecular Docking Simulation#Molecular Structure#Oxidation-Reduction#Protein Conformation"
b'AIM: We investigated the effect of photodynamic therapy (PDT) using radachlorin on invasion, vascular formation and apoptosis by targeting epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2) signaling pathways in the HEC-1-A endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line.MATERIALS AND METHODS: To investigate the apoptotic pathway, we performed the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and western blot analysis. We also evaluated the effects of PDT on tubular capillary formation in and invasion by HEC-1-A cells with a tube formation assay, invasion assay, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) assay, and western blot analysis.RESULTS: PDT had anticancer effects on HEC-1-A through activation of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis via caspase-9 and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). PDT also inhibited tubular capillary formation in and invasion by HEC-1-A under VEGF pretreatment, that resulted from down-regulation of VEGFR2, EGFR, Ras homolog gene family/ member A (RhoA) and PGE2. These results are indicative of the specificity of radachlorin-mediated PDT to VEGF.CONCLUSION: The major advantage of radachlorin-mediated PDT is its selectivity for cancer tissue while maintaining adjacent normal endometrial tissue. Therefore, radachlorin-mediated PDT might offer high anticancer efficacy for endometrial adenocarcinoma and an especially useful modality for preserving fertility. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Apoptosis#Cell Proliferation#Drug Combinations#Endometrial Neoplasms#Female#Humans#Light#Photochemotherapy#Photosensitizing Agents#Porphyrins#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Tumor Cells, Cultured#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#rhoA GTP-Binding Protein'
b'BACKGROUND: A newly-synthesized derivative of renieramycin M (RM), an anticancer lead compound isolated from the blue sponge Xestospongia sp., hydroquinone 5-O-cinnamoyl ester (CIN-RM), was investigated here for its activity against non-small cell lung cancer cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cytotoxicity effects of CIN-RM and RM on H292 lung cancer cells were determined by the MTT assay. We also investigated the mechanism of CIN-RM-mediated apoptosis and mechanism of action of this compound by western blotting.RESULTS: CIN-RM showed more potent cytotoxicity than its parental compound (RM) against H292 lung cancer cells. At concentrations of 15-60 \xce\xbcM, CIN-RM significantly induced apoptosis by increasing expression of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and activation of caspase-3 and -9. For up-stream mechanism, CIN-RM mediated apoptosis through a p53-dependent mechanism, that consequently down-regulated anti-apoptotic B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL2), while increasing the level of pro-apoptotic BCL2-associated X (BAX). In addition, phosphorylation of pro-survival protein AKT was found to be dramatically reduced.CONCLUSION: This study revealed the potential of CIN-RM for apoptosis induction and in the development of a novel anticancer agent. labels: #Apoptosis#Apoptosis Inducing Factor#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Caspase 3#Caspase 9#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Hydroquinones#Lung Neoplasms#Signal Transduction#Tetrahydroisoquinolines'
b'Colchicine is an alkaloid widely used for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, such as gout. It suppresses cell division by inhibiting mitosis. We investigated the anticancer effects of colchicine on human hypopharyngeal cancer cells and the mechanisms underlying its anticancer effects. XTT cell proliferation assay showed that colchicine inhibited the growth and proliferation of human hypopharyngeal cancer cells (FaDu and SNU1041) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Colchicine also inhibited the migration, invasion, and adhesion of hypopharyngeal cancer cells in a dose-dependent manner. The levels of mRNA expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) decreased after treatment with colchicine. Further investigation revealed that colchicine inhibited the phosphorylation of the FAK/SRC complex and paxillin. Tumor volume ratios in colchicine-treated mice (0.1 mg/kg, every 2 days for 14 days) increased less than in control mice. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing that colchicine can suppress cell invasion, migration, and adhesion through reduced expression of MMP9, the uPA system, and the FAK/SRC complex. Colchicine has the potential to prevent disease progression in hypopharyngeal cancer and may have application as an adjunctive treatment. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Colchicine#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Hypopharyngeal Neoplasms#Matrix Metalloproteinase 9#Mice#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Urokinase-Type Plasminogen Activator#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Compound Batatasin III isolated from Dendrobium draconis Rchb.f. was tested for the possible anti-cancer activities including anti-proliferative, anti-migration and invasion in human non-small lung cancer H460 cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The effect of Batatasin III on viability and proliferation of H460 cells was investigated by the 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5diphenyl tetrazoliumbromide (MTT) assay. Migration and invasion assays were performed. Filopodia formation was determined by phalloidin-rhodamine staining. The hallmark signaling proteins in regulation of epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), proliferation, and migration were determined by western blot analysis.RESULTS: Batatasin III at concentrations lower than 100 \xce\xbcM has no cytotoxic effects. The compound at 25-100 \xce\xbcM exhibited anti-proliferative activity at 48 h after treatment. Regarding cell motility, Batatasin III decreased migration and invasion of cells. Filopodia were found to be significantly reduced in Batatasin III treated cells. These effects correlated with the results from western blot analysis showing that the phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase on Try397 (p-FAK (Try397)), the active protein kinase B (AKT), and cell division cycle 42 (CDC42) were significantly reduced. Besides, Batatasin III significantly suppressed EMT indicated by the decrease of N-cadherin and Vimentin, and up-regulation of E-cadherin.CONCLUSION: Batatasin III has anti-cancer activities; inhibits cancer migration and invasion by suppressing EMT. Our findings establish Batatasin III as a potential compound for further studies aimed at finding a better, more effective treatment approach for lung cancer. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Down-Regulation#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Focal Adhesion Kinase 1#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction#Stilbenes'
b"BACKGROUND/AIM: Heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) inhibitors have recently been tested as anticancer drugs in a variety of carcinomas. Yet, there exist only few reports about HSP90 inhibitor and its thepeutic effect on liposarcoma. The therapeutic effects of HSP90 inhibitors have been mainly observed in oncogenic and tumor angiogenic signaling cascades by observing tumor growth.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the the LPS 246 liposarcoma cell line and GS-076 PDC (patient-derived cell lines). On these, we performed cell viability assays and migration assays under treatment with the HSP90 inhibitor, 17AAG. For analyzing angiogenesis factor, we used quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) after treating cells with the 17AAG inhibitor. Regarding in vivo assay, we made the tumor model in immune-deficient mouse and compared the tumor size of drug-treated group at each time point with controls. For sequestering analysis of angiogenesis factor in vivo, we performed immuno-fluorescence (IF) staining on tumor tissue.RESULTS: Through cell viability, migration assay and qPCR about angiogenesis factor, we demonstrated the anti-oncogenic and anti-angiogenic effects of an HSP90 inhibitor on a liposarcoma cell line and a patient-derived primary cell model (PDC). Also, the HSP90 inhibitor 17AAG effectively inhibited the activity of protein kinase B (AKT) and blocked extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity. Hence, 17AAG effectively disrupted the oncogenic signaling cascade and substantially inhibited tumor growth in vitro. In an LPS 863 cell xenograft mouse model treated with 17AAG, we observed that tumor size was decreasing, as well as down-regulation of the expression levels of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), CD31 and signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3).CONCLUSION: 17AAG reduced the activity of AKT, ERK, VEGF and STAT3 in oncogenic and angiogenic pathways in liposarcoma PDC models derived from patients' tissues and cancer cell lines. labels: #Angiogenesis Inhibitors#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Benzoquinones#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins#Humans#Lactams, Macrocyclic#Liposarcoma#Mice#STAT3 Transcription Factor#Signal Transduction#Tumor Burden#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'BACKGROUND/AIM: The purpose of this study was to investigate the mechanism by which agmatine sulfate induces an anti-metastatic effect in human HT1080 fibrosarcoma cells, by affecting matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs).MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the experiments, we used a non-toxic concentration of agmatine, below 512 \xce\xbcM, that was determined using an MTT assay. The effect of agmatine sulfate on metastasis was gelatin zymography, western blot, immunofluorescence staining and cell invasion assay.RESULTS: Agmatine sulfate inhibited MMP-2 activity stimulated by phenazine methosulfate (PMS). Furthermore, the expression level of MMP-2 stimulated by PMS, was decreased, but the expression level of TIMP-1 was increased in the presence of agmatine sulfate. Moreover, it was observed that the expression levels of ERK and p38 were increased, but those of PI3K and Akt-1 associated with the modulation of MMP-2 were decreased in this study. Furthermore, agmatine sulfate decreased the invasion level of human fibrosarcoma cells stimulated by VEGF.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that agmatine sulfate could inhibit metastasis through inhibition of MMP-2 via the PI3K/Akt-1 signaling pathway. labels: #Agmatine#Antineoplastic Agents#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Fibrosarcoma#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction'
b"This study was designed to evaluate the effect of ovariectomy on nutrikinetics of genistein metabolites. To characterize the time-dependent changes in genistein metabolite concentrations, we identified 13 genistein metabolites using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The nutrikinetics of the individual metabolites at different time points were analyzed. Nutrikinetic analysis showed that genistein, genistein 4'-glucuronide, genistein 7-glucuronide, 3-hydroxygenistein, and hippuric acid showed relatively high bioavailability in the sham group compared to that in the ovariectomy group, suggesting that ovariectomy likely results in lower genistein bioavailability. These results may be related to alteration of gut microbiota by ovariectomy. The relative abundance of species of the Parabacteroides, Dorea, and Butyricimonas genera, and Desulfovibrionaceae_unclassified, Lachnospiraceae_unclassified, and Rikenellaceae_unclassified families increased in the ovariectomy group while the relative abundance of 523_7_unclassified and Y52_unclassified_unclassified increased in the sham group. These results suggest that gut microbiota alteration by ovariectomy may affect genistein bioavailability. labels: #Animals#Biological Availability#Chromatography, Liquid#Female#Genistein#Mass Spectrometry#Mice#Ovariectomy"
b'Circadian clocks drive biological rhythms with a period of approximately 24 hours and keep in time with the outside world through daily resetting by environmental cues. While this external entrainment has been extensively investigated in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the role of internal systemic rhythms, including daily fluctuations in core temperature or circulating hormones remains debated. Here, we show that lactating mice, which exhibit dampened systemic rhythms, possess normal molecular clockwork but impaired rhythms in both heat shock response gene expression and electrophysiological output in their SCN. This suggests that body rhythms regulate SCN activity downstream of the clock. Mathematical modeling predicts that systemic feedback upon the SCN functions as an internal oscillator that accounts for in vivo and ex vivo observations. Thus we are able to propose a new bottom-up hierarchical organization of circadian timekeeping in mammals, based on the interaction in the SCN between clock-dependent and system-driven oscillators. labels: #Animals#Circadian Rhythm#Female#Lactation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Suprachiasmatic Nucleus'
b'INTRODUCTION: Intrathecal immunoglobulin G (IgG) and oligoclonal bands (OCBs) are the most consistent and characteristic features of Multiple Sclerosis (MS). OCBs in MS are considered products of clonally expanded B cells in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), representing the sum of contributions from B cells in the brain. However, large amounts of IgG can be eluted from MS plaques in which lymphocytes are absent, and there is no correlation between levels of plaque-associated IgG and the presence of lymphocytes. It is calculated that it would take 3.2 billion lymphocytes to generate such large amounts of intrathecal IgG (30 mg in 500 ml CSF) in MS patients. Therefore, circulating lymphocytes in CSF could only account for<0.1% of the extra IgG in MS.METHODS: We analyzed clinical laboratory parameters from sera and CSF of 115 patients including 91 patients with MS and 24 patients with other inflammatory central nervous system (CNS) disorders (IC). We investigated the relationship between oligoclonal bands, IgG antibodies, CSF cells, IgG Index, albumin, and total protein.RESULTS: MS patients have significantly elevated serum concentrations of IgG antibodies, albumin, and total protein, lower levels of lymphocytes, albumin, and total protein in the cerebrospinal fluid, but no difference in CSF IgG concentration compared to those with other inflammatory neurological disorders. Furthermore, in MS there was no linear relationship between the numbers of OCBs, CSF lymphocytes, CSF IgG, and IgG Index, and between serum IgG and serum albumin, but significant correlation between IgG in CSF and serum, and between CSF IgG and CSF albumin.CONCLUSION: There are unique differences between MS and patients with other inflammatory neurological disorders. Our data suggest that in MS patient (a) B cells and their products in the CSF may not be the sole source of intrathecal IgG; (b) oligoclonal bands may not be the products of single B cell clones in the CSF; and (c) there is a strong connection between serum components in the peripheral circulation and the central nervous system. labels: #Adult#Blood Proteins#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Lymphocytes#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Oligoclonal Bands'
b'Global analyses of bird communities along elevation gradients suggest that bird diversity on arid mountains is primarily limited by water availability, not temperature or altitude. However, the mechanism by which water availability, and subsequently primary productivity, increases bird diversity is still unclear. Here we evaluate two possible mechanisms from species-energy theory. The more individuals hypothesis proposes that a higher availability of resources increases the total number of individuals that can be supported, and therefore the greater number of species that will be sampled. By contrast, the more specialization hypothesis proposes that increasing resource availability will permit specialists to exploit otherwise rare resources, thus increasing total diversity. We used 5 years of surveys of grassland songbird communities along an elevational gradient in British Columbia, Canada, to distinguish between these hypotheses. Vegetation changed markedly in composition along the gradient and contrary to the expectations of the more specialization hypothesis, bird community composition was remarkably constant. However, both total abundance and species richness of birds increased with increasing water availability to plants. When we used rarefaction to correct species richness for differences in total abundance, much of the increase in bird diversity was lost, consistent with the expectations of the more individuals hypothesis. Furthermore, high species richness was associated with reductions in territory size of common bird species, rather than the fine-scale spatial partitioning of the landscape. This suggests that bird diversity increases when greater resource availability allows higher densities rather than greater habitat specialization. These results help explain a pervasive global pattern in bird diversity on arid mountains, and suggest that in such landscapes conservation of grassland birds is strongly linked to climate and hydrology. labels: #Animals#Biodiversity#British Columbia#Grassland#Songbirds'
b'There are differences in sleep duration between Blacks/African-Americans and Whites/European-Americans. Recently, we found differences between these ancestry groups in the circadian system, such as circadian period and the magnitude of phase shifts. Here we document the role of ancestry on sleep and cognitive performance before and after a 9-h advance in the sleep/wake schedule similar to flying east or having a large advance in sleep times due to shiftwork, both of which produce extreme circadian misalignment. Non-Hispanic African and European-Americans (N = 20 and 17 respectively, aged 21-43 years) were scheduled to four baseline days each with 8 h time in bed based on their habitual sleep schedule. This sleep/wake schedule was then advanced 9 h earlier for three days. Sleep was monitored using actigraphy. During the last two baseline/aligned days and the first two advanced/misaligned days, beginning 2 h after waking, cognitive performance was measured every 3 h using the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) test battery. Mixed model ANOVAs assessed the effects of ancestry (African-American or European-American) and condition (baseline/aligned or advanced/misaligned) on sleep and cognitive performance. There was decreased sleep and impaired performance in both ancestry groups during the advanced/misaligned days compared to the baseline/aligned days. In addition, African-Americans obtained less sleep than European-Americans, especially on the first two days of circadian misalignment. Cognitive performance did not differ between African-Americans and European-Americans during baseline days. During the two advanced/misaligned days, however, African-Americans tended to perform slightly worse compared to European-Americans, particularly at times corresponding to the end of the baseline sleep episodes. Advancing the sleep/wake schedule, creating extreme circadian misalignment, had a greater impact on the sleep of African-Americans than European-Americans. Ancestry differences in sleep appear to be exacerbated when the sleep/wake schedule is advanced, which may have implications for individuals undertaking shiftwork and transmeridian travel. labels: #Adult#African Americans#European Continental Ancestry Group#Humans#Sleep#Sleep Disorders, Circadian Rhythm#Wakefulness#Young Adult'
b'Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) lung disease is increasing globally. Although the etiological epidemiology of NTM is different across regions, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) is the leading cause of NTM lung disease in most countries, including mainland Japan. Okinawa is located in the southernmost region of Japan and is the only prefecture categorized as a subtropical region in Japan, it is therefore likely the etiological epidemiology of NTM lung disease is different from mainland Japan. From 2009 to 2015, the medical records of patients, with respiratory specimens positive for NTMs, visiting or admitted to two Okinawan hospitals, were retrospectively analyzed. NTM lung disease cases were defined according to the American Thoracic Society criteria and patient epidemiology and clinical information were evaluated. Results indicate four hundred sixteen patients had bacterial cultures positive for NTM. The most common NTM was M. abscessus complex (MABC) (n = 127; 30.5%), followed by M. intracellulare (n = 85; 20.4%). NTM lung disease was diagnosed in 114 patients. Of these cases, MABC was most common (n = 41; 36.0%), followed by M. intracellulare (n = 31; 27.2%). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and tracheostomy patients were more likely to develop MABC than MAC lung disease. Multivariate analysis showed a probable association between COPD and MABC lung disease. Chest computed tomography (CT) evaluation revealed bronchiectasis, nodules, and consolidation were less frequently observed in MABC patients compared with MAC patients. Our data suggests Okinawa may be one of the few places where MABC is the predominant pathogen causing NTM lung disease and our results add new insight to MABC lung disease, which is not yet well understood. labels: #Hospitals#Humans#Japan#Mycobacterium Infections, Nontuberculous#Radiography, Thoracic#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Tropical Climate'
b'Depressive pathology, which includes both heightened negative affect (e.g., anxiety) and reduced positive affect (e.g., anhedonia), is known to be associated with sub-optimal decision-making, particularly in uncertain environments. Here, we use a computational approach to quantify and disambiguate how individual differences in these affective measures specifically relate to different aspects of learning and decision-making in reward-based choice behavior. Fifty-three individuals with a range of depressed mood completed a two-armed bandit task, in which they choose between two arms with fixed but unknown reward rates. The decision-making component, which chooses among options based on current expectations about reward rates, is modeled by two different decision policies: a learning-independent Win-stay/Lose-shift (WSLS) policy that ignores all previous experiences except the last trial, and Softmax, which prefers the arm with the higher expected reward. To model the learning component for the Softmax choice policy, we use a Bayesian inference model, which updates estimated reward rates based on the observed history of trial outcomes. Softmax with Bayesian learning better fits the behavior of 55% of the participants, while the others are better fit by a learning-independent WSLS strategy. Among Softmax "users", those with higher anhedonia are less likely to choose the option estimated to be most rewarding. Moreover, the Softmax parameter mediates the inverse relationship between anhedonia and overall monetary gains. On the other hand, among WSLS "users", higher state anxiety correlates with increasingly better ability of WSLS, relative to Softmax, to explain subjects\' trial-by-trial choices. In summary, there is significant variability among individuals in their reward-based, exploratory decision-making, and this variability is at least partly mediated in a very specific manner by affective attributes, such as hedonic tone and state anxiety. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Anhedonia#Anxiety#Decision Making#Depression#Female#Humans#Male#Reward#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: The management of childhood infections remains inadequate in resource-limited countries, resulting in high mortality and irrational use of antimicrobials. Current disease management tools, such as the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) algorithm, rely solely on clinical signs and have not made use of available point-of-care tests (POCTs) that can help to identify children with severe infections and children in need of antibiotic treatment. e-POCT is a novel electronic algorithm based on current evidence; it guides clinicians through the entire consultation and recommends treatment based on a few clinical signs and POCT results, some performed in all patients (malaria rapid diagnostic test, hemoglobin, oximeter) and others in selected subgroups only (C-reactive protein, procalcitonin, glucometer). The objective of this trial was to determine whether the clinical outcome of febrile children managed by the e-POCT tool was non-inferior to that of febrile children managed by a validated electronic algorithm derived from IMCI (ALMANACH), while reducing the proportion with antibiotic prescription.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We performed a randomized (at patient level, blocks of 4), controlled non-inferiority study among children aged 2-59 months presenting with acute febrile illness to 9 outpatient clinics in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. In parallel, routine care was documented in 2 health centers. The primary outcome was the proportion of clinical failures (development of severe symptoms, clinical pneumonia on/after day 3, or persistent symptoms at day 7) by day 7 of follow-up. Non-inferiority would be declared if the proportion of clinical failures with e-POCT was no worse than the proportion of clinical failures with ALMANACH, within statistical variability, by a margin of 3%. The secondary outcomes included the proportion with antibiotics prescribed on day 0, primary referrals, and severe adverse events by day 30 (secondary hospitalizations and deaths). We enrolled 3,192 patients between December 2014 and February 2016 into the randomized study; 3,169 patients (e-POCT: 1,586; control [ALMANACH]: 1,583) completed the intervention and day 7 follow-up. Using e-POCT, in the per-protocol population, the absolute proportion of clinical failures was 2.3% (37/1,586), as compared with 4.1% (65/1,583) in the ALMANACH arm (risk difference of clinical failure -1.7, 95% CI -3.0, -0.5), meeting the prespecified criterion for non-inferiority. In a non-prespecified superiority analysis, we observed a 43% reduction in the relative risk of clinical failure when using e-POCT compared to ALMANACH (risk ratio [RR]0.57, 95% CI 0.38, 0.85, p = 0.005). The proportion of severe adverse events was 0.6% in the e-POCT arm compared with 1.5% in the ALMANACH arm (RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.20, 0.87, p = 0.02). The proportion of antibiotic prescriptions was substantially lower, 11.5% compared to 29.7% (RR 0.39, 95% CI 0.33, 0.45, p<0.001). Using e-POCT, the most common indication for antibiotic prescription was severe disease (57%, 103/182 prescriptions), while it was non-severe respiratory infections using the control algorithm (ALMANACH) (70%, 330/470 prescriptions). The proportion of clinical failures among the 544 children in the routine care cohort was 4.6% (25/544); 94.9% (516/544) of patients received antibiotics on day 0, and 1.1% (6/544) experienced severe adverse events. e-POCT achieved a 49% reduction in the relative risk of clinical failure compared to routine care (RR 0.51, 95% CI 0.31, 0.84, p = 0.007) and lowered antibiotic prescriptions to 11.5% from 94.9% (p<0.001). Though this safety study was an important first step to evaluate e-POCT, its true utility should be evaluated through future implementation studies since adherence to the algorithm will be an important factor in making use of e-POCT's advantages in terms of clinical outcome and antibiotic prescription.CONCLUSIONS: e-POCT, an innovative electronic algorithm using host biomarker POCTs, including C-reactive protein and procalcitonin, has the potential to improve the clinical outcome of children with febrile illnesses while reducing antibiotic use through improved identification of children with severe infections, and better targeting of children in need of antibiotic prescription.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02225769. labels: #Age of Onset#Algorithms#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Biomarkers#Child, Preschool#Clinical Decision-Making#Communicable Diseases#Decision Support Techniques#Diagnosis, Computer-Assisted#Diagnosis, Differential#Female#Fever#Heart Rate#Humans#Infant#Male#Mobile Applications#Nutritional Status#Patient Readmission#Patient Selection#Point-of-Care Systems#Point-of-Care Testing#Predictive Value of Tests#Reproducibility of Results#Respiration#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Smartphone#Tanzania"
b'There are limited real-world data on prevalence and predictors of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) prolongation beyond one year after acute coronary syndrome (ACS). We have explored such issue in the START ANTIPLATELET Registry, which is a prospective, observational, multicenter, Italian registry performed in seven Italian cardiology institutions including patients admitted for ACS and followed up to one year. Out of a total population of 840 ACS patients, 596 patients had completed 12-month follow-up being on DAPT. Decision to prolong DAPT beyond one year was taken in 79 patients (13%), whereas in 517 patients DAPT was stopped. The strongest predictors of DAPT continuation were a new cardiovascular events after the index admission event (OR 3.3, 95% CI 1.4-7.7), no bleeding complications (OR 3.2, 95% CI 1.2-8.3) and no anemia during one-year follow-up (OR 2.6, 95% CI 1.1-5.9); other independent predictors were renal failure (OR 2.5, 95% CI 1.3-5.0) and peripheral artery disease (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.1-3.0). The choice of DAPT prolongation was not correlated with younger ager, presence of diabetes mellitus, coronary angioplasty as initial treatment strategy or type of implanted stent (drug-eluting vs bare metal). In conclusion, this study provides a real-world snapshot on the factors influencing the option to continue DAPT beyond one year after ACS; a low bleeding risk seems to influence the choice to prolong DAPT more than a high ischemic risk. labels: #Acute Coronary Syndrome#Aged#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Italy#Male#Middle Aged#Platelet Aggregation Inhibitors#Registries'
b'To identify suitable cell lines for a mimetic system of in vivo blood-brain barrier (BBB) for drug permeability assessment, we characterized two immortalized cell lines, ECV304 and bEnd3 in the respect of the tightness, tight junction proteins, P-glycoprotein (P-gp) function and discriminative brain penetration. The ECV304 monoculture achieved higher transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) and lower permeability to Lucifer yellow than bEnd3. However, co-culture with rat glioma C6 cells impaired the integrity of ECV304 and bEnd3 cell layers perhaps due to the heterogeneity among C6 cells in inducing BBB characteristics. The immunostaining of ZO-1 delivered distinct bands along cell borders on both cell lines while those of occludin and claudin-5 were diffused and weak. P-gp functionality was only proved in bEnd3 by Rhodamine 123 (R123) uptake assay. A permeability test of reference compounds displayed a similar rank order (digoxin<R123<quinidine, verapamil<propranolol) in ECV304 and bEnd3 cells. In comparison with bEnd3, ECV304 developed tighter barrier for the passage of reference compounds and higher discrimination between transcellular and paracellular transport. However, the monoculture models of ECV304 and bEnd3 fail to achieve the sufficient tightness of in vitro BBB permeability models with high TEER and evident immunostaining of tight junction proteins. Further strategies to enhance the paracellular tightness of both cell lines to mimic in vivo BBB tight barrier deserve to be conducted. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B, Member 1#Animals#Blood-Brain Barrier#Cell Line, Transformed#Coculture Techniques#In Vitro Techniques#Permeability#Rats'
b'A fully-automated method based on graph shortest path, graph cut and neutrosophic (NS) sets is presented for fluid segmentation in OCT volumes for exudative age related macular degeneration (EAMD) subjects. The proposed method includes three main steps: 1) The inner limiting membrane (ILM) and the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) layers are segmented using proposed methods based on graph shortest path in NS domain. A flattened RPE boundary is calculated such that all three types of fluid regions, intra-retinal, sub-retinal and sub-RPE, are located above it. 2) Seed points for fluid (object) and tissue (background) are initialized for graph cut by the proposed automated method. 3) A new cost function is proposed in kernel space, and is minimized with max-flow/min-cut algorithms, leading to a binary segmentation. Important properties of the proposed steps are proven and quantitative performance of each step is analyzed separately. The proposed method is evaluated using a publicly available dataset referred as Optima and a local dataset from the UMN clinic. For fluid segmentation in 2D individual slices, the proposed method outperforms the previously proposed methods by 18%, 21% with respect to the dice coefficient and sensitivity, respectively, on the Optima dataset, and by 16%, 11% and 12% with respect to the dice coefficient, sensitivity and precision, respectively, on the local UMN dataset. Finally, for 3D fluid volume segmentation, the proposed method achieves true positive rate (TPR) and false positive rate (FPR) of 90% and 0.74%, respectively, with a correlation of 95% between automated and expert manual segmentations using linear regression analysis. labels: #Automation#Humans#Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Wet Macular Degeneration'
b'BACKGROUND: Depression screening and examination in Indonesia are highly challenging due to the disproportionately low number of mental health professionals in comparison to the Indonesian population. Self-report questionnaires on depression are cost-effective and time-efficient. The current study investigates the psychometric properties of the Indonesian Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology Self Report (IDS-SR).METHODS: The participants were 904 Indonesians (aged 16-61; 50.2% female), recruited via an online survey using Qualtrics. Confirmatory factor analysis of the one-factor, three-factor, and four-factor model were explored. Convergent and divergent validity of the total score of the Indonesian IDS-SR and each factor were examined, as well as the Cronbach\'s Alpha reliability. In addition, an optimal cut-off score for the Indonesian IDS-SR was established using ROC curve analysis.RESULTS: The three-factor model of "cognitive/mood", "anxiety/arousal", and "sleep disturbance" was the best fit with the Indonesian IDS-SR data. Convergent and divergent validity were good. Cronbach\'s Alpha reliability was excellent for the total score, good for the factors "cognitive/mood" and "anxiety/arousal", but insufficient for the factor "sleep disturbance". The optimal cut-off score of the Indonesian IDS-SR was 14, with 87% sensitivity and 86% specificity.CONCLUSIONS: As a multifactorial instrument to measure depression that has good validity and reliability, the Indonesian IDS-SR can be used to assess depressive symptoms for the purpose of research and clinical practice. The optimal cut-off score of the Indonesian IDS-SR is in accordance with the internationally used cut-off score. labels: #Depression#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Humans#Indonesia#Psychometrics#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'Purpose: We quantified retinal and choriocapillaris microvascular changes in healthy control eyes and different stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR) using optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA).Methods: This retrospective cross-sectional study included 137 eyes of 86 patients with different stages of DR and 44 eyes of 26 healthy age-matched controls. Participants were imaged with a commercial OCTA device (RTVue-XR Avanti). We analyzed the superficial (SCP) and deep (DCP) retinal capillary plexus, the full retina, and choriocapillaris for the following OCTA parameters: foveal avascular zone, vessel density, percent area of nonperfusion (PAN), and adjusted flow index (AFI). We adjusted for age, sex, and the correlation between eyes of the same study participant in our statistical models.Results: All OCTA parameters showed a significant linear correlation with DR severity (P<0.05) in the univariate models except for AFI measured in the SCP and these correlations remained significant after correcting for covariates. Compared to the other capillary layers, the AFI at the DCP decreased significantly with DR severity. When comparing individual disease severity groups as categories, eyes of subjects with diabetes without DR had significantly increased PAN and AFI in the SCP compared to healthy subjects (P<0.05).Conclusions: Retinal and choriocapillaris vascular nonperfusion in OCTA is correlated significantly with disease severity in eyes with DR. Higher flow in the SCP may be an early marker of diabetic microvascular changes before clinical signs of DR. The steep decline of blood flow in the DCP with increasing DR severity suggests that alterations at the DCP warrant further investigation. labels: #Blood Flow Velocity#Capillaries#Choroid#Ciliary Arteries#Computed Tomography Angiography#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retinal Neovascularization#Retinal Vessels#Retrospective Studies#Severity of Illness Index#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Objectives: We implemented a policy of reflex serotonin-release assay (SRA) testing for all patients with a positive heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) immunoassay.Methods: We identified all patients who had SRA testing sent as a consequence of a positive HIT immunoassay test. We reviewed charts of patients to calculate the 4Ts clinical score, determined the effect of testing on clinical management, and documented the change in utilization of direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs).Results: The likelihood of a positive SRA varied with the optical density (OD) of the immunoassay. The performance of the immunoglobulin G (IgG)-specific and polytypic enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was not statistically different. Both OD and 4Ts score correlated with the likelihood of a positive SRA but demonstrated poor specificity. Discontinuation of DTIs in patients with negative SRAs resulted in decreased drug utilization.Conclusions: The IgG-specific HIT immunoassay OD correlates with the likelihood of a positive SRA but does not achieve high specificity. The reflex testing algorithm allows for definitive classification of patients, and the cost of such a reflex testing program may be offset by decreased utilization of DTIs. labels: #Algorithms#Anticoagulants#Hematologic Tests#Heparin#Humans#Immunoassay#Platelet Activation#Serotonin#Thrombocytopenia'
b"Purpose: Recent evidence has suggested a potential association between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and glaucoma and found significant deposition of amyloid-\xce\xb2 (A\xce\xb2) and Tau protein in the retinas of glaucoma patients. However, no coherent finding has emerged regarding the AD-like changes in the central visual system (CVS). Studies confirming the presence of A\xce\xb2 and Tau neuropathology are warranted to identify the underlying mechanism that contributes to the visual impairment observed in glaucoma.Methods: A chronic glaucoma model was established in rhesus monkeys. The retina, optic nerve, CVS including the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1), and cognitive areas including the hippocampus (Hpp) were evaluated. A\xce\xb2 1-42 and phosphorylated-Tau (p-Tau) were tested in the aforementioned structure using immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and ELISA, and the neuritic plaques and argyrophilic structures/neurofilaments were observed using silver staining and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).Results: Immunohistochemistry revealed positive A\xce\xb2 and p-Tau labeling in the LGN. According to Western blotting assay and ELISA, A\xce\xb2 and p-Tau were present in the LGN. A\xce\xb2 also was expressed weakly in the primary visual cortex. In contrast, the hippocampus, which is the most severely affected region in AD, showed no positive labeling. Structurally, silver staining and TEM revealed neuritic plaques and argyrophilic structures/neurofibrillary tangles, in the LGN.Conclusions: For the first time to our knowledge, these data collectively establish the existence of hallmark AD-like pathologies in the glaucomatous LGN. Our results may provide new targets for developing research therapies that will enhance neuroprotection in glaucoma patients. labels: #Amyloid beta-Peptides#Animals#Blotting, Western#Disease Models, Animal#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Geniculate Bodies#Glaucoma#Hippocampus#Intraocular Pressure#Macaca mulatta#Male#Neurofibrillary Tangles#Optic Disk#Optic Nerve Diseases#Phosphorylation#Visual Cortex#tau Proteins"
b'Purpose: Adenocarcinomas or adenomas derived from pigmented ciliary epithelium (APCE) are exceptionally rare ocular tumors. These tumors have pigmented and epithelioid features, and some APCEs are negative for keratin markers and positive for melanocytic markers. It is especially difficult to distinguish APCEs from uveal melanoma (UM). Accordingly, we examined protein expression and genetic mutations associated with APCE to facilitate diagnosis.Methods: Five APCE and 11 UM samples were obtained from patients during surgical resection at our institute. APCE and UM ocular structures were compared comprehensively. Protein expression and genetic alterations involved in malignant melanoma were evaluated.Results: SOX10 was expressed diffusely in all 11 UMs and in surrounding uveal or choroidal melanocytes, but not in the APCEs or nontumorous pigmented epithelia. Additionally, the expression patterns of cytokeratins and melanocytic markers differed between UMs and APCEs. We identified BRAF V600E mutations in four of five APCE samples, but not in the 11 UM samples. Moreover, GNAQ or GNA11 mutations were found in 10 of the 11 UM samples, but not in APCE samples. NRAS mutations were not observed in either tumor group examined.Conclusions: APCE is a separate entity distinguished from UM by the absence of SOX10 expression and presence of the BRAF V600E mutation. These results have implications for diagnosis, providing a means to distinguish between UM and APCE. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Adenoma#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Biomarkers, Tumor#Ciliary Body#DNA Mutational Analysis#Female#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits, Gq-G11#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Male#Melanocytes#Melanoma#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Middle Aged#Mutation#Neoplasm Proteins#Pigment Epithelium of Eye#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#SOXE Transcription Factors#Uveal Neoplasms'
b'Purpose: To evaluate the prognosis in Chinese patients with conjunctival melanoma and determine its predictors. Further, to explore the racial differences in clinical characteristics and outcomes between Chinese and Caucasian patients.Methods: This cohort study included 57 eyes of 57 consecutive patients with pathologically verified conjunctival melanoma between 1996 and 2016. Medical records were reviewed for factors associated with the local recurrence, metastasis, and tumor-related mortality. All eligible patients were followed up for these three outcome measures. The demographic data, clinical characteristics, and outcomes were compared between Chinese and Caucasian patients.Results: The mean follow-up period was 52.2 \xc2\xb1 49.4 months. Among the total 57 patients, 29 (51%) patients experienced local recurrence. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year recurrence rate was 31.0%, 59.7%, and 66.4%, respectively. Treatment complications detected in the follow-up included dry eye (32, 56.1%), irregular eyelid margin (25, 43.9%), eyelid retraction (18, 31.6%), blepharoptosis (9, 15.8%), mixed pigmentation of the tarsus reconstructed by mucosal membrane graft, corneal opacities (6, 10.5%), and symblepharon (2, 3.5%). Twenty (35%) patients developed metastasis. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year metastasis rate was 16.7%, 38.7%, and 50.9%, respectively. Fourteen (25%) patients died of conjunctival melanoma, with a median survival time of 24 months. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year tumor-related mortality was 3.8%, 30.5%, and 37.4%, respectively. Tumor hemorrhage is an independent risk factor for tumor-related death (hazard ratio [HR]: 18.81, P = 0.01) and metastasis (HR: 4.57, P = 0.02). Significant differences were noted between Chinese and Caucasians patients from America, Germany, and England in demographics, clinical characteristics, and outcomes. Compared to Caucasians, Chinese patients tended to have more male cases (P<0.01) and to be younger (P = 0.03). At initial presentation, more Chinese patients had de novo tumor origin (P<0.01), epithelioid cell type (P<0.01), nonbulbar tumor location (P<0.01), greater basal diameter (P = 0.04), multifocal tumor (P<0.01), feeder vessels (P<0.01), eyelid (P<0.01) and orbit involvement (P<0.01), and advanced T stages (P<0.01). Over a similar follow-up period with Caucasians patients (52.2 vs. 52 months, P = 0.97), a significantly larger proportion of Chinese patients exhibited eyelid invasion (P = 0.04) and orbital invasion (P<0.01) at follow-up, local recurrence (P<0.01), metastasis (P<0.01), and tumor-related death (P<0.01).Conclusions: Conjunctival melanoma is a rare malignancy with great potential for mortality in Chinese. Special attention should be paid to patients with tumor hemorrhage. Compared to Caucasians, Chinese patients exhibit more aggressive clinical signs with compromised prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#China#Cohort Studies#Conjunctival Neoplasms#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Metastasis#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To investigate the impact of different gas mixtures (hyperoxia, hypoxia, and hypercapnia) on the optic nerve head (ONH) and choroidal (Ch) hemodynamics.Methods: Twenty-three healthy subjects (28 \xc2\xb1 6 years) took part in the study. Variations in inspired oxygen and carbon dioxide fraction were produced by a gas mixing device. Arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) was measured continuously using a transcutaneous sensor and end-tidal carbon dioxide partial pressure by capnography. The experiment comprised three successive periods: 3-minute baseline (room air breathing), 15-minute gas mixture inhalation (normocapnic hypoxia, hypercapnia, or hyperoxia), and 15-minute recovery (room air breathing). Laser Doppler flowmeter parameters-velocity (VEL), volume (VOL), and flow (BF) of red blood cells-were measured. Two-way ANOVAs were performed for statistical analysis.Results: In response to hyperoxia, ONHBF significantly decreased by -18% \xc2\xb1 6% (P = 0.04) from baseline, due to significant changes in VEL (-12% \xc2\xb1 3% P = 0.0002). During hypoxia at 85% SpO2, ONH VEL increased by +12% \xc2\xb1 3% (P = 0.0009), whereas VOL and BF did not change significantly. ChBF significantly increased by +7% \xc2\xb1 2% (P = 0.004) in response to hypoxia, due to significant changes in VEL +5% \xc2\xb1 2% (P = 0.03). Both Ch and ONHBFs did not vary significantly in response to hypercapnia.Conclusions: The magnitude of the blood flow response is the most significant during hyperoxia for ONH and hypoxia for ChBF. For ONHBF, a 37% difference between hyperoxia and hypoxia can be useful when vasoreactivity to O2 will be tested in patients. labels: #Adult#Blood Flow Velocity#Blood Pressure#Carbon Dioxide#Choroid#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Hemodynamics#Humans#Hypercapnia#Hyperoxia#Hypoxia#Intraocular Pressure#Laser-Doppler Flowmetry#Male#Optic Disk#Oxygen#Regional Blood Flow'
b'Purpose: Migraine, particularly with aura, has been associated with ocular and systemic ischemic complications, but there are limited data on the ocular vasculature in migraine. We used optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) to assess perfusion of the macula and optic nerve in migraine patients, with (MA) and without (MO) aura, compared to healthy controls (HC).Methods: We recruited 15 MA (mean age 42 years), 12 MO (mean age 46 years), and 22 HC (mean age 39 years) participants from neurology and neuro-ophthalmology clinics. Participants underwent optical coherence tomography and 3 \xc3\x97 3 mm OCTA of the macula and optic nerve. Foveal avascular zone area was automatically measured using AngioVue software, and vessel density was calculated as blood vessel length divided by scan area (mm-1) after skeletonization of OCTA images.Results: On macular OCTA, MA participants had an enlarged foveal avascular zone area when compared with HC (0.300 \xc2\xb1 0.019 vs. 0.220 \xc2\xb1 0.066 mm2, P = 0.006). In addition, superficial foveal vessel density was decreased in MA participants when compared with MO participants (7.8 \xc2\xb1 0.31 vs. 9.3 \xc2\xb1 0.44, P = 0.04) and HC (7.8 \xc2\xb1 0.31 vs. 9.4 \xc2\xb1 0.21 mm-1, P = 0.002). On optic nerve OCTA, the MA participants had reduced superior peripapillary vessel density when compared with the MO participants (12.0 \xc2\xb1 0.45 vs. 14.0 \xc2\xb1 0.38 mm-1, P = 0.031) and HC (12.0 \xc2\xb1 0.45 vs. 14.1 \xc2\xb1 0.53 mm-1, P = 0.035). There were no significant differences between the MO and HC groups.Conclusions: Migraine with, but not without, aura was associated with foveal and peripapillary vascular decrements, which may possibly mediate increased risk of ocular and systemic vascular complications in these patients. OCTA could potentially be useful as a biomarker for migraine with aura. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Fovea Centralis#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Migraine with Aura#Migraine without Aura#Optic Disk#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult'
b"Background and Aims: Despite the importance of growth [CO 2 ] and water availability for tree growth and survival, little information is available on how the interplay of these two factors can shape intraspecific patterns of functional variation in tree species, particularly for conifers. The main objective of the study was to test whether the range of realized drought tolerance within the species can be affected by elevated [CO 2 ].Methods: Intraspecific variability in leaf gas exchange, growth rate and other leaf functional traits were studied in clones of maritime pine. A factorial experiment including water availability, growth [CO 2 ] and four different genotypes was conducted in growth rooms. A 'water deficit' treatment was imposed by applying a cycle of progressive soil water depletion and recovery at two levels of growth [CO 2 ]: 'ambient [CO 2 ]' (aCO 2 400\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol mol -1 ) and 'elevated [CO 2 ]' (eCO 2 800\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol mol -1 ).Key Results: eCO2 had a neutral effect on the impact of drought on growth and leaf gas exchange of the most drought-sensitive genotypes while it aggravated the impact of drought on the most drought-tolerant genotypes at aCO2. Thus, eCO2 attenuated genotypic differences in drought tolerance as compared with those observed at aCO2. Genotypic variation at both levels of growth [CO2] was found in specific leaf area and leaf nitrogen content but not in other physiological leaf traits such as intrinsic water use efficiency and leaf osmotic potential. eCO2 increased \xce\x94 13 C but had no significant effect on \xce\xb4 18 O. This effect did not interact with the impact of drought, which increased \xce\xb4 18 O and decreased \xce\x94 13 C. Nevertheless, correlations between \xce\x94 13 C and \xce\xb4 18 O indicated the non-stomatal component of water use efficiency in this species can be particularly sensitive to drought.Conclusions: Evidence from this study suggests elevated [CO 2 ] can modify current ranges of drought tolerance within tree species. labels: #Carbon Dioxide#Chlorophyll#Dehydration#Genotype#Nitrogen#Osmotic Pressure#Photosynthesis#Pinus#Plant Leaves"
b"Background and Aims: Floating sweet-grass ( Glyceria fluitans ) can form aerial as well as floating leaves, and these both possess superhydrophobic cuticles, so that gas films are retained when submerged. However, only the adaxial side of the floating leaves is superhydrophobic, so the abaxial side is directly in contact with the water. The aim of this study was to assess the effect of these different gas films on underwater net photosynthesis ( P N ) and dark respiration ( R D ).Methods: Evolution of O 2 was used to measure underwater P N in relation to dissolved CO 2 on leaf segments with or without gas films, and O 2 microelectrodes were used to assess cuticle resistance of floating leaves to O 2 uptake in the dark.Key Results: The adaxial side of aerial leaves was more hydrophobic than the abaxial side and also initially retained a thicker gas film when submerged. Underwater P N vs. dissolved CO 2 of aerial leaf segments with gas films had a K m of 172\xe2\x80\x89mmol CO 2 m -3 and a P max of 7\xc2\xb71\xe2\x80\x89\xce\xbcmol O 2 m -2 s -1 , and the leaf gas films reduced the apparent resistance to CO 2 uptake 12-fold. Underwater P N of floating leaves measured at 700\xe2\x80\x89mmol CO 2 m -3 was 1\xc2\xb75-fold higher than P N of aerial leaves. The floating leaves had significantly lower cuticle resistance to dark O 2 uptake on the wettable abaxial side compared with the superhydrophobic adaxial side.Conclusions: Glyceria fluitans showed high rates of underwater P N and these were obtained at environmentally relevant CO 2 concentrations. It appears that the floating leaves possess both aquatic and terrestrial properties and thus have 'the best of both worlds' so that floating leaves are particularly adapted to situations where the plant is partially submerged and occasionally experiences complete submergence. labels: #Aquatic Organisms#Carbon Dioxide#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Oxygen#Photosynthesis#Plant Leaves#Poaceae"
b'Background: Combining bevacizumab with frontline chemotherapy statistically significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS) but not overall survival (OS) in the phase III GOG-0218 trial. Evaluation of candidate biomarkers was an exploratory objective.Methods: Patients with stage III (incompletely resected) or IV ovarian cancer were randomly assigned to receive six chemotherapy cycles with placebo or bevacizumab followed by single-agent placebo or bevacizumab. Five candidate tumor biomarkers were assessed by immunohistochemistry. The biomarker-evaluable population was categorized into high or low biomarker-expressing subgroups using median and quartile cutoffs. Associations between biomarker expression and efficacy were analyzed. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: The biomarker-evaluable population (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89980) comprising 78.5% of the intent-to-treat population had representative baseline characteristics and efficacy outcomes. Neither prognostic nor predictive associations were seen for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor-2, neuropilin-1, or MET. Higher microvessel density (MVD; measured by CD31) showed predictive value for PFS (hazard ratio [HR] for bevacizumab vs placebo = 0.40, 95% confidence interval [CI]= 0.29 to 0.54, vs 0.80, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.59 to 1.07, for high vs low MVD, respectively, P interaction = .003) and OS (HR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.67, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.51 to 0.88, vs 1.10, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.84 to 1.44, P interaction = .02). Tumor VEGF-A was not predictive for PFS but showed potential predictive value for OS using a third-quartile cutoff for high VEGF-A expression.Conclusions: These retrospective tumor biomarker analyses suggest a positive association between density of vascular endothelial cells (the predominant cell type expressing VEGF receptors) and tumor VEGF-A levels and magnitude of bevacizumab effect in ovarian cancer. The potential predictive value of MVD (CD31) and tumor VEGF-A is consistent with a mechanism of action driven by VEGF-A signaling blockade. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Angiogenesis Inhibitors#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Bevacizumab#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carboplatin#Confidence Intervals#Disease-Free Survival#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Microvessels#Middle Aged#Neuropilin-1#Ovarian Neoplasms#Paclitaxel#Platelet Endothelial Cell Adhesion Molecule-1#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Retrospective Studies#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2'
b'Background: Early-stage breast cancer is among the most prevalent and costly malignancies treated in the American health care system. Adjuvant radiotherapy after lumpectomy represents a substantial portion of breast cancer expenditures. The relative value of novel radiotherapeutic approaches such as intraoperative radiotherapy (IORT) and hypofractionated whole breast irradiation (HF-WBI) compared with conventionally fractionated whole breast irradiation (CF-WBI) is unknown. Therefore, we used prospectively collected outcomes from randomized clinical trials (RCTs) to compare the cost-effectiveness of these approaches.Methods: We constructed a decision-analytic model that followed women who were treated with lumpectomy for early-stage breast cancer. Recurrence, mortality, complication rates, and utilities (five-year radiation-associated quality of life scores), were extracted from RCTs. Costs were based on Medicare reimbursement rates. Cost-effectiveness from societal and health care sector perspectives was estimated considering two scenarios-the first assumes that radiation-associated disutility persists five years after treatment, and the second assumes that disutility discontinues. Lifetime outcomes were summarized using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses evaluated the robustness of the results.Results: HF-WBI dominated CF-WBI (ie, resulted in higher quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] and lower cost) in all scenarios. HF-WBI also had a greater likelihood of cost-effectiveness compared with IORT; under a societal perspective that assumes that radiation-associated disutility persists, HF-WBI results in an ICER of $17\xe2\x80\x89024 per QALY compared with IORT with a probability of cost-effectiveness of 80% at the $100\xe2\x80\x89000 per QALY willingness-to-pay threshold. If radiation-associated disutility is assumed to discontinue, the ICER is lower ($11\xe2\x80\x89461/QALY), resulting in an even higher (83%) probability of relative cost-effectiveness. The ICER was most sensitive to the probability of metastasis and treatment cost.Conclusions: For women with early-stage breast cancer requiring adjuvant radiotherapy, HF-WBI is cost-effective compared with CF-WBI and IORT. labels: #Aged#Breast Neoplasms#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Dose Hypofractionation#Female#Humans#Intraoperative Care#Markov Chains#Mastectomy, Segmental#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Quality of Life#Quality-Adjusted Life Years#Radiotherapy#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Background: Childhood cancer survivors treated with chest-directed radiotherapy have substantially elevated risk for developing breast cancer. Although genetic susceptibility to breast cancer in the general population is well studied, large-scale evaluation of breast cancer susceptibility after chest-directed radiotherapy for childhood cancer is lacking.Methods: We conducted a genome-wide association study of breast cancer in female survivors of childhood cancer, pooling two cohorts with detailed treatment data and systematic, long-term follow-up: the Childhood Cancer Survivor Study and St. Jude Lifetime Cohort. The study population comprised 207 survivors who developed breast cancer and 2774 who had not developed any subsequent neoplasm as of last follow-up. Genotyping and subsequent imputation yielded 16\xe2\x80\x89958\xe2\x80\x89466 high-quality variants for analysis. We tested associations in the overall population and in subgroups stratified by receipt of lower than 10 and 10 or higher gray breast radiation exposure. We report P values and pooled per-allele risk estimates from Cox proportional hazards regression models. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Among survivors who received 10 or higher gray breast radiation exposure, a locus on 1q41 was associated with subsequent breast cancer risk (rs4342822, nearest gene PROX1 , risk allele frequency in control subjects [RAF controls ] = 0.46, hazard ratio = 1.92, 95% confidence interval = 1.49 to 2.44, P = 7.09\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -9 ). Two rare variants also showed potentially promising associations (breast radiation \xe2\x89\xa510 gray: rs74949440, 11q23, TAGLN , RAF controls = 0.02, P = 5.84\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -8 ;<10 gray: rs17020562, 1q32.3, RPS6KC1 , RAF controls = 0.0005, P = 6.68\xe2\x80\x89\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8910 -8 ). Associations were restricted to these dose subgroups, with consistent findings in the two survivor cohorts.Conclusions: Our study provides strong evidence that germline genetics outside high-risk syndromes could modify the effect of radiation exposure on breast cancer risk after childhood cancer. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Breast#Breast Neoplasms#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genome-Wide Association Study#Hodgkin Disease#Homeodomain Proteins#Humans#Infant#Leukemia#Microfilament Proteins#Middle Aged#Muscle Proteins#Neoplasms, Radiation-Induced#Neoplasms, Second Primary#Proportional Hazards Models#Radiotherapy Dosage#Retrospective Studies#Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases#Survivors#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Young Adult#raf Kinases'
b'Background: In October 2016, pembrolizumab became the new standard of care for firstline treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (mNSCLC) whose tumors express programmed death ligand 1 in at least 50% of cells. The US Food and Drug Administration-recommended dose is 200\xe2\x80\x89mg every three weeks. Multiple studies have demonstrated equivalent efficacy with weight-based doses between 2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg and 10\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg. The objective of this study was to compare the economic impact of using personalized dosing (2\xe2\x80\x89mg/kg) vs fixed dosing (200\xe2\x80\x89mg) in the firstline setting of mNSCLC.Methods: We performed a budget impact analysis from the US societal perspective to compare fixed dosing with personalized dosing. We calculated the target population and weight of patients who would be treated with pembrolizumab annually in the firstline setting. Using survival curves from the KEYNOTE 024 trial with Weibull extrapolation, we estimated the mean number of cycles that patients would receive. Using the Medicare average sales price, we calculated the difference in cost between personalized and fixed dosing.Results: Our base case model demonstrates that the total annual cost of pembrolizumab with fixed dosing is US $3\xe2\x80\x89440\xe2\x80\x89127\xe2\x80\x89429, and with personalized dosing it is US $2\xe2\x80\x89614\xe2\x80\x89496\xe2\x80\x89846. The use of personalized dosing would lead to a 24.0% annual savings of US $825\xe2\x80\x89630\xe2\x80\x89583 in the United States.Conclusions: Personalized dosing of pembrolizumab may have the potential to save approximately $0.825 billion annually in the United States, likely without impacting outcomes. This option should be considered for the firstline management of PD-L1-positive advanced lung cancer. labels: #Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Antineoplastic Agents#B7-H1 Antigen#Body Weight#Budgets#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Costs#Drug Dosage Calculations#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Monte Carlo Method#Precision Medicine#United States'
b'Background: Plasticity of the ERBB receptor network has been suggested to cause acquired resistance to anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) therapies. Thus, we studied whether a novel approach using an ERBB1-3-neutralizing antibody mixture can block these compensatory mechanisms of resistance.Methods: HER2+ cell lines and xenografts (n \xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x896 mice per group) were treated with the ERBB1-3 antibody mixture Pan-HER, trastuzumab/lapatinib (TL), trastuzumab/pertuzumab (TP), or T-DM1. Downregulation of ERBB receptors was assessed by immunoblot analysis and immunohistochemistry. Paired pre- and post-T-DM1 tumor biopsies from patients (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8911) with HER2-amplified breast cancer were evaluated for HER2 and P-HER3 expression by immunohistochemistry and/or fluorescence in situ hybridization. ERBB ligands were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Drug-resistant cells were generated by chronic treatment with T-DM1. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Treatment with Pan-HER inhibited growth and promoted degradation of ERBB1-3 receptors in a panel of HER2+ breast cancer cells. Compared with TL, TP, and T-DM1, Pan-HER induced a similar antitumor effect against established BT474 and HCC1954 tumors, but was superior to TL against MDA-361 xenografts (TL mean = 2026\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89924\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , vs Pan-HER mean = 565\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89499\xe2\x80\x89mm 3 , P = .04). Pan-HER-treated BT474 xenografts did not recur after treatment discontinuation, whereas tumors treated with TL, TP, and T-DM1 did. Post-TP and post-T-DM1 recurrent tumors expressed higher levels of neuregulin-1 (NRG1), HER3 and P-HER3 (all P<.05). Higher levels of P-HER3 protein and NRG1 mRNA were also observed in HER2+ breast cancers progressing after T-DM1 and trastuzumab (NRG1 transcript fold change \xc2\xb1 SD; pretreatment = 2, SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.9, vs post-treatment = 11.4, SD\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910.3, P = .04). The HER3-neutralizing antibody LJM716 resensitized the drug-resistant cells to T-DM1, suggesting a causal association between the NRG1-HER3 axis and drug resistance. Finally, Pan-HER treatment inhibited growth of HR6 trastuzumab- and T-DM1-resistant xenografts.Conclusions: These data suggest that upregulation of a NRG1-HER3 axis can mediate escape from anti-HER2 therapies. Further, multitargeted antibody mixtures, such as Pan-HER, can simultaneously remove and/or block targeted ERBB receptor and ligands, thus representing an effective approach against drug-sensitive and -resistant HER2+ cancers. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Cell Line, Tumor#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Female#Humans#Ligands#Maytansine#Mice#Mice, Nude#Quinazolines#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptor, ErbB-2#Receptor, ErbB-3#Trastuzumab#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'Conventional cancer clinical trials can be slow and costly, often produce results with limited external validity, and are difficult for patients to participate in. Recent technological advances and a dynamic policy landscape in the United States have created a fertile ground for the use of real-world data (RWD) to improve current methods of clinical evidence generation. Sources of RWD include electronic health records, insurance claims, patient registries, and digital health solutions outside of conventional clinical trials. A definition focused on the original intent of data collected at the point of care can distinguish RWD from conventional clinical trial data. When the intent of data collection at the point of care is research, RWD can be generated using experimental designs similar to those employed in conventional clinical trials, but with several advantages that include gains in efficient execution of studies with an appropriate balance between internal and external validity. RWD can support active pharmacovigilance, insights into the natural history of disease, and the development of external control arms. Prospective collection of RWD can enable evidence generation based on pragmatic clinical trials (PCTs) that support randomized study designs and expand clinical research to the point of care. PCTs may help address the growing demands for access to experimental therapies while increasing patient participation in cancer clinical trials. Conducting valid real-world studies requires data quality assurance through auditable data abstraction methods and new incentives to drive electronic capture of clinically relevant data at the point of care. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Clinical Trials as Topic#Data Collection#Electronic Health Records#Evidence-Based Medicine#Humans#Insurance Claim Review#Medical Oncology#Observational Studies as Topic#Patient Selection#Point-of-Care Systems#Pragmatic Clinical Trials as Topic#Registries#Reproducibility of Results#United States'
b'Background: Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common solid tumor found in children, and deletions within the 11q region are observed in 11% to 48% of these tumors. Notably, such tumors are associated with poor prognosis; however, little is known regarding the molecular targets located in 11q.Methods: Genomic alterations of ATM , DNA damage response (DDR)-associated genes located in 11q ( MRE11A, H2AFX , and CHEK1 ), and BRCA1, BARD1, CHEK2, MDM2 , and TP53 were investigated in 45 NB-derived cell lines and 237 fresh tumor samples. PARP (poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase) inhibitor sensitivity of NB was investigated in in vitro and invivo xenograft models. All statistical tests were two-sided.Results: Among 237 fresh tumor samples, ATM, MRE11A, H2AFX , and/or CHEK1 loss or imbalance in 11q was detected in 20.7% of NBs, 89.8% of which were stage III or IV. An additional 7.2% contained ATM rare single nucleotide variants (SNVs). Rare SNVs in DDR-associated genes other than ATM were detected in 26.4% and were mutually exclusive. Overall, samples with SNVs and/or copy number alterations in these genes accounted for 48.4%. ATM-defective cells are known to exhibit dysfunctions in homologous recombination repair, suggesting a potential for synthetic lethality by PARP inhibition. Indeed, 83.3% NB-derived cell lines exhibited sensitivity to PARP inhibition. In addition, NB growth was markedly attenuated in the xenograft group receiving PARP inhibitors (sham-treated vs olaprib-treated group; mean [SD] tumor volume of sham-treated vs olaprib-treated groups\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x897377 [1451]m 3 vs 298 [312] m 3 , P = .001, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x894).Conclusions: Genomic alterations of DDR-associated genes including ATM, which regulates homologous recombination repair, were observed in almost half of NBs, suggesting that synthetic lethality could be induced by treatment with a PARP inhibitor. Indeed, DDR-defective NB cell lines were sensitive to PARP inhibitors. Thus, PARP inhibitors represent candidate NB therapeutics. labels: #Animals#Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Checkpoint Kinase 1#Checkpoint Kinase 2#Child#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#DNA Damage#DNA Repair#DNA-Binding Proteins#Gene Deletion#Heterografts#Histones#Humans#MRE11 Homologue Protein#Mice#Neuroblastoma#Phthalazines#Piperazines#Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerase Inhibitors#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'Non-visual opsins were discovered in the early 1990s. These genes play roles in circadian rhythm in mammals, seasonal reproduction in birds, light avoidance in amphibian larvae, and neural development in fish. However, the interpretation of such studies and the success of future work are compromised by the fact that non-visual opsin repertoires have not been properly characterized in any of these lineages. Here, we show that non-visual opsins from tetrapods and ray-finned fish are distributed among 18 monophyletic subfamilies. An amphibian sequence occurs in every subfamily, whereas mammalian orthologs occur in only seven. Species in the major ray-finned fish lineages, Holostei, Osteoglossomorpha, Otomorpha, Protacanthopterygii, and Neoteleostei, have large numbers of non-visual opsins (22-32 genes) as a result of gene duplication events including, but not limited to, the teleost genome duplication (TGD). In contrast to visual opsins, where lineage-specific duplication is common, the ray-finned fish non-visual opsin repertoire appears to have stabilized shortly after the TGD event and consequently even distantly related species have repertoires of similar size and composition. Most non-visual opsins have been named without the benefit of a phylogenetic perspective and, accordingly, major revisions are proposed. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Fishes#Gene Expression Regulation#Opsins'
b"Description: In April 2017, the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) approved a joint clinical practice guideline for the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus.Methods: The VA/DoD Evidence-Based Practice Work Group convened a joint VA/DoD guideline development effort that included a multidisciplinary panel of practicing clinician stakeholders and conformed to the Institute of Medicine's tenets for trustworthy clinical practice guidelines. The guideline panel developed key questions in collaboration with the ECRI Institute, which systematically searched and evaluated the literature through June 2016, developed an algorithm, and rated recommendations by using the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) system.Recommendations: This synopsis summarizes key features of the guideline in 7 areas: patient-centered care and shared decision making, glycemic biomarkers, hemoglobin A1c target ranges, individualized treatment plans, outpatient pharmacologic treatment, glucose targets for critically ill patients, and treatment of hospitalized patients. labels: #Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Clinical Decision-Making#Decision Making#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diabetic Angiopathies#Fructosamine#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Life Expectancy#Patient Preference#Patient-Centered Care"
b"Objective:To analyze the clinical characteristics and perinatal outcomes of listeriosis during pregnancy.Methods:From July 2010 to April 2017, 70 131 women delivered in West China Second University Hospital. Nineteen cases were confirmed as listeriosis. The clinical symptoms, laboratory results, pathogens, placenta pathology and perinatal outcomes were analyzed retrospectively.Results:The median age of the 19 cases was 29.7 (19.0-42.0) years old. The median time before diagnosis was 4.8(0.5-19.0) days. The main clinical symptoms at first visits were high fever (17/19), increased white blood cells (18/19), abdominal pain (12/19). Listeria was found in samples of mother's blood (11/19), vaginal secretions (15/19), placenta (1/19), neonatal blood (4/19), neonatal phlegm (5/19) and neonatal ear secretions (1/19), respectively. Inflammation of placenta was identified in all 19 cases. Among the 19 cases, 1 was grade \xe2\x85\xa0 chorioamnionitis, 4 was grade \xe2\x85\xa1, 5 was grade \xe2\x85\xa2 and 9 was grade \xe2\x85\xa5. Only 4 newborn survived after therapy, and others suffered perinatal death, including 8 cases of intrauterine death, 3 cases of miscarriage and 6 cases of treatment failure.Conclusions:Listeriosis has characteristics of acute onset, quick development and high morbidity during pregnancy. The empiric use of antibiotics might not cover listeria. The understanding of listeriosis should be improved. labels: #Abortion, Spontaneous#Adult#Anti-Bacterial Agents#China#Chorioamnionitis#Female#Fetal Death#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Listeria monocytogenes#Listeriosis#Parturition#Placenta#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#Pregnancy Outcome#Retrospective Studies"
b'Objectives:To analyze 3 cases of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome diagnosed prenatally, and to demonstrate clinical phenotype of the syndrome in prenatal setting.Methods:From January 2013 to July 2017, 1 370 women received invasive prenatal diagnosis and chromosome microarray analysis (CMA) in Peking Union Medical College Hospital. Among them, 3 fetuses were diagnosed as 17q12 microdeletion syndrome. All 3 cases were low-risk pregnancies. Abnormal structures in fetal kidney were found in all 3 cases, including 1 case of multiple renal cysts, 2 cases of bilateral hyperechogenic kidneys. These women accepted invasive prenatal diagnosis followed by karyotyping, parental fluorescence in situ hybridization or CMA validation.Results:The second and third trimester ultrasound showed that all 3 fetuses had bilateral renal structural abnormalities, including hyperechogenic kidney, multiple cysts and renal pelvis dilatation. The karyotyping of the 3 fetuses were normal. CMA examination showed that each case had 1.4-1.6 Mb deletion in 17q12 region. Two cases were de novo deletion and 1 case was inherited from the mother who had mild symptoms. The 3 women decided to terminate pregnancies after genetic counseling.Conclusion:17q12 microdeletion syndrome is a recurrent chromosome microdeletion syndrome, and the unique phenotype in prenatal setting is the abnormal structure of bilateral kidneys. A few cases of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome even inherited normally phenotypical parents, and prenatal genetic counseling of 17q12 microdeletion syndrome is relatively difficult. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Chromosome Deletion#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17#Female#Fetal Diseases#Humans#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Intellectual Disability#Karyotyping#Kidney#Microarray Analysis#Phenotype#Pregnancy#Prenatal Diagnosis#Ultrasonography, Prenatal'
b"Objective:To investigate the safety and efficacy of hysterosopic management of type \xe2\x85\xa1 cesarean scar pregnancy (CSP) and the value of prophylactic uterine artery embolization (UAE).Methods:Totally 104 patients with type \xe2\x85\xa1 CSP treated with hysteroscopic surgery at the Women's Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, during Jan. 2009 to Jun. 2016 were analyzed retrospectively, 67 patients combined with UAE (UAE group) and 37 patients without combined with UAE (non-UAE group). Laparoscopy or sonography guidance was conducted simultaneously. The following clinical parameters were compared, including: primary cure rate, uterine packing rate, uterine perforation rate, hemoglobin level change, the time for the mass absorption and the return of \xce\xb2-hCG to normal, complications, hospital days and hospital stay cost.Results:Median gestational age, size of mass, thickness of the anterior myometrium and \xce\xb2-hCG level in UAE group versus non-UAE group were 47 versus 47 days, 30 versus 30 mm,2 versus 2 mm, 36 524 versus 32 226 U/L (allP>0.05). Out of 104, 100 patients were managed successfully with hysteroscopic surgery, and 4 patients transformed to laparoscopic or laparotomy surgery. Hysteroscopic surgery was effective in 63 out of 67 patients (94%) in UAE group and 34 out of 37 patients (92%) in non-UAE group (P>0.05). There was no significant differences regarding uterine perforation rate, uterine packing rate, hemoglobin change and recovery time between UAE group and non-UAE group (allP>0.05). The median hospital day was 7 days in UAE group versus 5 days in non-UAE group (P<0.01). The median hospital stay cost was 13 654 yuan in UAE group versus 9 108 yuan in non-UAE group (P<0.01). Serious complication occurred in 4 patients (6%, 4/67) in UAE group and 2 patients (5%, 2/67) in non-UAE group (P=0.906).Conclusions:Hysteroscopic surgery is effective and safe for patients with type \xe2\x85\xa1 CSP in the first trimester with size \xe2\x89\xa430 mm in diameter and gestation age<7 weeks. The value of prophylactic UAE is uncertain. labels: #Adult#Cesarean Section#Chorionic Gonadotropin, beta Subunit, Human#Cicatrix#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Humans#Hysteroscopy#Laparoscopy#Laparotomy#Length of Stay#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Trimester, First#Pregnancy, Ectopic#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Ultrasonography#Uterine Artery Embolization#Uterus#Young Adult"
b"Objective:To investigate clinical outcomes of laparoendoscopic single-site ovarian cystectomy compared with traditional multi-port laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy.Methods:Data of 81 patients with ovarian cystectomy from January 2016 to May 2017, the single-site group (n=40) and the multi-port group (n=41) in Peking Union Medical College Hospital were retrospectively collected. The outcomes of single-site and multi-port groups were analyzed and compared, including: postoperative fever, operation time, blood loss, hemoglobin change, surgical complications, postoperative pain score, postoperative analgesic requirements, body image scale and cosmetic score, length of hospital stay, postoperative total cost.Results:No complication was found in two groups. No difference was found in postoperative fever, blood loss, hemoglobin change, postoperative pain score, length of hospital stay, and total cost between the two groups (allP>0.05). Operation time was (50\xc2\xb120) minutes in single-site group, and (40\xc2\xb115) minutes in multi-port group; postoperative analgesic requirements was 28%(11/40) in single-site group, and 7%(4/41) in multi-port group; cosmetic score was 22.6\xc2\xb12.6 in single-site group, and 17.3\xc2\xb12.6 in multi-port group; body image scale was 5.7\xc2\xb11.2 in single-site group, and 6.2\xc2\xb11.2 in multi-port group; these four clinical parameters were statistical differences (allP<0.05).Conculsion:Laparoendoscopic single-site ovarian cystectomy is feasible and safe, although it could't relieve the postoperative pian, it do offer a higher cosmetic satisfaction. labels: #Adult#Endoscopy#Female#Gynecologic Surgical Procedures#Humans#Laparoscopy#Length of Stay#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Ovarian Cysts#Ovary#Pain, Postoperative#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'Objective:To compare the dose, clinical efficacy and acute adverse reactions of intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT) combined with three-dimensional brachytherapy (3D-BT) in the treatment of concurrent radiotherapy and chemotherapy for advanced stage cervical cancer patients.Methods:Data collection was performed from January 2011 to November 2015 in Chinese PLA General Hospital and Inner Mongolia Cancer Hospital. All 89 patients with advanced stage (\xe2\x85\xa1 b-\xe2\x85\xa2 b) cervical cancer were treated by pelvic radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy, 46 cases of them received IMRT and 3D-BT (IMRT group) , 43 cases received 3D-CRT and 3D-BT (3D-CRT group) , along with cisplatin chemotherapy. The dose accumulation of external beam radiotherapy and 3D-BT was calculated by deformable image registration to analyze clinical efficacy, acute adverse reactions and prognosis of the two groups.Results:(1) Dose of radiotherapy: planning target volume (PTV) coverage of IMRT group and 3D-CRT group were respectively (95.4\xc2\xb14.7)% and (95.1\xc2\xb15.1)%, without significant differences (t=0.289,P=0.773). Compared with the patients treated with 3D-CRT, the volumn receiving at least 30 Gy (V(30)),V(50) of rectum, colon, bladder and small intestine andV(20) of bone marrow in the IMRT group were significantly decreased (P<0.05). Regarding the combined dose, the maximum dose (D(max)) and the minimum dose received by the most exposed 2 cm(3) volume of the analyzed organ (D(2CC)) of rectum, colon, bladder and small intestine of IMRT group were significantly lower than those of 3D-CRT group (P<0.05). (2) Short-term efficacy: the effective rate of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were respectively 93% (43/46) and 91% (39/43), with no significant differences (\xcf\x87(2)=0.237,P=0.626). (3) Acute adverse reactions: compared with 3D-CRT, IMRT could significantly reduce grade 1-2 acute toxicity in gastrointestinal [63%(29/46) vs 84%(36/43)], genitourinary [17%(8/46) vs 37%(16/43)]and hematologic [57%(26/46) vs 79%(34/43)] system (allP<0.05). There were no significant differences of grade 3 acute adverse reactions of gastrointestinal, genitourinary and hematologic system between two groups (allP>0.05). No grade 4 acute adverse reactions were observed. (4) Prognosis: the overall survival rate at 1, 2-year of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were respectively 95.6%, 89.1% and 93.1%, 86.1%. The progression-free survival rateat 1, 2-year of IMRT and 3D-CRT group were 91.1%, 89.1% and 88.4%, 86.1%, respectively. There were no significant differences in overall survival rate and progression-free survival rate between two groups (P>0.05).Conclusions:Compared with 3D-CRT, IMRT combined with 3D-BT has dosimetry advantages based on dose accumulation algorithms by deformable image registration. IMRT could ensure clinical efficacy and significantly reduce the incidence rate of acute toxicities. labels: #Brachytherapy#China#Cisplatin#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Pelvis#Prognosis#Radiotherapy Dosage#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Radiotherapy, Conformal#Radiotherapy, Intensity-Modulated#Rectum#Severity of Illness Index#Survival Rate#Urinary Bladder#Urogenital System#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms'
b'Objective:To explore the origin of ovarian high grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) through analysing the expression and significance of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in the ovary and fallopian tube of different types and grades of serous carcinoma.Methods:A total of 44 cases tissue samples of ovarian tumor including 34 malignant ovarian tumor and 10 normal normal tissue (as control group) were collected from the admitted patients in Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Guangxi Medical University from January 2015 to January 2016. Fallopian tube tissues were segmented in accordance with the fimbria, ampulla, isthmus and the corresponding ovarian tissues were by the side. There were 34 cases of patients with ovarian cancer including 29 cases of epithelial ovarian cancer (27 serous carcinoma, 1 mucinous carcinoma,1 endometrioid adenocarcinoma) and 5 non-epithelial ovarian cancer (sex cord-interstitial tumor). Among 27 cases of patients with ovarian serous cancer, there were 23 HGSC and 4 low-grade ovarian serous cancer (LGSC). One hundred fifty-three cases of samples were diagnosed as ovarian serous cancer by Shandong University Affiliated Qilu Hospital from 2005 to 2013 and these samples were made tissue microarray. (1) To analyze the expression and differences of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in the above tissues and tissue microarray from ovarian and tubal of HGSC and control women by immunohistochemistry methods. (2) To compare the expression levels of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in ovarian and fallopian tubes of ovarian cancer patients with different pathological types. (3) To analyze the correlations of tubal and ovarian tissue in PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS expression of HGSC. (4) To analyze the factors of the prognosis of ovarian serous cancer in tissue microarray by single factor analysis method.Results:(1) PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS expression was negative in normal ovarian epithelium of control group, but the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS were strongly positive brown in secrete cells of normal fallopian tube epithelium. (2) p53 and RAS expression of fallopian tube epithelium in the epithelial ovarian cancer group were significantly higher than those in the non-epithelial ovarian cancer groups (P<0.05), but the expression of PAX8 and PAX2 in fallopian tube and the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in ovarian tissue was not statistically significant in the groups (P>0.05). PAX8, PAX2 and p53 expression of the ovarian in HGSC group were significantly higher than those in LGSC group (P<0.05), while the expression of RAS was lower in the ovarian of the high-grade group (P<0.05), while the expression of PAX8, PAX2, p53 and RAS in fallopian tube was not statistically significant in the groups (P>0.05). (3) There was a significantly positive correlation between fallopian tube and the corresponding ovary of HGSC in PAX8 and PAX2 expression (r=0.422,P=0.045;r=0.693,P=0.000), but not correlation in p53 and RAS expression (r=0.058,P=0.793;r= -0.190,P=0.384). (4) Univariate survival analysis showed that the progression free survival time in patients with ovarian serous cancer group was significantly correlated with the protein expression of PAX8, PAX2 and RAS (P<0.05), but there were not correlated with age, surgical staging, cell differentiation, lymph node metastasis and preoperative chemotherapy and p53 protein expression (P>0.05). The total survival time in patients with ovarian serous cancer group was significantly correlated with the protein expression of PAX8 (P<0.05), but there were not correlated with age,surgical staging, cell differentiation, lymph node metastasis and preoperative chemotherapy and the protein expression of PAX2, RAS and p53 (P>0.05).Conclusions:PAX8, PAX2, p53, RAS are of great significance for the study of origin of HGSC. HGSC may be derived from fallopian tube, but further investigation would be necessary to confirm this. PAX8, PAX2, p53, RAS could be expected to be used as predictors of survival prognosis in patients with ovarian serous cancer. labels: #Carcinoma, Endometrioid#China#Cystadenocarcinoma, Serous#Epithelium#Fallopian Tube Neoplasms#Fallopian Tubes#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Monomeric GTP-Binding Proteins#Neoplasm Proteins#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#PAX2 Transcription Factor#PAX8 Transcription Factor#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'California\xe2\x80\x99s female dentists have experienced many professional\nand societal challenges. Their earliest achievements and successes are examined,including their history in the early California schools of dentistry and dental\nsocieties, their service and professional practice. A diverse selection of femaledentists from California with different professional career paths is profiled. labels: #California#Dentists, Women#Female#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#History, 21st Century#Humans#Schools, Dental'
b'More than 150 years ago, Lucy Hobbs became the first woman in the\ncountry to enter dental school. Today, women represent nearly half of the nation\xe2\x80\x99sentering class, more than a third of the faculty and a growing number of administrative\nleaders, including deans. Evidence illustrates a developing pipeline toward greaternumbers and strength of women in dental education, creating a far-reaching impact on\nteaching, learning and patient care in academia, practice and the profession. labels: #Administrative Personnel#Career Choice#Career Mobility#Dentists, Women#Education, Dental#Faculty, Dental#Female#Humans#Leadership#Professional Role#United States'
b'If trends continue, the majority of U.S. dental students will soon be\nwomen. However, there is little empirical analysis examining gender differences inthe labor supply of dentists and the potential effects on the dental care sector. We\nhelp fill this data void by examining differences in dentists\xe2\x80\x99 hours worked by gender,how this has changed over time and the potential implications for the current and\nfuture aggregate labor supply of dentists in California. labels: #Adult#California#Career Choice#Dentistry#Dentists, Women#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Middle Aged#Personnel Staffing and Scheduling#Workload'
b'Even though there are more women in the workplace today than\never before and more women than men are now graduating from college, there arerelatively few women who hold leadership positions, be it in government, academics\nor on corporate boards. labels: #Career Choice#Career Mobility#Demography#Dentists, Women#Female#Humans#Leadership#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Conventional drugs used to treat diabetes are too expensive, toxic and rarely available to rural communities. This study was aimed at investigating the phytochemical differences and hypoglycaemic effects (\xce\xb1-amylase enzyme inhibition, glucose uptake, GLUT4 translocation and phosphorylation of MAPKs) of non-defatted and defatted acetone leaf extract of Acacia karroo.METHODS: Qualitative phytochemical analyses of extracts were determined using standard chemical tests and total phenolic contents using the Folin-Ciocalteu reagent method. Presence of antioxidant constituents was determined using DPPH scavenging and ferric reducing power assays. Alpha amylase enzyme inhibitory potential was determined chromogenically and cytotoxicity of the extracts on C2C12 muscle and 3T3-L1 cells using the MTT assay. Glucose uptake by the cells was determined colorimetrically and the most active extract was evaluated for its ability to translocate GLUT4 and MAPKs phosphorylation potential using immunofluorescence microscopy and dot blot analysis, respectively.RESULTS: Phenols, flavonoids, tannins, saponins and cardiac glycosides were detected in both extracts. Defatting of the plant material resulted in low amounts of phenols (0.432\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.014 TAE/mg), DPPH scavenging activity (EC500.40\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.012\xc2\xa0mg/ml), low toxicity and high ferric reducing power (EC501.13\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa00.017\xc2\xa0mg/ml), \xce\xb1-amylase enzyme inhibition (IC5030.2\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb1\xc2\xa03.037\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml) and glucose uptake by both cells. The defatted extract showed an increase in GLUT4 translocation (at 25\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/ml) with decrease in Akt expression while in combination with insulin showed a decrease in GLUT4 translocation. A finding, that is implicative that the effect of the extract on GLUT4 translocation in C2C12 cells was not Akt dependent. The defatted extract in the absence and presence of insulin show varying phosphorylation levels of CREB, p38, GSK-3 and ERK2 which are important in cell survival and metabolism.CONCLUSION: This study represents the first report on the hypoglycemic potential of A. karroo and presence of compounds that can be exploited in the search for therapeutics with antidiabetic effect. labels: #Acacia#Animals#Antioxidants#Cell Line#Cell Survival#Glucose#Glucose Transporter Type 4#Hypoglycemic Agents#Mice#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Phenols#Phosphorylation#Plant Extracts#Plant Leaves#alpha-Amylases'
b"Swine are a key reservoir host for influenza A viruses (IAVs), with the potential to cause global pandemics in humans. Gaps in surveillance in many of the world's largest swine populations impede our understanding of how novel viruses emerge and expand their spatial range in pigs. Although US swine are intensively sampled, little is known about IAV diversity in Canada's population of ~12\xe2\x80\x89million pigs. By sequencing 168 viruses from multiple regions of Canada, our study reveals that IAV diversity has been underestimated in Canadian pigs for many years. Critically, a new H1 clade has emerged in Canada (H1\xce\xb1-3), with a two-amino acid deletion at H1 positions 146-147, that experienced rapid growth in Manitoba's swine herds during 2014-2015. H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses also exhibit a higher capacity to invade US swine herds, resulting in multiple recent introductions of the virus into the US Heartland following large-scale movements of pigs in this direction. From the Heartland, H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses have disseminated onward to both the east and west coasts of the United States, and may become established in Appalachia. These findings demonstrate how long-distance trading of live pigs facilitates the spread of IAVs, increasing viral genetic diversity and complicating pathogen control. The proliferation of novel H1\xce\xb1-3 viruses also highlights the need for expanded surveillance in a Canadian swine population that has long been overlooked, and may have implications for vaccine design. labels: #Animals#Canada#Evolution, Molecular#Influenza A virus#Molecular Epidemiology#Orthomyxoviridae Infections#Swine#Swine Diseases#United States"
b"In mammals, susceptibility to prion infection is primarily modulated by the host's cellular prion protein (PrPC) sequence. In the sheep scrapie model, a graded scale of susceptibility has been established both in vivo and in vitro based on PrPCamino acids 136, 154 and 171, leading to global breeding programmes to reduce the prevalence of scrapie in sheep. Chronic wasting disease (CWD) resistance in cervids is often characterized as decreased prevalence and/or protracted disease progression in individuals with specific alleles; at present, no PrPCallele conferring absolute resistance in cervids has been identified. To model the susceptibility of various naturally occurring and hypothetical cervid PrPCalleles in vitro, we compared the amplification rates and amyloid extension efficiencies of eight distinct CWD isolates in recombinant cervid PrPCsubstrates using real-time quaking-induced conversion. We hypothesized that the in vitro conversion characteristics of these isolates in cervid substrates would correlate to in vivo susceptibility - permitting susceptibility prediction for the rare alleles found in nature. We also predicted that hypothetical alleles with multiple resistance-associated codons would be more resistant to in vitro conversion than natural alleles with a single resistant codon. Our studies demonstrate that in vitro conversion metrics align with in vivo susceptibility, and that alleles with multiple amino acid substitutions, each influencing resistance independently, do not necessarily contribute additively to conversion resistance. Importantly, we found that the naturally occurring whitetail deer QGAK substrate exhibited the slowest amplification rate among those evaluated, suggesting that further investigation of this allele and its resistance in vivo is warranted. labels: #Alleles#Amyloid#Animals#Deer#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Prion Proteins#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#Wasting Disease, Chronic"
b'By providing pollination services, bees are among the most important insects, both in ecological and economical terms. Combined next-generation and classical sequencing approaches were applied to discover and study new insect viruses potentially harmful to bees. A bioinformatics virus discovery pipeline was used on individual Illumina transcriptomes of 13 wild bees from three species from the genus Halictus and 30 ants from six species of the genera Messor and Aphaenogaster. This allowed the discovery and description of three sequences of a new virus termed Halictus scabiosae Adlikon virus (HsAV). Phylogenetic analyses of ORF1, RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase (RdRp) and capsid genes showed that HsAV is closely related to (+)ssRNA viruses of the unassigned Sinaivirus genus but distant enough to belong to a different new genus we called Halictivirus. In addition, our study of ant transcriptomes revealed the first four sinaivirus sequences from ants (Messor barbarus, M. capitatus and M. concolor). Maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses were performed on a 594 nt fragment of the ORF1/RdRp region from 84 sinaivirus sequences, including 31 new Lake Sinai viruses (LSVs) from honey bees collected in five countries across the globe and the four ant viral sequences. The phylogeny revealed four main clades potentially representing different viral species infecting honey bees. Moreover, the ant viruses belonged to the LSV4 clade, suggesting a possible cross-species transmission between bees and ants. Lastly, wide honey bee screening showed that all four LSV clades have worldwide distributions with no obvious geographical segregation. labels: #Animals#Ants#Bees#Genetic Variation#Insect Viruses#Phylogeny#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Viral Proteins'
b'Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer. Herein we discover that the key glycolytic enzyme pyruvate kinase M2 isoform (PKM2), but not the related isoform PKM1, is methylated by co-activator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1). PKM2 methylation reversibly shifts the balance of metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis in breast cancer cells. Oxidative phosphorylation depends on mitochondrial calcium concentration, which becomes critical for cancer cell survival when PKM2 methylation is blocked. By interacting with and suppressing the expression of inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP3Rs), methylated PKM2 inhibits the influx of calcium from the endoplasmic reticulum to mitochondria. Inhibiting PKM2 methylation with a competitive peptide delivered by nanoparticles perturbs the metabolic energy balance in cancer cells, leading to a decrease in cell proliferation, migration and metastasis. Collectively, the CARM1-PKM2 axis serves as a metabolic reprogramming mechanism in tumorigenesis, and inhibiting PKM2 methylation generates metabolic vulnerability to InsP3R-dependent mitochondrial functions. labels: #Animals#CARD Signaling Adaptor Proteins#Calcium#Carcinogenesis#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Endoplasmic Reticulum#Female#Glycolysis#Guanylate Cyclase#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inositol 1,4,5-Trisphosphate Receptors#MCF-7 Cells#Membrane Proteins#Methylation#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Mitochondria#Neoplasm Metastasis#Oxidative Phosphorylation#Thyroid Hormones'
b'In\xc2\xa0vitro differentiation of human intestinal organoids (HIOs) from pluripotent stem cells is an unparalleled system for creating complex, multicellular three-dimensional structures capable of giving rise to tissue analogous to native human tissue. Current methods for generating HIOs rely on growth in an undefined tumour-derived extracellular matrix (ECM), which severely limits the use of organoid technologies for regenerative and translational medicine. Here, we developed a fully defined, synthetic hydrogel based on a four-armed, maleimide-terminated poly(ethylene glycol) macromer that supports robust and highly reproducible in\xc2\xa0vitro growth and expansion of HIOs, such that three-dimensional structures are never embedded in tumour-derived ECM. We also demonstrate that the hydrogel serves as an injection vehicle that can be delivered into injured intestinal mucosa resulting in HIO engraftment and improved colonic wound repair. Together, these studies show proof-of-concept that HIOs may be used therapeutically to treat intestinal injury. labels: #Animals#Cell Differentiation#Cells, Cultured#Colon#Extracellular Matrix#Humans#Hydrogels#Intestinal Mucosa#Intestines#Mice#Organoids#Pluripotent Stem Cells#Regeneration#Wound Healing'
b'Apicobasal polarity is known to affect epithelial morphogenesis and cell differentiation, but it remains unknown how these processes are mechanistically orchestrated. We find that ligand-specific EGFR signalling via PI(3)K and Rac1 autonomously modulates apicobasal polarity to enforce the sequential control of morphogenesis and cell differentiation. Initially, EGF controls pancreatic tubulogenesis by negatively regulating apical polarity induction. Subsequently, betacellulin, working via inhibition of atypical protein kinase C (aPKC), causes apical domain constriction within neurogenin3+endocrine progenitors, which results in reduced Notch signalling, increased neurogenin3 expression, and \xce\xb2-cell differentiation. Notably, the ligand-specific EGFR output is not driven at the ligand level, but seems to have evolved in response to stage-specific epithelial influences. The EGFR-mediated control of \xce\xb2-cell differentiation via apical polarity is also conserved in human neurogenin3+cells. We provide insight into how ligand-specific EGFR signalling coordinates epithelial morphogenesis and cell differentiation via apical polarity dynamics. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Cell Differentiation#Cell Polarity#Epithelial Cells#Insulin-Secreting Cells#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Morphogenesis#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neuropeptides#Organogenesis#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Protein Kinase C#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Signal Transduction#rac1 GTP-Binding Protein'
b'In this retrospective study of 5,536 patients admitted over four years\nat a predoctoral dental clinic for comprehensive care, general dentists identifiedcrown lengthening needs in 584 patients and 760 teeth. Only 51 patients and\n68 teeth actually received crown lengthening procedures. For the other cases,patients discontinued treatment or chose extraction or restoration without crown\nlengthening procedures. Teeth that received crown lengthening procedures weremost likely restored and functioning for at least one year. labels: #Adult#Crown Lengthening#Dental Clinics#Education, Dental#Female#General Practice, Dental#Health Services Needs and Demand#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Therapeutics'
b"This cross-sectional study investigated California dentists\xe2\x80\x99 knowledge\nand opinion of the interface between oral and overall health. A questionnaire andcover letter explaining the purpose of the study were mailed to 1,100 randomly\nselected California licensed general dentists. The survey measured dentists\xe2\x80\x99knowledge and opinions of the interface between oral and overall health as well as\ntheir recommendations for strengthening this interface. Dentists believed that therewas minimal interface between oral and overall health care. labels: #California#Cross-Sectional Studies#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Health Status#Humans#Middle Aged#Oral Health#Practice Patterns, Dentists'#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b"Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) or sleeping sickness is a Neglected Tropical Disease. Long regarded as an invariably fatal disease, there is increasing evidence that infection by T. b. gambiense can result in a wide range of clinical outcomes, including latent infections, which are long lasting infections with no parasites detectable by microscopy. The determinants of this clinical diversity are not well understood but could be due in part to parasite or host genetic diversity in multiple genes, or their interactions. A candidate gene association study was conducted in C\xc3\xb4te d'Ivoire using a case-control design which included a total of 233 subjects (100 active HAT cases, 100 controls and 33 latent infections). All three possible pairwise comparisons between the three phenotypes were tested using 96 SNPs in16 candidate genes (IL1, IL4, IL4R, IL6, IL8, IL10, IL12, IL12R, TNFA, INFG, MIF, APOL1, HPR, CFH, HLA-A and HLA-G). Data from 77 SNPs passed quality control. There were suggestive associations at three loci in IL6 and TNFA in the comparison between active cases and controls, one SNP in each of APOL1, MIF and IL6 in the comparison between latent infections and active cases and seven SNP in IL4, HLA-G and TNFA between latent infections and controls. No associations remained significant after Bonferroni correction, but the Benjamini Hochberg false discovery rate test indicated that there were strong probabilities that at least some of the associations were genuine. The excess of associations with latent infections despite the small number of samples available suggests that these subjects form a distinct genetic cluster different from active HAT cases and controls, although no clustering by phenotype was observed by principle component analysis. This underlines the complexity of the interactions existing between host genetic polymorphisms and parasite diversity. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Apolipoprotein L1#Apolipoproteins#Case-Control Studies#Child#Cote d'Ivoire#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Interleukin-4#Interleukin-6#Intramolecular Oxidoreductases#Lipoproteins, HDL#Macrophage Migration-Inhibitory Factors#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Principal Component Analysis#Trypanosoma brucei gambiense#Trypanosomiasis, African#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Young Adult"
b'With increasing appreciation for the extent and importance of intratumor heterogeneity, much attention in cancer research has focused on profiling heterogeneity on a single patient level. Although true single-cell genomic technologies are rapidly improving, they remain too noisy and costly at present for population-level studies. Bulk sequencing remains the standard for population-scale tumor genomics, creating a need for computational tools to separate contributions of multiple tumor clones and assorted stromal and infiltrating cell populations to pooled genomic data. All such methods are limited to coarse approximations of only a few cell subpopulations, however. In prior work, we demonstrated the feasibility of improving cell type deconvolution by taking advantage of substructure in genomic mixtures via a strategy called simplicial complex unmixing. We improve on past work by introducing enhancements to automate learning of substructured genomic mixtures, with specific emphasis on genome-wide copy number variation (CNV) data, as well as the ability to process quantitative RNA expression data, and heterogeneous combinations of RNA and CNV data. We introduce methods for dimensionality estimation to better decompose mixture model substructure; fuzzy clustering to better identify substructure in sparse, noisy data; and automated model inference methods for other key model parameters. We further demonstrate their effectiveness in identifying mixture substructure in true breast cancer CNV data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Source code is available at https://github.com/tedroman/WSCUnmix. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Chromosome Mapping#Data Interpretation, Statistical#Female#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression Profiling#Genes, Neoplasm#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Reproducibility of Results#Sensitivity and Specificity#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b'OBJECTIVES: Physical exercise may affect levels of blood-based biomarkers. However, exercise status is seldom considered in the interpretation of laboratory results. This study reports the associations between habitual exercise participation and clinical laboratory test results.METHODS: The effects of days per week of aerobic and strength exercise participation on laboratory test results for 26 biomarkers in young adults aged 18 to 34 years (n = 80,111) were evaluated using percentile distribution analyses and multivariate regression.RESULTS: In both men and women, more days per week of either aerobic or strength exercise were significantly associated with lower levels of glucose, hemoglobin A1c, LDL cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, estimated glomerular filtration rate, globulin, and C-reactive protein, and significantly higher levels of HDL cholesterol, creatinine, iron, and percent saturation (all p<.05). Type of exercise or gender influenced the observed relationships with exercise frequency for total cholesterol, aspartate aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase, uric acid, bilirubin, and iron binding capacity.CONCLUSIONS: Physical exercise shifted the distribution of results into the direction suggestive of better health. Reported relationships may help clinicians and patients to better understand and interpret laboratory results in athletic populations and possibly re-evaluate interpretation of reference intervals for physically active populations. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aerobiosis#Female#Humans#Male#Resistance Training#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Financing of malaria control for displaced populations is limited in scope and duration, making cost-effectiveness analyses relevant but difficult. This study analyses cost-effectiveness of adding prevention through targeted indoor residual spraying (IRS) to case management in Afghan refugee settlements in Pakistan during a prolonged malaria epidemic.METHODS/FINDINGS: An intervention study design was selected, taking a societal perspective. Provider and household costs of vector control and case management were collected from provider records and community survey. Health outcomes (e.g. cases and DALYs averted) were derived and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for cases prevented and DALYs averted calculated. Population, treatment cost, women's time, days of productivity lost, case fatality rate, cases prevented, and DALY assumptions were tested in sensitivity analysis. Malaria incidence peaked at 44/1,000 population in year 2, declining to 14/1,000 in year 5. In total, 370,000 malaria cases, 80% vivax, were diagnosed and treated and an estimated 67,988 vivax cases and 18,578 falciparum and mixed cases prevented. Mean annual programme cost per capita was US$0.56. The additional cost of including IRS over five years per case prevented was US$39; US$50 for vivax (US$43 in years 1-3, US$80 in years 4-5) and US$182 for falciparum (US$139 in years 1-3 and US$680 in years 4-5). Per DALY averted this was US$266 (US$220 in years 1-3 and US$486 in years 4-5) and thus 'highly cost-effective' or cost-effective using WHO and comparison thresholds.CONCLUSIONS: Adding IRS was cost-effective in this moderate endemicity, low mortality setting. It was more cost-effective when transmission was highest, becoming less so as transmission reduced. Because vivax was three times more common than falciparum and the case fatality rate was low, cost-effectiveness estimations for cases prevented appear reliable and more definitive for vivax malaria. labels: #Aerosols#Case Management#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Epidemics#Health Care Costs#Humans#Incidence#Insecticides#Malaria, Falciparum#Malaria, Vivax#Mosquito Control#Pakistan#Refugees"
b'Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) constitutes a global health burden. Efforts to uncover predisposing genetic variation have been considerable, yet detailed knowledge of the underlying pathogenesis remains poor. Here, we constructed a T2D phenotypic-linkage network (T2D-PLN), by integrating diverse gene functional information that highlight genes, which when disrupted in mice, elicit similar T2D-relevant phenotypes. Sensitising the network to T2D-relevant phenotypes enabled significant functional convergence to be detected between genes implicated in monogenic or syndromic diabetes and genes lying within genomic regions associated with T2D common risk. We extended these analyses to a recent multiethnic T2D case-control exome of 12,940 individuals that found no evidence of T2D risk association for rare frequency variants outside of previously known T2D risk loci. Examining associations involving protein-truncating variants (PTV), most at low population frequencies, the T2D-PLN was able to identify a convergent set of biological pathways that were perturbed within four of five independent T2D case/control ethnic sets of 2000 to 5000 exomes each. These same pathways were found to be over-represented among both known monogenic or syndromic diabetes genes and genes within T2D-associated common risk loci. Our study demonstrates convergent biology amongst variants representing different classes of T2D genetic risk. Although convergence was observed at the pathway level, few of the contributing genes were found in common between different cohorts or variant classes, most notably between the exome variant sets which suggests that future rare variant studies may be better focusing their power onto a single population of recent common ancestry. labels: #Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prevalence#Proteome#Reproducibility of Results#Risk Factors#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Evolution has equipped life on our planet with an array of extraordinary senses, but perhaps the least understood is magnetoreception. Despite compelling behavioral evidence that this sense exists, the cells, molecules, and mechanisms that mediate sensory transduction remain unknown. So how could animals detect magnetic fields? We introduce and discuss 3 concepts that attempt to address this question: (1) a mechanically sensitive magnetite-based magnetoreceptor, (2) a light-sensitive chemical-based mechanism, and (3) electromagnetic induction within accessory structures. In discussing the merits and issues with each of these ideas, we draw on existing precepts in sensory biology. We argue that solving this scientific mystery will require the development of new genetic tools in magnetosensitive species, coupled with an interdisciplinary approach that bridges physics, behavior, anatomy, physiology, molecular biology, and genetics. labels: #Animals#Electromagnetic Fields#Light#Magnetic Fields#Receptors, Cell Surface'
b'Genome-wide association studies have identified hundreds of risk loci for autoimmune disease, yet only a minority (~25%) share genetic effects with changes to gene expression (eQTLs) in immune cells. RNA-Seq based quantification at whole-gene resolution, where abundance is estimated by culminating expression of all transcripts or exons of the same gene, is likely to account for this observed lack of colocalisation as subtle isoform switches and expression variation in independent exons can be concealed. We performed integrative cis-eQTL analysis using association statistics from twenty autoimmune diseases (560 independent loci) and RNA-Seq data from 373 individuals of the Geuvadis cohort profiled at gene-, isoform-, exon-, junction-, and intron-level resolution in lymphoblastoid cell lines. After stringently testing for a shared causal variant using both the Joint Likelihood Mapping and Regulatory Trait Concordance frameworks, we found that gene-level quantification significantly underestimated the number of causal cis-eQTLs. Only 5.0-5.3% of loci were found to share a causal cis-eQTL at gene-level compared to 12.9-18.4% at exon-level and 9.6-10.5% at junction-level. More than a fifth of autoimmune loci shared an underlying causal variant in a single cell type by combining all five quantification types; a marked increase over current estimates of steady-state causal cis-eQTLs. Causal cis-eQTLs detected at different quantification types localised to discrete epigenetic annotations. We applied a linear mixed-effects model to distinguish cis-eQTLs modulating all expression elements of a gene from those where the signal is only evident in a subset of elements. Exon-level analysis detected disease-associated cis-eQTLs that subtly altered transcription globally across the target gene. We dissected in detail the genetic associations of systemic lupus erythematosus and functionally annotated the candidate genes. Many of the known and novel genes were concealed at gene-level (e.g. IKZF2, TYK2, LYST). Our findings are provided as a web resource. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Cell Line#European Continental Ancestry Group#Gene Expression Profiling#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Linear Models#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Lymphoid Progenitor Cells#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'There is growing interest in studying and engineering integral membrane proteins (MPs) that play key roles in sensing and regulating cellular response to diverse external signals. A MP must be expressed, correctly inserted and folded in a lipid bilayer, and trafficked to the proper cellular location in order to function. The sequence and structural determinants of these processes are complex and highly constrained. Here we describe a predictive, machine-learning approach that captures this complexity to facilitate successful MP engineering and design. Machine learning on carefully-chosen training sequences made by structure-guided SCHEMA recombination has enabled us to accurately predict the rare sequences in a diverse library of channelrhodopsins (ChRs) that express and localize to the plasma membrane of mammalian cells. These light-gated channel proteins of microbial origin are of interest for neuroscience applications, where expression and localization to the plasma membrane is a prerequisite for function. We trained Gaussian process (GP) classification and regression models with expression and localization data from 218 ChR chimeras chosen from a 118,098-variant library designed by SCHEMA recombination of three parent ChRs. We use these GP models to identify ChRs that express and localize well and show that our models can elucidate sequence and structure elements important for these processes. We also used the predictive models to convert a naturally occurring ChR incapable of mammalian localization into one that localizes well. labels: #Cell Membrane#Drug Design#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Ion Channels#Lipid Bilayers#Machine Learning#Rhodopsin#Sequence Analysis, Protein#Structure-Activity Relationship#Subcellular Fractions'
b'BACKGROUND: Once interruption of transmission of lymphatic filariasis is achieved, morbidity prevention and management becomes more important. A study in Brugia malayi filariasis from India has shown sub-clinical lymphatic pathology with potential reversibility. We studied a Wuchereria bancrofti infected population, the major contributor to LF globally.METHODS: Children aged 5-18 years from Odisha, India were screened for W. bancrofti infection and disease. 102 infected children, 50 with filarial disease and 52 without symptoms were investigated by lymphoscintigraphy and then randomized to receive a supervised single oral dose of DEC and albendazole which was repeated either annually or semi-annually. The lymphatic pathology was evaluated six monthly for two years.FINDINGS: Baseline lymphoscintigraphy showed abnormality in lower limb lymphatics in 80% of symptomatic (40/50) and 63\xc2\xb75% (33/52) of asymptomatic children. Progressive improvement in baseline pathology was seen in 70\xc2\xb78, 87\xc2\xb73, 98\xc2\xb76, and 98\xc2\xb76% of cases at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months follow up, while in 4\xc2\xb72, 22\xc2\xb75, 47\xc2\xb79 and 64\xc2\xb78%, pathology reverted to normal. This was independent of age (p = 0\xc2\xb727), symptomatic status (p = 0\xc2\xb757) and semi-annual/bi-annual dosing (p = 0\xc2\xb746). Six of eleven cases showed clinical reduction in lymphedema of legs.INTERPRETATION: A significant proportion of a young W. bancrofti infected population exhibited lymphatic pathology which was reversible with annual dosage of DEC and albendazole. This provides evidence for morbidity prevention&treatment of early lymphedema. It can also be used as a tool to improve community compliance during mass drug administration.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov No CTRI/2013/10/004121. labels: #Administration, Oral#Adolescent#Albendazole#Animals#Asymptomatic Infections#Child#Child, Preschool#Diethylcarbamazine#Elephantiasis, Filarial#Female#Filaricides#Humans#India#Lymphatic System#Lymphedema#Lymphoscintigraphy#Male#Treatment Outcome#Wuchereria bancrofti'
b"The trophic behavior of marine predators varies according to the level of competition to which they are exposed. In general, populations that inhabit lower productivity systems face a strong intraspecific competition, which contributes to the development of different foraging strategies to maximize nutritional efficiency. Given the high trophic flexibility of Zalophus wollebaeki, this species is considered appropriate for the analysis of such behavior. Furthermore, this trophic flexibility has allowed them to persist in a seemingly marginal ecosystem. In this study, we used a comparative analysis of variables (diet and dive behavior) related to Z. wollebaeki trophic niche plasticity to better understand their foraging ecology, using techniques such scat analysis, satellite telemetry and complementarily an isotopic analysis. Scat analysis revealed intra-population variation in their diet, represented by prey from different environments (epipelagic and benthic). These results are supported by the animals' locations at sea and diving profiles. Global Positioning System (GPS) and time-depth recorder (TDR) records showed the existence of two groups, with differing feeding areas and diving behavior. Also the \xce\xb415N values showed differences in the trophic level at which the species fed. These results constitute a relevant finding in the evolutionary behavior of the species, showing that Z. wollebaeki has developed a high degree of foraging flexibility, thus increasing its survival rate in an ecosystem that is highly demanding in terms of resource availability. labels: #Animals#Ecuador#Feeding Behavior#Principal Component Analysis#Remote Sensing Technology#Sea Lions#Species Specificity"
b'BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are epigenetically involved in regulating gene expression. They may be of importance in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The aim of this study was to determine the role of miRNAs by their specific blocking in the CD4+CB45RBhi T-cell transfer model of chronic experimental colitis.METHODS: Colitis caused by transfer of WT CD4+CD45RBhi T cells in severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mice shares many features with human IBD. Colonic miRNA expression levels were measured at three time points in colitic mice, where a time-dependent upregulation of multiple miRNAs was seen. To inhibit these miRNAs, specific locked-nucleic-acid-modified (LNA) oligonucleotides were administered in further experiments at the moment the mice demonstrated the first signs of colitis. As controls, PBS and a scrambled sequence of anti-miRNA were used. Genome-wide expression analyses were also performed in order to detect candidate target genes of miR-142-5p, of which inhibition resulted in most effective amelioration of colitis.RESULTS: Anti-miR-142-5p reduced colitis and related wasting disease when administered in the T-cell transfer model, reflected in reduced weight loss and a lower disease activity index (DAI). In further validation experiments we also observed a higher survival rate and less colonic histological inflammation in the antagomir-treated mice. Moreover, by genome-wide expression analyses, we found downstream activation of the anti-inflammatory IL10RA pathway, including three genes also found in the top-20 candidate target genes of miR-142-5p.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, CD4+CD45RBhi-transfer colitis induces miR-142-5p. Blocking miR-142-5p reduced colitis and prevented wasting disease, possibly by activation of the IL10RA pathway. labels: #Animals#Colitis#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#MicroRNAs#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: Mass drug administration (MDA) using praziquantel is the WHO-recommended approach for control of schistosomiasis. However, few studies have compared the impact of different schedules of MDA on the resultant infection levels. We wished to evaluate whether annual MDA was more effective than less frequent treatments for reducing community-level prevalence and intensity of Schistosoma mansoni infections.METHODS: We performed a cluster randomized trial (ISRCTN 14849830) of 3 different MDA frequencies over a 5 year period in 75 villages with moderate (10%-24%) initial prevalence of S. mansoni in school children in western Kenya. Praziquantel was distributed by school teachers to students either annually, the first 2 years, or every other year over a 4 year period. Prevalence and intensity of infection were measured by stool examination in 9-12 year old students using the Kato-Katz method at baseline, each treatment year, and for the final evaluation at year 5. S. mansoni prevalence and intensity were also measured in first year students at baseline and year 5.RESULTS: Twenty-five schools were randomly assigned to each arm. S. mansoni prevalence and infection intensity in 9-12 year old students significantly decreased within each arm from baseline to year 5 but there were no differences between arms. There were no differences in infection levels in first year students either within or between arms.CONCLUSIONS: Strategies employing 2 or 4 rounds of MDA had a similar impact in schools with moderate initial prevalence, suggesting that schistosomiasis control can be sustained by school-based MDA, even if provided only every other year. labels: #Animals#Child#Drug Administration Schedule#Feces#Female#Humans#Kenya#Male#Praziquantel#Prevalence#Schistosoma mansoni#Schistosomiasis mansoni#Schistosomicides#Schools#Students#Time Factors#World Health Organization'
b"BACKGROUND: The prevalence of unplanned pregnancy in Saudi Arabia has not been thoroughly investigated.OBJECTIVE: To conduct a psychometric evaluation study of the Arabic version of the London Measure of Unplanned Pregnancy (LMUP).METHODS: To evaluate the psychometric properties of the LMUP, we conducted a self-administered online survey among 796 ever-married Saudi women aged 20-49 years, and a re-test survey among 24 women. The psychometric properties evaluated included content validity measured by content validity index (CVI), structural validity assessed by exploratory factor analysis (EFA), substantive validity assessed by hypothesis testing, contextual stability for the test-retest assessed by weighted Kappa, and internal consistency assessed by Cronbach's alpha.RESULTS: The psychometric analysis of the Arabic version of LMUP exhibited valid and reliable properties. The CVIs for individual items and at the scale level were>0.7. EFA confirmed a unidimensional extraction of the scale item. Hypothesis testing confirmed expected associations. The tool was stable with weighted kappa = 0.78 and Cronbach's alpha = 0.88.CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS: In this study, the validity and reliability of the Arabic version of the LMUP were confirmed according to well-known psychometric criteria. This LMUP version can be used in research studies among Arabic-speaking women to measure unplanned pregnancy and investigate correlates and outcomes related to unplanned pregnancy. labels: #Adult#Family Planning Services#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Pregnancy#Psychometrics#Saudi Arabia#Young Adult"
b'The pig spine is widely used as a large animal model for preclinical research in human medicine to test new spinal implants and surgical procedures. Among them, pedicle screw is one of the most common method of fixation of those implants. However, the pedicle of the porcine vertebra is not as well defined and not as large as the pedicle of the human vertebra. Therefore, the position of the screw should be adapted to the pig and not merely transposed based on the literature on humans. The purpose of this study is to determine the characteristics of the optimum implantation corridors for pedicle screws in the thoracolumbar spine of piglets of different ages using computed tomography (CT) and to determine the size and length of these corridors in pigs of different ages. CT scans from five groups of age: 6, 10, 14, 18, and 26 weeks were reviewed. For each thoracolumbar vertebrae, the pedicle width, pedicle axis length, and the pedicle angle was measured for the left and right pedicle. A total of 326 thoracic vertebrae and 126 lumbar vertebrae were included in the study. Pedicles are statistically larger but not longer for the lumbar vertebrae. An important variation of the pedicle angle is observed along the spine. In all pigs, an abrupt modification of the pedicle angle between T10 and T11 was observed, which corresponds to the level of the anticlinal vertebra which is the vertebra for which the spinous process is nearly perpendicular to the vertebral body. In conclusion, this study provides a quantitative database of pedicle screw implantation corridors in pigs of different ages. When using pedicle screws in experimental studies in pigs, these results should be considered for selecting the most suitable implants for the study but also to ensure a correct and safer screw position. Improving study procedures may limit postoperative complications and pain, thereby limiting the use of live animals. labels: #Animals#Lumbar Vertebrae#Pedicle Screws#Swine#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b'Neuropilin-1 (Nrp1) encodes the transmembrane cellular receptor neuropilin-1, which is associated with cardiovascular and neuronal development and was within the peak SNP interval on chromosome 8 in our prior GWAS study on age-related hearing loss (ARHL) in mice. In this study, we generated and characterized an inner ear-specific Nrp1 conditional knockout (CKO) mouse line because Nrp1 constitutive knockouts are embryonic lethal. In situ hybridization demonstrated weak Nrp1 mRNA expression late in embryonic cochlear development, but increased expression in early postnatal stages when cochlear hair cell innervation patterns have been shown to mature. At postnatal day 5, Nrp1 CKO mice showed disorganized outer spiral bundles and enlarged microvessels of the stria vascularis (SV) but normal spiral ganglion cell (SGN) density and presynaptic ribbon body counts; however, we observed enlarged SV microvessels, reduced SGN density, and a reduction of presynaptic ribbons in the outer hair cell region of 4-month-old Nrp1 CKO mice. In addition, we demonstrated elevated hearing thresholds of the 2-month-old and 4-month-old Nrp1 CKO mice at frequencies ranging from 4 to 32kHz when compared to 2-month-old mice. These data suggest that conditional loss of Nrp1 in the inner ear leads to progressive hearing loss in mice. We also demonstrated that mice with a truncated variant of Nrp1 show cochlear axon guidance defects and that exogenous semaphorin-3A, a known neuropilin-1 receptor agonist, repels SGN axons in vitro. These data suggest that Neuropilin-1/Semaphorin-3A signaling may also serve a role in neuronal pathfinding in the developing cochlea. In summary, our results here support a model whereby Neuropilin-1/Semaphorin-3A signaling is critical for the functional and morphological integrity of the cochlea and that Nrp1 may play a role in ARHL. labels: #Animals#Female#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Neuropilin-1#Semaphorin-3A#Signal Transduction#Spiral Ganglion'
b'BACKGROUND: Strongyloides stercoralis is a soil-transmitted nematode that can replicate within its host, leading to long-lasting and potentially fatal infections. It is ubiquitous and highly prevalent in Cambodia. The extent of morbidity associated with S. stercoralis infection is difficult to assess due to the broad spectrum of symptoms and, thus, remains uncertain.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Clinical signs were compared among S. stercoralis infected vs. non-infected participants in a cross-sectional survey conducted in 2012 in eight villages of Northern Cambodia, and before and after treatment with a single oral dose of ivermectin (200\xce\xbcg/kg BW) among participants harboring S. stercoralis. Growth retardation among schoolchildren and adolescents was assessed using height-for-age and thinness using body mass index-for-age. S. stercoralis prevalence was 31.1% among 2,744 participants. Urticaria (55% vs. 47%, OR: 1.4, 95% CI: 1.1-1.6) and itching (52% vs. 48%, OR: 1.2, 95% CI: 1.0-1.4) were more frequently reported by infected participants. Gastrointestinal, dermatological, and respiratory symptoms were less prevalent in 103 mono-infected participants after treatment. Urticaria (66% vs. 11%, OR: 0.03, 95% CI: 0.01-0.1) and abdominal pain (81 vs. 27%, OR: 0.07, 95% CI: 0.02-0.2) mostly resolved by treatment. S. stercoralis infection was associated with stunting, with 2.5-fold higher odds in case of heavy infection.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The morbidity associated with S. stercoralis confirmed the importance of gastrointestinal and dermatological symptoms unrelated to parasite load, and long-term chronic effects when associated with malnutrition. The combination of high prevalence and morbidity calls for the integration of S. stercoralis into ongoing STH control measures in Cambodia. labels: #Adolescent#Animals#Antinematodal Agents#Cambodia#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#Feces#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#Ivermectin#Male#Morbidity#Prevalence#Rural Population#Strongyloides stercoralis#Strongyloidiasis'
b'Supplementation of exogenous enzymes in chickens has been widely practiced, yet mechanisms responsible are not fully delineated. To investigate the effects of the dietary lysozyme on the growth performance and immunity of broiler chickens, a total of 120 one-day-old Ross 308 chicks were randomly allocated into four groups, each having three replicates (30 birds/group). The chicks were fed the starter (1-21 d) and grower (22-35 d) diets supplemented with 0 (control), 70 (LYZ70), 90 (LYZ90) and 120 (LYZ120) g of lysozyme 10%\xc2\xae per ton of basal diet for five weeks. The results revealed significant improvement in the growth performance and gut environment. There were significant decreases (P<0.05 or 0.01) in the harmful fecal Coliform and Clostridia and an increase (P \xcb\x82 0.05) in the beneficial Lactobacillus in the lysozyme-supplemented groups, especially in LYZ90. Moreover, the mRNA expressions of Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), interferon-gamma (IFN-\xce\xb3), interleukin-10 (IL-10), and interleukin-18 (IL-18) were upregulated in response to lysozyme supplementation. In comparison to control, LYZ90 fed birds had a significant increase (P<0.01) in the GSH-Px gene expression that enhances the antioxidant status of the gut. Expression of the biomarkers involved in the gut non-specific immunity indicated significant increases in the mRNA expression of INF-\xce\xb3 (P<0.001), IL-10 (P<0.001), and IL-18 (P<0.05) in LYZ90 group. Also, serum globulin levels were significantly elevated (P \xcb\x82 0.05) in lysozyme-supplemented groups. Histologically, the intestinal villi length and crypts depth were also enhanced (P \xcb\x82 0.05) by dietary lysozyme supplementation. In conclusion, supplementation of broiler chickens with exogenous lysozyme, especially at 90 g of lysozyme per ton of basal diet dose rate, improved the growth performance, gut antioxidant status, and nonspecific immunity of broiler chickens. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Chickens#Diet#Muramidase#RNA, Messenger'
b'OBJECTIVE: Letters from the hospital to the general practitioner are important for maintaining continuity of care. Although doctors feel letters are important, they are often not written on time. To improve the number and timeliness of letters sent from the hospital outpatient department to the general practitioner using an email-based intervention evaluated in a randomized controlled trial.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Users were interviewed to determine the requirements for the intervention. Due to high between-doctor variation at baseline, doctors were matched for baseline performance and pair-randomized. The effectiveness of the intervention was assessed using meta-analytic methods. The primary outcome was the number of patient visits which should have generated a letter that had a letter by 90 days after the visit. Satisfaction was assessed with an anonymous survey.RESULTS: The intervention consisted of a monthly email reminder for each doctor containing a list of his or her patients who were (over)due for a letter. Doctors in the intervention group had 21% fewer patient visits which did not have a letter by 90 days (OR = 5.7, p = 0.0020). Satisfaction with the system was very high.DISCUSSION: This study examines the effect of a simple reminder in absence of other interventions, and provides an example of an effective non-interruptive decision support intervention.CONCLUSION: A simple email reminder improved the number and timeliness of letters from the outpatient department to the general practitioner, and was viewed as a useful service by its users. labels: #General Practitioners#Humans#Outpatient Clinics, Hospital#Patient Satisfaction#Time and Motion Studies'
b'During running at a constant speed, the optimal stride frequency (SF) can be derived from the u-shaped relationship between SF and heart rate (HR). Changing SF towards the optimum of this relationship is beneficial for energy expenditure and may positively change biomechanics of running. In the current study, the effects of speed on the optimal SF and the nature of the u-shaped relation were empirically tested using Generalized Estimating Equations. To this end, HR was recorded from twelve healthy (4 males, 8 females) inexperienced runners, who completed runs at three speeds. The three speeds were 90%, 100% and 110% of self-selected speed. A self-selected SF (SFself) was determined for each of the speeds prior to the speed series. The speed series started with a free-chosen SF condition, followed by five imposed SF conditions (SFself, 70, 80, 90, 100 strides\xc2\xb7min-1) assigned in random order. The conditions lasted 3 minutes with 2.5 minutes of walking in between. SFself increased significantly (p<0.05) with speed with averages of 77, 79, 80 strides\xc2\xb7min-1 at 2.4, 2.6, 2.9 m\xc2\xb7s-1, respectively). As expected, the relation between SF and HR could be described by a parabolic curve for all speeds. Speed did not significantly affect the curvature, nor did it affect optimal SF. We conclude that over the speed range tested, inexperienced runners may not need to adapt their SF to running speed. However, since SFself were lower than the SFopt of 83 strides\xc2\xb7min-1, the runners could reduce HR by increasing their SFself. labels: #Adult#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Running#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Beta-blockers are first-line therapy in patients with congenital long-QT syndrome (LQTS).OBJECTIVE: This study sought to determine the differences in effectiveness of beta-blockers on risk reduction according to LQTS genotype.METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL databases to investigate the use of beta-blockers (atenolol, nadolol, propranolol, and metoprolol) in patients with LQTS. Hazard ratio (HR) and relative risk (RR) were extracted or calculated from studies reporting cardiac events (syncope, aborted cardiac arrest (ACA), or sudden cardiac death (SCD)).RESULTS: Among 2,113 articles searched, 10 studies (7 registry-based cohort studies (Cohort) and 3 interrupted time series studies (ITS)) involving 9,727 patients were included. In a meta-analysis using a random-effect model, the use of beta-blocker was associated with significant risk reduction of all cardiac events (HR 0.49, p<0.001 in Cohort; RR 0.39, p<0.001 in ITS) and serious cardiac events (ACA or SCD) (HR 0.47, p<0.001 in Cohort). In both LQT1 and LQT2, the risk was reduced with beta-blocker therapy in Cohort (HR 0.59 in LQT1; HR 0.39 in LQT2) as well as ITS (RR 0.29 in LQT1; RR 0.48 in LQT2). Among the beta-blockers, nadolol showed a significant risk reduction in both LQT1 and LQT2 (HR 0.47 and 0.27, respectively), whereas atenolol and propranolol decreased the risk only in LQT1 (HR 0.36 and 0.46, respectively). Metoprolol showed no significant reduction in either genotype. In LQT3, beta-blocker therapy was not as effective as LQT1 or LQT2; however, it was inconclusive due to data insufficiency.CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis showed that beta-blockers were effective in reducing risk of cardiac events in patients with LQTS. Among them, nadolol was effective in LQT1 and LQT2, whereas other drugs showed different effectiveness depending on LQT genotype. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Female#Genotype#Humans#Long QT Syndrome#Male'
b'Rhododendron spp. is an important ornamental species that is widely cultivated for landscape worldwide. Heat stress is a major obstacle for its cultivation in south China. Previous studies on rhododendron principally focused on its physiological and biochemical processes, which are involved in a series of stress tolerance. However, molecular or genetic properties of rhododendron\'s response to heat stress are still poorly understood. The phenotype and chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics parameters of four rhododendron cultivars were compared under normal or heat stress conditions, and a cultivar with highest heat tolerance, "Yanzhimi" (R. obtusum) was selected for transcriptome sequencing. A total of 325,429,240 high quality reads were obtained and assembled into 395,561 transcripts and 92,463 unigenes. Functional annotation showed that 38,724 unigenes had sequence similarity to known genes in at least one of the proteins or nucleotide databases used in this study. These 38,724 unigenes were categorized into 51 functional groups based on Gene Ontology classification and were blasted to 24 known cluster of orthologous groups. A total of 973 identified unigenes belonged to 57 transcription factor families, including the stress-related HSF, DREB, ZNF, and NAC genes. Photosynthesis was significantly enriched in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway, and the changed expression pattern was illustrated. The key pathways and signaling components that contribute to heat tolerance in rhododendron were revealed. These results provide a potentially valuable resource that can be used for heat-tolerance breeding. labels: #Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genes, Plant#Photosynthesis#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Rhododendron#Transcription, Genetic#Transcriptome'
b'The development of brain imaging techniques, in particular functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), made it possible to non-invasively study the hemispheric lateralization of cognitive brain functions in large cohorts. Comprehensive models of hemispheric lateralization are, however, still missing and should not only account for the hemispheric specialization of individual brain functions, but also for the interactions among different lateralized cognitive processes (e.g., language and visuospatial processing). This calls for robust and reliable paradigms to study hemispheric lateralization for various cognitive functions. While numerous reliable imaging paradigms have been developed for language, which represents the most prominent left-lateralized brain function, the reliability of imaging paradigms investigating typically right-lateralized brain functions, such as visuospatial processing, has received comparatively less attention. In the present study, we aimed to establish an fMRI paradigm that robustly and reliably identifies right-hemispheric activation evoked by visuospatial processing in individual subjects. In a first study, we therefore compared three frequently used paradigms for assessing visuospatial processing and evaluated their utility to robustly detect right-lateralized brain activity on a single-subject level. In a second study, we then assessed the test-retest reliability of the so-called Landmark task-the paradigm that yielded the most robust results in study 1. At the single-voxel level, we found poor reliability of the brain activation underlying visuospatial attention. This suggests that poor signal-to-noise ratios can become a limiting factor for test-retest reliability. This represents a common detriment of fMRI paradigms investigating visuospatial attention in general and therefore highlights the need for careful considerations of both the possibilities and limitations of the respective fMRI paradigm-in particular, when being interested in effects at the single-voxel level. Notably, however, when focusing on the reliability of measures of hemispheric lateralization (which was the main goal of study 2), we show that hemispheric dominance (quantified by the lateralization index, LI, with |LI|>0.4) of the evoked activation could be robustly determined in more than 62% and, if considering only two categories (i.e., left, right), in more than 93% of our subjects. Furthermore, the reliability of the lateralization strength (LI) was "fair" to "good". In conclusion, our results suggest that the degree of right-hemispheric dominance during visuospatial processing can be reliably determined using the Landmark task, both at the group and single-subject level, while at the same time stressing the need for future refinements of experimental paradigms and more sophisticated fMRI data acquisition techniques. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Photic Stimulation#Reproducibility of Results#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Opuntia plants grow naturally in areas where temperatures are extreme and highly variable in the day during the entire year. These plants survive through different adaptations to respond to adverse environmental conditions. Despite this capability, it is unknown how CAM photosynthetic activity and growth in Opuntia plantlets is affected by constant heat or cold. Therefore, the main objective of this research was to evaluate the short-term effect of high (40\xc2\xb0C) and low (4\xc2\xb0C) continuous temperatures on the photosynthetic efficiency, the organic acid content (malic acid) and the relative growth rate (RGR) in seven-month-old Opuntia streptacantha plantlets during 5, 10, and 15 days. Chlorophyll fluorescence analysis allowed us to determine that high temperatures negatively impact the photosynthetic efficiency of O. streptacantha plantlets, which exhibited the lowest values of maximum quantum efficiency of the photosystem II (Fv/Fm = 52%, Fv/F0 = 85%), operational quantum yield of PS (\xce\xa6PSII = 65%) and relative electron transport rate (rETR = 65%), as well as highest values of basal fluorescence (F0 = 226%) during 15 days of treatment. Similarly, low temperatures decreased Fv/Fm (16%), Fv/F0 (50%), \xce\xa6PSII and rETR (16%). High temperatures also decreased nocturnal acidification in approximately 34-50%, whereas low temperatures increased it by 30-36%. Additionally, both continuous temperatures affected drastically diurnal consumption of malic acid, which was related to a significant RGR inhibition, where the specific photosynthetic structure area component was the most affected. Our results allowed determining that, despite the high tolerance to extreme temperatures described for Opuntia plants, young individuals of O. streptacantha suffered photosynthetic impairment that led to the inhibition of their growth. Thus, the main findings reported in this study can help to predict the potential impact of climatic change on the establishment and survival of succulent species of arid and semiarid regions of Mexico. labels: #Acids#Chlorophyll#Circadian Rhythm#Fluorescence#Opuntia#Photosynthesis#Temperature'
b'BACKGROUND: Country-specific forecasts of the growing non-communicable disease (NCD) burden in ageing HIV-positive patients will be key to guide future HIV policies. We provided the first national forecasts for Italy and the Unites States of America (USA) and quantified direct cost of caring for these increasingly complex patients.METHODS AND SETTING: We adapted an individual-based model of ageing HIV-positive patients to Italy and the USA, which followed patients on HIV-treatment as they aged and developed NCDs (chronic kidney disease, diabetes, dyslipidaemia, hypertension, non-AIDS malignancies, myocardial infarctions and strokes). The models were parameterised using data on 7,469 HIV-positive patients from the Italian Cohort Na\xc3\xafve to Antiretrovirals Foundation Study and 3,748 commercially-insured patients in the USA and extrapolated to national level using national surveillance data.RESULTS: The model predicted that mean age of HIV-positive patients will increase from 46 to 59 in Italy and from 49 to 58 in the USA in 2015-2035. The proportion of patients in Italy and the USA diagnosed with \xe2\x89\xa51 NCD is estimated to increase from 64% and 71% in 2015 to 89% and 89% by 2035, respectively, driven by moderate cardiovascular disease (CVD) (hypertension and dyslipidaemia), diabetes and malignancies in both countries. NCD treatment costs as a proportion of total direct HIV costs will increase from 11% to 23% in Italy and from 40% to 56% in the USA in 2015-2035.CONCLUSIONS: HIV patient profile in Italy and the USA is shifting to older patients diagnosed with multiple co-morbidity. This will increase NCD treatment costs and require multi-disciplinary patient management. labels: #Adult#Female#HIV Infections#Health Care Costs#Humans#Italy#Male#Models, Theoretical#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Sirtuins are NAD+ dependent deacetylases, which regulate mitochondrial energy metabolism as well as cellular response to stress. The NAD/NADH-system plays a crucial role in oxidative phosphorylation linking sirtuins and the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Furthermore, sirtuins are able to directly deacetylate and activate different complexes of the respiratory chain. This prompted us to analyse sirtuin levels in skin fibroblasts from patients with cytochrome c-oxidase (COX) deficiency and to test the impact of different pharmaceutical activators of sirtuins (SRT1720, paeonol) to modulate sirtuins and possibly respiratory chain enzymes in patient cells in vitro.METHODS: We assayed intracellular levels of sirtuin 1 and the mitochondrial sirtuins SIRT3 and SIRT4 in human fibroblasts from patients with COX- deficiency. Furthermore, sirtuins were measured after inhibiting complex IV in healthy control fibroblasts by cyanide and after incubation with activators SRT1720 and paeonol. To determine the effect of sirtuin inhibition at the cellular level we measured total cellular acetylation (control and patient cells, with and without treatment) by Western blot.RESULTS: We observed a significant decrease in cellular levels of all three sirtuins at the activity, protein and transcriptional level (by 15% to 50%) in COX-deficient cells. Additionally, the intracellular concentration of NAD+ was reduced in patient cells. We mimicked the biochemical phenotype of COX- deficiency by incubating healthy fibroblasts with cyanide and observed reduced sirtuin levels. A pharmacological activation of sirtuins resulted in normalized sirtuin levels in patient cells. Hyper acetylation was also reversible after treatment with sirtuin activators. Pharmacological modulation of sirtuins resulted in altered respiratory chain complex activities.CONCLUSIONS: We found inhibition of situins 1, 3 and 4 at activity, protein and transcriptional levels in fibroblasts from patient with COX-deficiency. Pharmacological activators were able to restore reduced sirtuin levels and thereby modulate respiratory chain activities. labels: #Acetylation#Electron Transport#Electron Transport Complex IV#Humans#Mitochondria#Reactive Oxygen Species#Sirtuins#Sodium Cyanide'
b"Rabies is a preventable fatal disease that causes about 61,000 human deaths annually around the world, mostly in developing countries. In Africa, several studies have shown that vaccination of pets is effective in controlling the disease. An annual vaccination coverage of 70% is recommended by the World Health Organization as a control threshold. The effective control of rabies requires vaccination coverage of owned dogs. Identification of the factors determining dog owners' choice to vaccinate is necessary for evidence-based policy-making. However, for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the limited data on rabies vaccination coverage makes it difficult for its control and formulation of appropriate policies. A cross-sectional study was conducted in Kinshasa (Lemba commune) with dog-owning households and owned dogs as study populations. The association between dog vaccination and independent factors (household socio-demographics characteristics, dog characteristics, knowledge of rabies and location of veterinary offices/clinics) was performed with Epi-info 7. The Odds Ratio (OR) and p-value<0.05 were used to determine levels of significance. A total of 166 households owning dogs and 218 owned dogs were investigated. 47% of the dogs had been vaccinated within one year preceding the survey which is higher than the critical coverage (25 to 40%) necessary to interrupt rabies transmission but below the 70% threshold recommended by WHO for control. The determinants of vaccination included socio-economic level of the household (OR = 2.9, p<0.05), formal education level of the dog owner (OR = 4, p<0.05), type of residence (OR = 4.6, p<0.05), knowledge of rabies disease (OR = 8.0, p<0.05), knowledge of location of veterinary offices/clinics (OR = 3.4, p<0.05), dog gender (OR = 1.6, p<0.05) and dog breed (OR = 2.1, p<0.05). This study shows that the vaccination coverage in this area can easily reach the WHO threshold if supplemented by mass vaccination campaigns. labels: #Animals#Democratic Republic of the Congo#Dogs#Humans#Ownership#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines#Socioeconomic Factors#Vaccination"
b'OBJECTIVES: The Northwestern University SuperAging Program studies a rare cohort of individuals over age 80 with episodic memory ability at least as good as middle-age adults to determine what factors contribute to their elite memory performance. As psychological well-being is positively correlated with cognitive performance in older adults, the present study examined whether aspects of psychological well-being distinguish cognitive SuperAgers from their cognitively average-for-age, same-age peers.METHOD: Thirty-one SuperAgers and 19 cognitively average-for-age peers completed the Ryff 42-item Psychological Well-Being questionnaire, comprised of 6 subscales: Autonomy, Positive Relations with Others, Environmental Mastery, Personal Growth, Purpose in Life, and Self-Acceptance.RESULTS: The groups did not differ on demographic factors, including estimated premorbid intelligence. Consistent with inclusion criteria, SuperAgers had better episodic memory scores. Compared to cognitively average-for-age peers, SuperAgers endorsed greater levels of Positive Relations with Others. The groups did not differ on other PWB-42 subscales.DISCUSSION: While SuperAgers and their cognitively average-for-age peers reported similarly high levels of psychological well-being across multiple dimensions, SuperAgers endorsed greater levels of positive social relationships. This psychological feature could conceivably have a biological relationship to the greater thickness of the anterior cingulate gyrus and higher density of von Economo neurons previously reported in SuperAgers. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Humans#Male#Memory, Episodic#Neuropsychological Tests#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'Human malignant mesothelioma is a chemoresistant tumour that develops from mesothelial cells, commonly associated with asbestos exposure. Malignant mesothelioma incidence rates in European countries are still rising and Australia has one of the highest burdens of malignant mesothelioma on a population basis in the world. Therapy using systemic delivery of free cytotoxic agents is associated with many undesirable side effects due to non-selectivity, and is thus dose-limited which limits its therapeutic potential. Therefore, increasing the selectivity of anti-cancer agents has the potential to dramatically enhance drug efficacy and reduce toxicity. EnGeneIC Dream Vectors (EDV) are antibody-targeted nanocells which can be loaded with cytotoxic drugs and delivered to specific cancer cells via bispecific antibodies (BsAbs) which target the EDV and a cancer cell-specific receptor, simultaneously. BsAbs were designed to target doxorubicin-loaded EDVs to cancer cells via cell surface mesothelin (MSLN). Flow cytometry was used to investigate cell binding and induction of apoptosis, and confocal microscopy to visualize internalization. Mouse xenograft models were used to assess anti-tumour effects in vivo, followed by immunohistochemistry for ex vivo evaluation of proliferation and necrosis. BsAb-targeted, doxorubicin-loaded EDVs were able to bind to and internalize within mesothelioma cells in vitro via MSLN receptors and induce apoptosis. In mice xenografts, the BsAb-targeted, doxorubicin-loaded EDVs suppressed the tumour growth and also decreased cell proliferation. Thus, the use of MSLN-specific antibodies to deliver encapsulated doxorubicin can provide a novel and alternative modality for treatment of mesothelioma. labels: #Animals#Cell Proliferation#Humans#Mesothelioma#Mice#Receptors, Cell Surface#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'OBJECTIVE: To assess whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is superior to primary debulking surgery (PDS) with regard to optimal cytoreduction, peri-operative morbidity, mortality, and quality of life (QOL) in advanced epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).METHODS: We searched the PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Web of Science, Registers of Clinical Trials for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing NACT to PDS in women with Federation of International Gynaecologists and Obstetricians stage \xe2\x85\xa2-\xe2\x85\xa3 EOC. RevMan 5.3 software was utilized for statistical analysis.RESULTS: Four RCTs involving 1,607 women with advanced EOC were included. Compared with PDS, NACT provided a higher rate of complete cytoreduction (risk ratio [RR], 1.95; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.33 to 2.87), optimal cytoreduction (RR: 1.61 [95%CI: 1.05 to 2.47]), but there was no significant difference in residual disease 0-1 cm (p = 0.49). NACT was associated with lower peri-operative morbidity with respect to infection (RR: 0.30 [95% CI: 0.16 to 0.56]), gastrointestinal fistula (RR: 0.24 [95% CI: 0.06 to 0.95]), any grade 3 or 4 adverse event (RR: 0.29 [95% CI: 0.11 to 0.78]), and less post-surgical death within 28 days (RR: 0.14 [95% CI: 0.04 to 0.49]). NACT provided better QOL in terms of fatigue (weight mean difference [WMD], -3.28; [95% CI: -3.99 to -2.57]), role functioning (WMD: 5.29 [95% CI: 4.44 to 6.14]), emotional functioning (WMD: 6.19 [95% CI: 5.57 to 6.82]), and cognitive functioning (WMD: 1.02 [95% CI: 0.43 to 1.61]) at 6-month follow-up compared with PDS.CONCLUSIONS: NACT is associated with superior optimal cytoreduction, lower peri-operative morbidity as well as post-surgical mortality, and better QOL compared to initial surgery in patients with advanced EOC. Future research should focus on improving the efficacy of NACT. labels: #Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Humans#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#Quality of Life#Treatment Outcome'
b"Severe influenza infections are featured by acute lung injury, a syndrome of increased pulmonary microvascular permeability. A growing number of evidences have shown that influenza A virus induces cytoskeletal rearrangement and permeability increase in endothelial cells. Although miRNA's involvement in the regulation of influenza virus infection and endothelial cell (EC) function has been well documented, little is known about the miRNA profiles in influenza-infected endothelial cells. Using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) as cell models, the present study aims to explore the differential miRNAs in influenza virus-infected ECs and analyze their target genes involved in EC permeability regulation. As the results showed, permeability increased and F-actin cytoskeleton reorganized after HUVECs infected with influenza A virus (CA07 or PR8) at 30 MOI. MicroRNA microarray revealed a multitude of miRNAs differentially expressed in HUVECs after influenza virus infection. Through target gene prediction, we found that a series of miRNAs were involved in PKC, Rho/ROCK, HRas/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways associated with permeability regulation, and most of these miRNAs were down-regulated after flu infection. It has been reported that PKC, Rho/ROCK, HRas/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways are activated by flu infection and play important roles in permeability regulation. Therefore, the cumulative effects of these down-regulated miRNAs which synergistically enhanced activation of PKC, Rho/ROCK, Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK, and Ca2+/CaM pathways, can eventually lead to actin rearrangement and hyperpermeability in flu-infected HUVECs. labels: #Capillary Permeability#Gene Expression Profiling#Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells#Humans#Influenza A virus#MicroRNAs#Umbilical Veins"
b'Soil salinity, a major environmental stress, reduces agricultural productivity by restricting plant development and growth. Jute (Corchorus spp.), a commercially important bast fiber crop, includes two commercially cultivated species, Corchorus capsularis and Corchorus olitorius. We conducted high-throughput transcriptome sequencing of 24 C. capsularis and C. olitorius samples under salt stress and found 127 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs); additionally, 4489 and 492 common DEGs were identified in the root and leaf tissues, respectively, of both Corchorus species. Further, 32, 196, and 11 common differentially expressed transcription factors (DTFs) were detected in the leaf, root, or both tissues, respectively. Several Gene Ontology (GO) terms were enriched in NY and YY. A Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis revealed numerous DEGs in both species. Abscisic acid and cytokinin signal pathways enriched respectively about 20 DEGs in leaves and roots of both NY and YY. The Ca2+, mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling and oxidative phosphorylation pathways were also found to be related to the plant response to salt stress, as evidenced by the DEGs in the roots of both species. These results provide insight into salt stress response mechanisms in plants as well as a basis for future breeding of salt-tolerant cultivars. labels: #Corchorus#Salinity#Stress, Physiological#Transcriptome'
b'The multifunctional Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is a serine/threonine kinase important in transducing intracellular Ca2+ signals. While in vitro data regarding the role of CaMKII in the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) are contradictory, its role in endothelial function in vivo remains unknown. Using two novel transgenic models to express CaMKII inhibitor peptides selectively in endothelium, we examined the effect of CaMKII on eNOS activation, NO production, vasomotor tone and blood pressure. Under baseline conditions, CaMKII activation was low in the aortic wall. Consistently, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate and plasma NO levels were unaltered by endothelial CaMKII inhibition. Moreover, endothelial CaMKII inhibition had no significant effect on NO-dependent vasodilation. These results were confirmed in studies of aortic rings transduced with adenovirus expressing a CaMKII inhibitor peptide. In cultured endothelial cells, bradykinin treatment produced the anticipated rapid influx of Ca2+ and transient CaMKII and eNOS activation, whereas CaMKII inhibition blocked eNOS phosphorylation on Ser-1179 and dephosphorylation at Thr-497. Ca2+/CaM binding to eNOS and resultant NO production in vitro were decreased under CaMKII inhibition. Our results demonstrate that CaMKII plays an important role in transient bradykinin-driven eNOS activation in vitro, but does not regulate NO production, vasorelaxation or blood pressure in vivo under baseline conditions. labels: #Animals#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Line#Humans#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III#Phosphorylation'
b'Oral mucositis (OM) is an important side effect of cancer treatment, characterized by ulcerative lesions in the mucosa of patients undergoing radiotherapy or chemotherapy, which has marked effects on patient quality of life and cancer therapy continuity. Considering that few protocols have demonstrated efficacy in preventing this side effect, the aim of this study was to examine the effect of dexamethasone (DEX) on OM induced by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in hamsters by studying signaling pathways. OM was induced in hamsters by 5-FU followed by mechanical trauma (MT) on day 4. On day 10, the animals were euthanized. The experimental groups included saline, MT, 5-FU, and DEX (0.25, 0.5, or 1 mg/kg). Macroscopic, histopathological, and immunohistochemical analyses as well as immunofluorescence experiments were performed on the oral mucosa of the animals. The oral mucosal samples were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). DEX (0.5 or 1 mg/kg) reduced inflammation and ulceration of the oral mucosa of hamsters. In addition, DEX (1 mg/kg) reduced the cytokine levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-\xce\xb1, interleukin (IL)-1\xce\xb2, and macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF). DEX (1 mg/kg) also reduced the immunoexpression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, transforming growth factor (TGF)-\xce\xb2, MIF, Smad 2/3, Smad 2/3 phosphorylated and NF\xce\xbaB p65 in the jugal mucosa. Finally, DEX (1 mg/kg) increased interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase 3 (IRAK-M), glucocorticoid-induced leucine zipper (GILZ), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MKP1) gene expression and reduced NF\xce\xbaB p65 and serine threonine kinase (AKt) gene expression, relative to the 5-FU group. Thus, DEX improved OM induced by 5-FU in hamsters. labels: #Animals#Cricetinae#Cyclooxygenase 2#Cytokines#Dexamethasone#Fluorouracil#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Mesocricetus#NF-kappa B#Phosphorylation#Smad Proteins#Stomatitis#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b"The three-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus L., hereafter 'stickleback') is a common mesopredatory fish in marine, coastal and freshwater areas. In large parts of the Baltic Sea, stickleback densities have increased>10-fold during the last decades, and it is now one of the dominating fish species both in terms of biomass and effects on lower trophic levels. Still, relatively little is known about its diet-knowledge which is essential to understand the increasing role sticklebacks play in the ecosystem. Fish diet analyses typically rely on visual identification of stomach contents, a labour-intensive method that is made difficult by prey digestion and requires expert taxonomic knowledge. However, advances in DNA-based metabarcoding methods promise a simultaneous identification of most prey items, even from semi-digested tissue. Here, we studied the diet of stickleback from the western Baltic Sea coast using both DNA metabarcoding and visual analysis of stomach contents. Using the cytochrome oxidase (CO1) marker we identified 120 prey taxa in the diet, belonging to 15 phyla, 83 genera and 84 species. Compared to previous studies, this is an unusually high prey diversity. Chironomids, cladocerans and harpacticoids were dominating prey items. Large sticklebacks were found to feed more on benthic prey, such as amphipods, gastropods and isopods. DNA metabarcoding gave much higher taxonomic resolution (median rank genus) than visual analysis (median rank order), and many taxa identified using barcoding could not have been identified visually. However, a few taxa identified by visual inspection were not revealed by barcoding. In summary, our results suggest that the three-spined stickleback feeds on a wide variety of both pelagic and benthic organisms, indicating that the strong increase in stickleback populations may affect many parts of the Baltic Sea coastal ecosystem. labels: #Animals#DNA Barcoding, Taxonomic#Ecosystem#Smegmamorpha"
b'After the introduction of a ban on the use of antibiotic growth promoters (AGPs) for livestock, the feeding environment, including the composition of animal intestinal microbiota, has changed rapidly. We hypothesized that the microbial genomes have also been affected by this legal prohibition, and investigated an important member of the swine gut microbiota, Lactobacillus salivarius, with a pan-genomic approach. Here, we isolated 21 L. salivarius strains composed of 6 strains isolated before the AGP prohibition (SBPs) and 15 strains isolated after the AGP prohibition (SAPs) at an interval of a decade, and the draft genomes were generated de novo. Several genomic differences between SBPs and SAPs were identified, although the number and function of antibiotic resistance genes were not different. SBPs showed larger genome size and a higher number of orthologs, as well as lower genetic diversity, than SAPs. SBPs had genes associated with the utilization of L-rhamnose and D-tagatose for energy production. Because these sugars are also used in exopolysaccharide (EPS) synthesis, we tried to identify differences in biofilm formation-associated genes. The genes for the production of EPSs and extracellular proteins were different in terms of amino acid sequences. Indeed, SAPs formed dense biofilm and survived better than SBPs in the swine intestinal environment. These results suggest that SAPs have evolved and adapted to protect themselves from new selection pressure of the swine intestinal microenvironment by forming dense biofilms, adopting a distinct antibiotic resistance strategy. This finding is particularly important to understand the evolutionary changes in host-microbe interaction and provide detailed insight for the development of effective probiotics for livestock. labels: #Animals#Biofilms#Drug Resistance, Microbial#Genome, Bacterial#Intestines#Lactobacillus salivarius#Probiotics#Swine'
b'Although numerous studies have demonstrated the key role of bacterial diversity in soil functions and ecosystem services, little is known about the variations and determinants of such diversity on a nationwide scale. The overall objectives of this study were i) to describe the bacterial taxonomic richness variations across France, ii) to identify the ecological processes (i.e. selection by the environment and dispersal limitation) influencing this distribution, and iii) to develop a statistical predictive model of soil bacterial richness. We used the French Soil Quality Monitoring Network (RMQS), which covers all of France with 2,173 sites. The soil bacterial richness (i.e. OTU number) was determined by pyrosequencing 16S rRNA genes and related to the soil characteristics, climatic conditions, geomorphology, land use and space. Mapping of bacterial richness revealed a heterogeneous spatial distribution, structured into patches of about 111km, where the main drivers were the soil physico-chemical properties (18% of explained variance), the spatial descriptors (5.25%, 1.89% and 1.02% for the fine, medium and coarse scales, respectively), and the land use (1.4%). Based on these drivers, a predictive model was developed, which allows a good prediction of the bacterial richness (R2adj of 0.56) and provides a reference value for a given pedoclimatic condition. labels: #Bacteria#France#Polymerase Chain Reaction#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Soil Microbiology'
b'For a detailed investigation of the degradation of lysine in Phaeobacter inhibens DSM 17395, stable isotope experiments with uniformly 13C labeled L-lysine were carried out with lysine adapted cells and the metabolites were analyzed using GC/MS and HPLC/MS. A non-targeted stable isotope analysis was used which compares labeled and not labeled samples to determine the Mass Isotopomer Distribution not only for known metabolites but for all labeled compounds in our GC/MS analysis. We show that P. inhibens uses at least two parallel pathways for the first degradation steps of lysine. Further investigations identified L-pipecolate as an L-lysine degradation intermediate in P. inhibens. The analysis of HPLC/MS data as well as the labeling data of tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates show that L-lysine is not only catabolized directly to acetyl-CoA but also via the ethylmalonyl-CoA-pathway, leading to entry points into the TCA cycle via acetyl-CoA, succinyl-CoA, and malate. Altogether the presented data give a detailed insight into the catabolization of L-lysine following the fate of 13C labeled carbon via several ways into the TCA cycle. labels: #Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Citric Acid Cycle#Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry#Isotopes#Lysine#Rhodobacteraceae'
b'In this paper, we investigate a step-stress partially accelerated lifetime test for the four-component hybrid systems with Type-II progressive hybrid censoring scheme while the life time of system component follows exponential failure rate. In many cases, the exact component causing the system failure cannot be identified and the cause of failure is masked. Based on Type-II progressively hybrid censored and masked data, the maximum likelihood estimations for unknown parameters and acceleration factor are obtained. In addition, approximate confidence interval and bootstrap confidence interval are presented by using the asymptotic distributions of the maximum likelihood estimations for unknown parameters and bootstrap method, respectively. Finally, the proposed method is illustrated through the simulation studies. labels: #Likelihood Functions#Models, Statistical'
b"Regeneration of injured skeletal muscles is affected by fibrosis, which can be improved by the administration of angiotensin II (AngII) receptor (ATR) blockers in normotensive animals. However, the role of ATR in skeletal muscle fibrosis in hypertensive organisms has not been investigated yet. The tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar rats (WR) were lacerated and a lentivector encoding a microRNA targeting AngII receptor type 1 (At1) (Lv-mirAT1a) or control (Lv-mirCTL) was injected. The TA muscles were collected after 30 days to evaluate fibrosis by histology and gene expression by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) and Western blot. SHR's myoblasts were analyzed by RT-qPCR, 48 h after transduction. In the SHR's TA, AT1 protein expression was 23.5-fold higher than in WR without injury, but no difference was observed in the angiotensin II receptor type 2 (AT2) protein expression. TA laceration followed by suture (LS) produced fibrosis in the SHR (23.3\xc2\xb18.5%) and WR (7.9\xc2\xb11.5%). Lv-mirAT1 treatment decreased At1 gene expression in 50% and reduced fibrosis to 7% 30 days after. RT-qPCR showed that reduction in At1 expression is due to downregulation of the At1a but not of the At1b. RT-qPCR of myoblasts from SHR transduced with Lv-mirAT1a showed downregulation of the Tgf-b1, Tgf-b2, Smad3, Col1a1, and Col3a1 genes by mirAT1a. In vivo and in vitro studies indicate that hypertension overproduces skeletal muscle fibrosis, and AngII-AT1a signaling is the main pathway of fibrosis in SHR. Moreover, muscle fibrosis can be treated specifically by in loco injection of Lv-mirAT1a without affecting other organs. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Fibrosis#Gene Expression Profiling#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#Rats#Rats, Inbred SHR#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptors, Angiotensin#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction"
b"This study evaluates the sustained analgesic effect of ketorolac-eluting thermosensitive biodegradable hydrogel in the plantar incisional pain model of the rat hind-paw. A ketorolac-embedded 2, 2'-Bis (2-oxazolin) (BOX) linking methoxy-poly(ethylene glycol) and poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (mPEG-PLGA) diblock copolymer (BOX copolymer) was synthesized as keto-hydrogel based on optimal sol-gel phase transition and in vitro drug release profile. The effect of keto-hydrogel on postoperative pain (POP) was assessed using the established plantar incisional pain model in hind-paw of rats and compared to that of ketorolac solution. Pain and sensory threshold, as well as pain scoring, were evaluated with behavioral tests by means of anesthesiometer and incapacitance apparatus, respectively. Pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6, VEGF, and IL-1\xce\xb2) around incisional wounds were measured by ELISA. Tissue histology was assessed using hematoxylin and eosin and Masson's trichrome staining. Ten mg/mL (25 wt%) keto-hydrogel showed a sol-gel transition at 26.4\xc2\xb0C with a 10-day sustained drug release profile in vitro. Compared to ketorolac solution group, the concentration of ketorolac in tissue fluid was higher in the keto-hydrogel group during the first 18 h of application. Keto-hydrogel elevated pain and sensory threshold, increased weight-bearing capacity, and significantly reduced the levels of TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6, and IL-1\xce\xb2 while enhanced VEGF in tissue fluid. Histologic analysis reveals greater epithelialization and collagen deposition around wound treated with keto-hydrogel. In conclusion, our study suggests that keto-hydrogel is an ideal compound to treat POP with a secondary gain of improved incisional wound healing. labels: #Animals#Biocompatible Materials#Disease Models, Animal#Hydrogels#Pain, Postoperative#Rats"
b'The periwinkle Littorina saxatilis has repeatedly evolved both a small, fragile and globose "wave ecotype" confined to wave-swept shores and a large, robust and elongated "crab ecotype" found in nearby crab-rich but less-exposed shores. This phenotypic divergence is assumed to reflect, in some part, local adaptation to wave exposure, but this hypothesis has received incomplete experimental testing. Here, we report a test of the prediction that the wave ecotype has a higher capacity to resist water flow than the crab ecotype. We sampled snails along a crab-wave transect and measured their resistance to dislodgement in a high-speed water flume with water speeds that match those of breaking waves in a range of relevant field conditions. Snails from the wave environment were consistently more resistant to water flow than snails from the crab environment and high resistance was positively correlated with the surface area of the foot and the area of the outer aperture contour both relative to shell size, and to the extent of lateral shell compression. In a separate experiment, we found that snails raised in still water in a common garden showed higher resistance to water flow if originating from a wave environment than from a crab environment, and this was true both at juvenile (2 weeks) and adult (10 months) developmental stages. This result suggests genetic control of a distinct "wave adapted" phenotype, likely to be maintained under strong divergent selection between the two adjacent habitats. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Animals#Ecosystem#Snails'
b'BACKGROUND: Netrin-1, a secreted laminin-like protein identified as an axon guidance molecule, has been shown to be of critical importance in the cardiovascular system. Recent studies have revealed pro-angiogenic, anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory properties of netrin-1 as well as cardioprotective actions against myocardial injury in diabetic mice.AIM: To examine the role of netrin-1 in diabetes-and high glucose (HG)-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction (VED) using netrin-1 transgenic mice (Tg3) and cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC).MAIN OUTCOME: Overexpression of netrin-1 prevented diabetes-induced VED in aorta from diabetic mice and netrin-1 treatment attenuated HG-induced impairment of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) function in BAECs.METHODS AND RESULTS: Experiments were performed in Tg3 and littermate control (WT) mice rendered diabetic with streptozotocin (STZ) and in BAECs treated with HG (25 mmol/L). Levels of netrin-1 and its receptor DCC, markers of inflammation and apoptosis and vascular function were assessed in aortas from diabetic and non-diabetic Tg3 and WT mice. Vascular netrin-1 in WT mice was reduced under diabetic conditions. Aortas from non-diabetic Tg3 and WT mice showed similar maximum endothelium-dependent relaxation (MEDR) (83% and 87%, respectively). MEDR was markedly impaired in aorta from diabetic WT mice (51%). This effect was significantly blunted in Tg3 diabetic aortas (70%). Improved vascular relaxation in Tg3 diabetic mice was associated with increased levels of phospho-ERK1/2 and reduced levels of oxidant stress, NF\xce\xbaB, COX-2, p16INK4A, cleaved caspase-3 and p16 and p53 mRNA. Netrin-1 treatment prevented the HG-induced decrease in NO production and elevation of oxidative stress and apoptosis in BAECs.CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes decreases aortic levels of netrin-1. However, overexpression of netrin-1 attenuates diabetes-induced VED and limits the reduction of NO levels, while increasing expression of p-ERK1/2, and suppressing oxidative stress and inflammatory and apoptotic processes. Enhancement of netrin-1 function may be a useful therapeutic means for preventing vascular dysfunction in diabetes. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blood Glucose#Cattle#Cells, Cultured#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Endothelium, Vascular#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Nerve Growth Factors#Netrin-1#Nitric Oxide#Oxidative Stress#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b'In the context of limited marine resources, the exponential growth of aquaculture requires the substitution of fish oil and fishmeal, the traditional components of fish feeds by terrestrial plant ingredients. High levels of such substitution are known to negatively impact fish performance such as growth and survival in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) as in other salmonids. In this respect, genetic selection is a key enabler for improving those performances and hence for the further sustainable development of aquaculture. We selected a rainbow trout line over three generations for its ability to survive and grow on a 100% plant-based diet devoid of both fish oil and fishmeal (V diet) from the very first meal. In the present study, we compared the control line and the selected line after 3 generations of selection, both fed either the V diet or a marine resources-based diet (M diet). The objective of the study was to assess the efficiency of selection and the consequences on various correlated nutritional traits: feed intake, feed efficiency, digestibility, composition of whole fish, nutrient retention and fatty acid (FA) profile. We demonstrated that the genetic variability present in our rainbow trout population can be selected to improve survival and growth. The major result of the study is that after only three generations of selection, selected fish fed the V diet grew at the same rate as the control line fed the M diet, whilst the relative reduction of body weight was 36.8% before the selection. This enhanced performance on the V diet seems to be mostly linked to a higher feed intake for the selected fish. labels: #Animal Feed#Animals#Fish Oils#Fishes#Oncorhynchus mykiss'
b"Strategies to encourage exercise have led to research on cycle ergometer 'exergaming', as a means of enhancing exercise enjoyment. This research has typically prescribed the exercise intensity and used one exercise mode. The aim of this study was to compare self-selected exercise intensity on a cycle ergometer with and without exergaming modes activated. A total of 20 participants aged between 18-40 years (M = 24.2 \xc2\xb1 5.9) completed a sub-maximal exercise test. Participants returned two days later to complete one 45 minute session of self-selected exercise with 15 minutes in each of 'control' (standard ergometer), 'track', and 'game' modes, with order randomized. Heart rate, work rate, perceived exertion, and affective valence were recorded during exercise. Dissociation and enjoyment were recorded in the rest interval between each mode. Participants exercised above ventilatory threshold (VT) in all three modes (track, M = 9.5 \xc2\xb1 12%; game, M = 6.2 \xc2\xb1 12%; and control, M = 4.4 \xc2\xb1 14% above VT) and at higher work rates (P<0.05) exergaming (track, M = 94.5 \xc2\xb1 27.9; game, M = 96.2 \xc2\xb1 32.8 watts) than control (M = 86.6 \xc2\xb1 26.5 watts). Despite exercising at a higher intensity, participants perceived exercise during the exergaming modes to be most pleasant (P<0.01), with greater enjoyment (P<0.01) and dissociation (P<0.01) in the game than track mode, and both modes higher on these variables than the control mode. Findings support the use of exergaming as a strategy to encourage individuals to exercise, with participants choosing to work harder physiologically, but reporting more positive psychological responses during and following the exercise. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Exercise#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Motivation#Physical Exertion#Respiration#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between a history of periodontitis (PD) and incident systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).METHODS: We used 2003-2012 claims data from the Taiwanese National Health Insurance Database to identify 7,204 incident SLE patients during 2007-2012 as the study group, along with randomly selecting 72,040 non-SLE patients matched (1:10) for age, gender, and first diagnosis date (index date) as the control group. The correlation between PD and SLE risk was estimated using conditional logistic regression analysis, after making adjustments for confounders (including a history of diabetes and number of non-PD related dental visits before the index date). To evaluate the effects of PD severity and the lag time which occurred since the last PD visit on SLE development, odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for subgroups of patients with PD according to their number of visits, cumulative cost and also the time gaps between their last PD-related visit and the index date.RESULTS: A statistically significant association between a history of PD and newly diagnosed SLE was observed (OR, 1.21; 95% CI, 1.14-1.28; p-value,<0.001). The association was both dose- and time-dependent and was found to be strongest when the interval between the last PD-related visit and the index date was less than three months (OR, 1.83; 95% CI, 1.61-2.09; p-value,<0.001). The association between PD exposure and SLE risk was consistently significant among subgroups stratified based on age, gender, or DM status.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this nationwide, population-based, case-control study suggest that there is a significant association between a history of PD and incident SLE in Taiwan. This weak association is limited to lack of information on individual smoking status in the database. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Confounding Factors (Epidemiology)#Female#Humans#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Middle Aged#Periodontitis#Risk Factors#Taiwan'
b"Leadership positions are still stereotyped as masculine, especially in male-dominated fields (e.g., engineering). So how do gender stereotypes affect the evaluation of leaders and team cohesiveness in the process of team development? In our study participants worked in 45 small teams (4-5 members). Each team was headed by either a female or male leader, so that 45 leaders (33% women) supervised 258 team members (39% women). Over a period of nine months, the teams developed specific engineering projects as part of their professional undergraduate training. We examined leaders' self-evaluation, their evaluation by team members, and team cohesiveness at two points of time (month three and month nine, the final month of the collaboration). While we did not find any gender differences in leaders' self-evaluation at the beginning, female leaders evaluated themselves more favorably than men at the end of the projects. Moreover, female leaders were evaluated more favorably than male leaders at the beginning of the project, but the evaluation by team members did not differ at the end of the projects. Finally, we found a tendency for female leaders to build more cohesive teams than male leaders. labels: #Female#Humans#Institutional Management Teams#Leadership#Male#Sex Factors"
b'The effectiveness of the annual influenza vaccine has declined in recent years, especially for the H3N2 component, and is a concern for global public health. A major cause for this lack in effectiveness has been attributed to the egg-based vaccine production process. Substitutions on the hemagglutinin glycoprotein (HA) often arise during virus passaging that change its antigenicity and hence vaccine effectiveness. Here, we characterize the effect of a prevalent substitution, L194P, in egg-passaged H3N2 viruses. X-ray structural analysis reveals that this substitution surprisingly increases the mobility of the 190-helix and neighboring regions in antigenic site B, which forms one side of the receptor binding site (RBS) and is immunodominant in recent human H3N2 viruses. Importantly, the L194P substitution decreases binding and neutralization by an RBS-targeted broadly neutralizing antibody by three orders of magnitude and significantly changes the HA antigenicity as measured by binding of human serum antibodies. The receptor binding mode and specificity are also altered to adapt to avian receptors during egg passaging. Overall, these findings help explain the low effectiveness of the seasonal vaccine against H3N2 viruses, and suggest that alternative approaches should be accelerated for producing influenza vaccines as well as isolating clinical isolates. labels: #Amino Acid Substitution#Antigens, Viral#Hemagglutinin Glycoproteins, Influenza Virus#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H3N2 Subtype#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human'
b"This work aims to study and explain the business cycle correlations of the Japanese production network. We consider the supplier-customer network, which is a directed network representing the trading links between Japanese firms (links from suppliers to customers). The community structure of this network is determined by applying the Infomap algorithm. Each community is defined by its GDP and its associated business cycle. Business cycle correlations between communities are estimated based on copula theory. Then, based on firms' attributes and network topology, these correlations are explained through linear econometric models. The results show strong evidence of business cycle correlations in the Japanese production network. A significant systemic risk is found for high negative or positive shocks. These correlations are explained mainly by the sector and by geographic similarities. Moreover, our results highlight the higher vulnerability of small communities and small firms, which is explained by the disassortative mixing of the production network. labels: #Algorithms#Commerce#Japan#Risk"
b'Our laboratory previously used the SEREX method in U937 cells and identified a novel leukemia-associated gene MLAA-34, a novel splice variant of CAB39L associated with acute monocytic leukemia, that exhibited anti-apoptotic activities in U937 cells. Whether MLAA-34 has an anti-apoptotic role in other tumor cells has not yet been reported. We explored whether MLAA-34 exhibited anti-apoptotic effects in HeLa cervical cancer cells and the possible mechanism of action. We generated a HeLa cell line stably expressing MLAA-34 and found that MLAA-34 overexpression had no effect on the growth, apoptosis and cell cycle of HeLa cells. However, upon treatment with arsenic trioxide (ATO) to induce apoptosis, the cell viability and colony formation ability of ATO-treated MLAA-34 stable HeLa cells were significantly higher than that of ATO-treated controls, and the apoptosis rate and proportion of G2/M cells also decreased. We found that ATO treatment of HeLa cells resulted in significant decreases in the expression of \xce\xb2-catenin mRNA and protein and the downstream target factors c-Myc, cyclin B1, and cyclin D1 in the Wnt signaling pathway. Notably, ATO-treated MLAA-34 stable HeLa cells showed a significant reduction in the ATO-mediated downregulation of these factors. In addition, MLAA-34 overexpression significantly increased the expression of nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin protein in ATO-treated cells compared with HeLa cells treated only with ATO. Thus, here we have found that the Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling pathway is involved in ATO-induced apoptosis in HeLa cells. MLAA-34 reduces ATO-induced apoptosis and G2/M arrest, and the anti-apoptotic effect may be achieved by activating the Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling pathway in HeLa cells. labels: #Antigens, Neoplasm#Apoptosis#Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins#Arsenicals#Blotting, Western#HeLa Cells#Humans#Oxides#Signal Transduction#Wnt Proteins#beta Catenin'
b'Neonicotinoid insecticides can cause a variety of adverse sub-lethal effects in bees. In social species such as the honeybee, Apis mellifera, queens are essential for reproduction and colony functioning. Therefore, any negative effect of these agricultural chemicals on the mating success of queens may have serious consequences for the fitness of the entire colony. Queens were exposed to the common neonicotinoid pesticides thiamethoxam and clothianidin during their developmental stage. After mating, their spermathecae were dissected to count the number of stored spermatozoa. Furthermore, their worker offspring were genotyped with DNA microsatellites to determine the number of matings and the genotypic composition of the colony. Colonies providing the male mating partners were also inferred. Both neonicotinoid and control queens mated with drones originating from the same drone source colonies, and stored similar number of spermatozoa. However, queens reared in colonies exposed to both neonicotinoids experienced fewer matings. This resulted in a reduction of the genetic diversity in their colonies (i.e. higher intracolonial relatedness). As decreased genetic diversity among worker bees is known to negatively affect colony vitality, neonicotinoids may have a cryptic effect on colony health by reducing the mating frequency of queens. labels: #Animals#Bees#Female#Genetic Variation#Male#Nicotine#Pesticides#Sexual Behavior, Animal'
b'Mature B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL) constitutes a collection of relatively rare pediatric malignancies. In order to utilize administrative data to perform large-scale epidemiologic studies within this population, a two-step process was used to assemble a 12-year cohort of B-NHL patients treated between 2004 and 2015 within the Pediatric Health Information System database. Patients were identified by ICD-9 codes, and their chemotherapy data were then manually reviewed against standard B-NHL treatment regimens. A total of 1,409 patients were eligible for cohort inclusion. This process was validated at a single center, utilizing both an institutional tumor registry and medical record review as the gold standards. The validation demonstrated appropriate sensitivity (91.5%) and positive predictive value (95.1%) to allow for the future use of this cohort for epidemiologic and comparative effectiveness research. labels: #Child#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Humans#Lymphoma, B-Cell'
b'The present study investigated the effect of iRoot Fast Set root repair material (iRoot FS) on the proliferation, migration and differentiation of human dental pulp stem cells (hDPSCs). The hDPSCs were treated with eluates of iRoot FS at concentrations of 0.2 and 2 mg/mL, referred to as FS0.2 and FS2, respectively, and Biodentine (BD; Septodont, Saint Maur des Fauss\xc3\xa9s, France) eluates at the corresponding concentrations as positive controls. A CCK8 assay was performed to determine cell proliferation. Wound healing and transwell assays were conducted to examine cell migration. Osteogenic differentiation was evaluated based on alkaline phosphatase activity, Alizarin Red S staining and quantitative real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to analyze the mRNA expression of differentiation gene markers. Cell proliferation was higher in the FS and BD groups than in the blank controls at 3 and 7 days. Moreover, FS0.2 enhanced cell migration and significantly promoted the osteogenic differentiation of hDPSCs. These findings suggested that iRoot FS is a bioactive material that promotes the proliferation, migration and osteogenic differentiation of hDPSCs. labels: #Cell Differentiation#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Dental Pulp#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Osteogenesis#Stem Cells'
b'Knowing the correct location of a specific object learned from a (topographic) map is fundamental for orientation and navigation tasks. Spatial reference systems, such as coordinates or cardinal directions, are helpful tools for any geometric localization of positions that aims to be as exact as possible. Considering modern visualization techniques of multimedia cartography, map elements transferred through the auditory channel can be added easily. Audiovisual approaches have been discussed in the cartographic community for many years. However, the effectiveness of audiovisual map elements for map use has hardly been explored so far. Within an interdisciplinary (cartography-cognitive psychology) research project, it is examined whether map users remember object-locations better if they do not just read the corresponding place names, but also listen to them as voice recordings. This approach is based on the idea that learning object-identities influences learning object-locations, which is crucial for map-reading tasks. The results of an empirical study show that the additional auditory communication of object names not only improves memory for the names (object-identities), but also for the spatial accuracy of their corresponding object-locations. The audiovisual communication of semantic attribute information of a spatial object seems to improve the binding of object-identity and object-location, which enhances the spatial accuracy of object-location memory. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Maps as Topic#Memory'
b'Bacillus anthracis, the causative agent of anthrax, secretes lethal toxin that down-regulates immune functions. Translocation of B. anthracis across mucosal epithelia is key for its dissemination and pathogenesis. Group 3 innate lymphocytes (ILC3s) are important in mucosal barrier maintenance due to their expression of the cytokine IL-22, a critical regulator of tissue responses and repair during homeostasis and inflammation. We found that B. anthracis lethal toxin perturbed ILC3 function in vitro and in vivo, revealing an unknown IL-23-mediated MAPK signaling pathway. Lethal toxin had no effects on the canonical STAT3-mediated IL-23 signaling pathway. Rather lethal toxin triggered the loss of several MAP2K kinases, which correlated with reduced activation of downstream ERK1/2 and p38, respectively. Inhibition studies showed the importance of MAPK signaling in IL-23-mediated production of IL-22. Our finding that MAPK signaling is required for optimal IL-22 production in ILC3s may lead to new approaches for targeting IL-22 biology. labels: #Animals#Anthrax#Antigens, Bacterial#Bacillus anthracis#Bacterial Toxins#Humans#Interleukin-23#Interleukins#Lymphocytes#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Mice#Virulence'
b'The intricate interactions between viruses and hosts include exploitation of host cells for viral replication by using many cellular resources, metabolites and energy. Tomato bushy stunt virus (TBSV), similar to other (+)RNA viruses, induces major changes in infected cells that lead to the formation of large replication compartments consisting of aggregated peroxisomal and ER membranes. Yet, it is not known how TBSV obtains the energy to fuel these energy-consuming processes. In the current work, the authors discovered that TBSV co-opts the glycolytic ATP-generating Pgk1 phosphoglycerate kinase to facilitate the assembly of new viral replicase complexes. The recruitment of Pgk1 into the viral replication compartment is through direct interaction with the viral replication proteins. Altogether, we provide evidence that the ATP generated locally within the replication compartment by the co-opted Pgk1 is used to fuel the ATP-requirement of the co-opted heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) chaperone, which is essential for the assembly of new viral replicase complexes and the activation of functional viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. The advantage of direct recruitment of Pgk1 into the virus replication compartment could be that the virus replicase assembly does not need to intensively compete with cellular processes for access to ATP. In addition, local production of ATP within the replication compartment could greatly facilitate the efficiency of Hsp70-driven replicase assembly by providing high ATP concentration within the replication compartment. labels: #Host-Pathogen Interactions#Phosphoglycerate Kinase#RNA Replicase#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Tobacco#Tombusvirus#Virus Assembly'
b'We studied the interaction between GroES and a single-ring mutant (SR1) of GroEL by the NMR titration of 15N-labeled GroES with SR1 at three different temperatures (20, 25 and 30\xc2\xb0C) in the presence of 3 mM ADP in 100 mM KCl and 10 mM MgCl2 at pH 7.5. We used SR1 instead of wild-type double-ring GroEL to precisely control the stoichiometry of the GroES binding to be 1:1 ([SR1]:[GroES]). Native heptameric GroES was very flexible, showing well resolved cross peaks of the residues in a mobile loop segment (residue 17-34) and at the top of a roof hairpin (Asn51) in the heteronuclear single quantum coherence spectra. The binding of SR1 to GroES caused the cross peaks to disappear simultaneously, and hence it occurred in a single-step cooperative manner with significant immobilization of the whole GroES structure. The binding was thus entropic with a positive entropy change (219 J/mol/K) and a positive enthalpy change (35 kJ/mol), and the binding constant was estimated at 1.9\xc3\x97105 M-1 at 25\xc2\xb0C. The NMR titration in 3 mM ATP also indicated that the binding constant between GroES and SR1 increased more than tenfold as compared with the binding constant in 3 mM ADP. These results will be discussed in relation to the structure and mechanisms of the chaperonin GroEL/GroES complex. labels: #Chaperonins#Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy#Protein Conformation#Thermodynamics'
b'In this study, we used 454-pyrosequencing to report the highly diverse diazotroph communities in the Kuroshio and its adjacent waters along a transect across the Tokara Strait, Japan. Terrestrial input from the islands resulted in a highly heterogeneous diazotroph community within a relatively small geographic region, which was presumably caused by the remarkably different responses of UCYN-A2, UCYN-C and Trichodesmium to the steep environmental gradient. On the other hand, most major cyanobacterial OTUs found in this study were also detected in an unpublished dataset from the upstream Kuroshio, which suggests transportation of diazotrophs by the Kuroshio in large geographic scale. A significant amount of UCYN-C was found in the Kuroshio and offshore stations, suggesting the importance of this potentially overlooked group in the western North Pacific Ocean (WNPO). Moreover, a novel sublineage of UCYN-B was defined, which was predominant in an oligotrophic water sample; and it was also found to be widely distributed in oceanic waters. In addition, the apparent increase in relative abundance of UCYN-A2 from offshore to near-shore water provides evidence for the earlier and under-debating view that UCYN-A2 prefers coastal conditions. Our report provides new knowledge for understanding the phylogeny and ecology of unicellular cyanobacterial diazotrophs in WNPO. labels: #Cyanobacteria#Japan#Phylogeny#Water Microbiology'
b'We have previously engineered new RNase P-based ribozyme variants with improved in vitro catalytic activity. In this study, we employed a novel engineered variant to target a shared mRNA region of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) immediate early proteins 1 (IE1) and 2 (IE2), which are essential for the expression of viral early and late genes as well as viral growth. Ribozyme F-R228-IE represents a novel variant that possesses three unique base substitution point mutations at the catalytic domain of RNase P catalytic RNA. Compared to F-M1-IE that is the ribozyme derived from the wild type RNase P catalytic RNA sequence, the functional variant F-R228-IE cleaved the target mRNA sequence in vitro at least 100 times more efficiently. In cultured cells, expression of F-R228-IE resulted in IE1/IE2 expression reduction by 98-99% and in HCMV production reduction by 50,000 folds. In contrast, expression of F-M1-IE resulted in IE1/IE2 expression reduction by less than 80% and in viral production reduction by 200 folds. Studies of the ribozyme-mediated antiviral effects in cultured cells suggest that overall viral early and late gene expression and viral growth were inhibited due to the ribozyme-mediated reduction of HCMV IE1 and IE2 expression. Our results provide direct evidence that engineered RNase P ribozymes, such as F-R228-IE, can serve as a novel class of inhibitors for the treatment and prevention of HCMV infection. Moreover, these results suggest that F-R228-IE, with novel and unique mutations at the catalytic domain to enhance ribozyme activity, can be a candidate for the construction of effective agents for anti-HCMV therapy. labels: #Cytomegalovirus#Genes, Immediate-Early#Humans#RNA, Catalytic#Ribonuclease P'
b'BACKGROUND: Type 1 diabetic patients and non-diabetic patients were referred for evaluation for chronic exertional compartment syndrome (CECS) based on clinical examination and complaints of activity-related leg pain in the region of the tibialis anterior muscle. Previous studies using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) showed greater deoxygenation during exercise for CECS patients versus healthy controls; however, this comparison has not been done for diabetic CECS patients.METHODS: We used NIRS to test for differences in oxygenation kinetics for Type 1 diabetic patients diagnosed with (CECS-diabetics, n = 9) versus diabetic patients without (CON-diabetics, n = 10) leg anterior chronic exertional compartment syndrome. Comparisons were also made between non-diabetic CECS patients (n = 11) and healthy controls (CON, n = 10). The experimental protocol consisted of thigh arterial cuff occlusion (AO, 1-minute duration), and treadmill running to reproduce symptoms. NIRS variables generated were resting StO2%, and oxygen recovery following AO. Also, during and following treadmill running the magnitude of deoxygenation and oxygen recovery, respectively, were determined.RESULTS: There was no difference in resting StO2% between CECS-diabetics (78.2\xc2\xb112.6%) vs. CON-diabetics (69.1\xc2\xb120.8%), or between CECS (69.3\xc2\xb116.2) vs. CON (75.9\xc2\xb111.2%). However, oxygen recovery following AO was significantly slower for CECS (1.8\xc2\xb10.8%/sec) vs. CON (3.8\xc2\xb11.7%/sec) (P = 0.002); these data were not different between the diabetic groups. StO2% during exercise was lower (greater deoxygenation) for CECS-diabetics (6.3\xc2\xb18.6%) vs. CON-diabetics (40.4\xc2\xb122.0%), and for CECS (11.3\xc2\xb116.8%) vs. CON (34.1\xc2\xb121.2%) (P<0.05 for both). The rate of oxygen recovery post exercise was faster for CECS-diabetics (3.5\xc2\xb12.6%/sec) vs. CON-diabetics (1.4\xc2\xb10.8%/sec) (P = 0.04), and there was a tendency of difference for CECS (3.1\xc2\xb11.4%/sec) vs. CON (1.9\xc2\xb11.3%/sec) (P = 0.05).CONCLUSION: The greater deoxygenation during treadmill running for the CECS-diabetics group (vs. CON-diabetics) is in line with previous studies (and with the present study) that compared non-diabetic CECS patients with healthy controls. Our findings could suggest that NIRS may be useful as a diagnostic tool for assessing Type 1 diabetic patients suspected of CECS. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Chronic Disease#Compartment Syndromes#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Humans#Muscle, Skeletal#Oxygen#Spectroscopy, Near-Infrared'
b'Composting is viewed as one of the primary methods to treat organic wastes. Co-composting may improve the efficiency of this treatment by establishing the most suitable conditions for decomposers than those present in the individual wastes. Given that bacteria and fungi are the driving agents of composting, information about the composition of their communities and dynamics during composting may improve reproducibility, performance and quality of the final compost as well as help to evaluate the potential human health risk and the choice of the most appropriate application procedure. In this study, the co-composting of mixtures containing two similar components (organic fraction of municipal solid waste and sawdust polluted by oil) and one discriminate component (sewage sludges of different origin) were investigated. Bacterial and fungal community successions in the two mixtures were analyzed during the composting process by determining the change in their structural dynamics using qPCR and 454 pyrosequencing methods in a lab experiment for a period of 270 days. During the initial composting stage, the number of 16S bacterial copies was (3.0\xc2\xb10.2) x 106 and (0.4\xc2\xb10.0) x 107 g-1, and the Rhodospiralles and Lactobacialles orders dominated. Fungal communities had (2.9\xc2\xb10.0) x105 and (6.1\xc2\xb10.2) x105 ITS copies g-1, and the Saccharomycetales order dominated. At the end of the thermophilic stage on the 30th day of composting, bacterial and fungal communities underwent significant changes: dominants changed and their relative abundance decreased. Typical compost residents included Flavobacteriales, Chitinophagaceae and Bacterioidetes for bacteria and Microascaceae, Dothideomycetes, Eurotiomycetes, Sordariomycetes, and Agaricomycetes for fungi. During the later composting stages, the dominating taxa of both bacterial and fungal communities remained, while their relative abundance decreased. In accordance with the change in the dominating OTUs, it was concluded that the dynamics of the bacterial and fungal communities were not similar. Analysis by non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) revealed that the bacterial communities of the two composts became progressively more similar; a similar trend was followed by the fungal community. labels: #Bacterial Physiological Phenomena#Fungi#Soil'
b'Alcelaphine herpesvirus 1 (AlHV-1) is a \xce\xb3-herpesvirus (\xce\xb3-HV) belonging to the macavirus genus that persistently infects its natural host, the wildebeest, without inducing any clinical sign. However, cross-transmission to other ruminant species causes a deadly lymphoproliferative disease named malignant catarrhal fever (MCF). AlHV-1 ORF73 encodes the latency-associated nuclear antigen (LANA)-homolog protein (aLANA). Recently, aLANA has been shown to be essential for viral persistence in vivo and induction of MCF, suggesting that aLANA shares key properties of other \xce\xb3-HV genome maintenance proteins. Here we have investigated the evasion of the immune response by aLANA. We found that a glycin/glutamate (GE)-rich repeat domain was sufficient to inhibit in cis the presentation of an epitope linked to aLANA. Although antigen presentation in absence of GE was dependent upon proteasomal degradation of aLANA, a lack of GE did not affect protein turnover. However, protein self-synthesis de novo was downregulated by aLANA GE, a mechanism directly associated with reduced antigen presentation in vitro. Importantly, codon-modification of aLANA GE resulted in increased antigen presentation in vitro and enhanced induction of antigen-specific CD8+ T cell responses in vivo, indicating that mRNA constraints in GE rather than peptidic sequence are responsible for cis-limitation of antigen presentation. Nonetheless, GE-mediated limitation of antigen presentation in cis of aLANA was dispensable during MCF as rabbits developed the disease after virus infection irrespective of the expression of full-length or GE-deficient aLANA. Altogether, we provide evidence that inhibition in cis of protein synthesis through GE is likely involved in long-term immune evasion of AlHV-1 latent persistence in the wildebeest natural host, but dispensable in MCF pathogenesis. labels: #Animals#Antigen Presentation#Cattle#Gammaherpesvirinae#Glutamic Acid#Glycine#Immune Evasion#Malignant Catarrh#Viral Proteins#Virus Latency'
b'Non-fasting hypertriacylglycerolaemia is a risk factor for CVD and the amount of fat in a meal seems to be the main factor influencing postprandial lipaemia. Although several studies suggest that Ca can increase faecal fat excretion, it is not known whether Ca can decrease postprandial TAG. This study aimed to evaluate the influence of dietary Ca (DC) and supplemental Ca (SC) on lipaemia, glucose metabolism, C-reactive protein (CRP) and adiponectin during postprandial period in obese women challenged with a high-fat meal. In this cross-over controlled trial, sixteen obese women aged 20-50 years were randomly assigned to receive three test meals (approximately 2900 kJ; 48 % fat): high DC (547 mg DC), high SC (HSCM; 500 mg SC-calcium carbonate) and low Ca (42 mg DC). Blood samples were collected in the fasting period and at minutes 120 and 240 after meals to evaluate total cholesterol and fractions, TAG, glucose, insulin, high-sensitivity CRP and adiponectin. Serum levels of TAG and insulin increased significantly after all test meals. Only after HSCM total cholesterol did not present a significant increase and LDL-cholesterol had a significant decrease. Postprandial glucose, HDL-cholesterol, CRP and adiponectin did not present significant changes after the three test meals. The comparative analysis of the effects of the three test meals on serum lipids, glucose, insulin, CRP and adiponectin revealed no significant meal-by-time interaction. These results suggest that in obese women challenged with a high-fat meal DC and SC do not interfere with postprandial lipaemia, glucose metabolism, CRP and adiponectin. labels: #Adiponectin#Adult#Blood Glucose#C-Reactive Protein#Calcium, Dietary#Cholesterol, HDL#Cholesterol, LDL#Cross-Over Studies#Diet#Diet, High-Fat#Dietary Carbohydrates#Dietary Fats#Dietary Proteins#Dietary Supplements#Fasting#Female#Humans#Hyperlipidemias#Insulin#Meals#Middle Aged#Nutrition Assessment#Obesity#Postprandial Period#Single-Blind Method#Triglycerides#Young Adult'
b"Neurodegenerative diseases pose an extraordinary threat to the world's aging population, yet no disease-modifying therapies are available. Although genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified hundreds of risk loci for neurodegeneration, the mechanisms by which these loci influence disease risk are largely unknown. Here, we investigated the association between common genetic variants at the 7p21 locus and risk of the neurodegenerative disease frontotemporal lobar degeneration. We showed that variants associated with disease risk correlate with increased expression of the 7p21 gene TMEM106B and no other genes; co-localization analyses implicated a common causal variant underlying both association with disease and association with TMEM106B expression in lymphoblastoid cell lines and human brain. Furthermore, increases in the amount of TMEM106B resulted in increases in abnormal lysosomal phenotypes and cell toxicity in both immortalized cell lines and neurons. We then combined fine-mapping, bioinformatics, and bench-based approaches to functionally characterize all candidate causal variants at this locus. This approach identified a noncoding variant, rs1990620, that differentially recruits CTCF in lymphoblastoid cell lines and human brain to influence CTCF-mediated long-range chromatin-looping interactions between multiple cis-regulatory elements, including the TMEM106B promoter. Our findings thus provide an in-depth analysis of the 7p21 locus linked by GWASs to frontotemporal lobar degeneration, nominating a causal variant and causal mechanism for allele-specific expression and disease association at this locus. Finally, we show that genetic variants associated with risk of neurodegenerative diseases beyond frontotemporal lobar degeneration are enriched in CTCF-binding sites found in brain-relevant tissues, implicating CTCF-mediated gene regulation in risk of neurodegeneration more generally. labels: #Alleles#Brain#CCCTC-Binding Factor#Cell Line, Tumor#Chromatin#Dementia#Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Regulation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genotype#HeLa Cells#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neurons#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Repressor Proteins#Risk"
b'The cells of the innate immune system, in addition to their capacity to elicit immunity, play a substantial role in immune tolerance induction. Our group has recently shown that a distinct subset of MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidsuppressive macrophages is increased in the lung by intravenous (IV) administration of mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSC) and induces immune tolerance. Herein, we demonstrate that circulating CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes are precursors to MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages in the lung and required for MSC-induced tolerance in a mouse model of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU). Analysis revealed that IV MSC induced an increase in IL-10-expressing MHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages in the lung with a concomitant decrease in CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes. Selective depletion of circulating CD11bhiLy6Chicells abrogated the effects of MSC in the induction of IL-10hiMHC IIhiB220hiCD11bmidmacrophages and immune tolerance in EAU mice. Similarly, an increase in CD4+CD25+Foxp3+Tregs by MSCs was also reversed by CD11bhiLy6Chicell depletion. These results suggest that CD11bhiLy6Chimonocytes are critical for MSC-induced immune tolerance. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Ly#Autoimmune Diseases#Disease Models, Animal#Immune Tolerance#Immunity, Innate#Lung#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Monocytes#Stem Cell Niche#Uveitis'
b'As a highly conserved mechanism, autophagy is responsible for the transport of cytoplasmic constituents in the vacuoles or lysosomes. Moreover, autophagy is essential for plant development and various stress responses. In this study, 34 MeATGs were systematically identified in cassava, and their transcripts were commonly regulated by Xanthomonas axonopodis pv manihotis (Xam). Through transient expression in Nicotiana benthamiana, the subcellular locations of 4 MeATG8s were revealed. Notably, MeWRKY20 was identified as physical interacting protein of MeATG8a/8f/8h and upstream transcriptional activator of MeATG8a. Through virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS) in cassava, we found that MeATG8-silenced and MeWRKY20-silenced plants resulted in disease sensitive, with less callose depositions and lower autophagic activity. This study may facilitate our understanding of the upstream MeWRKY20 and underlying target as well as interacting proteins of MeATG8s in immune response. Taken together, MeWRKY20 and MeATG8a/8f/8h are essential for disease resistance against bacterial blight by forming various transcriptional modules and interacting complex in cassava. labels: #Autophagy#Autophagy-Related Protein 8 Family#Genes, Plant#Manihot#Plant Diseases#Plant Proteins#Plants, Genetically Modified#Tobacco#Trans-Activators#Xanthomonas axonopodis'
b"Brain magnetic resonance imaging is an important tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of multiple sclerosis patients. However, magnetic resonance imaging alone provides limited information for predicting an individual patient's disability progression. In part, this is because magnetic resonance imaging lacks sensitivity and specificity for detecting chronic diffuse and multi-focal inflammation mediated by activated microglia/macrophages. The aim of this study was to test for an association between 18 kDa translocator protein brain positron emission tomography signal, which arises largely from microglial activation, and measures of subsequent disease progression in multiple sclerosis patients. Twenty-one patients with multiple sclerosis (seven with secondary progressive disease and 14 with a relapsing remitting disease course) underwent T1- and T2-weighted and magnetization transfer magnetic resonance imaging at baseline and after 1 year. Positron emission tomography scanning with the translocator protein radioligand 11C-PBR28 was performed at baseline. Brain tissue and lesion volumes were segmented from the T1- and T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and relative 11C-PBR28 uptake in the normal-appearing white matter was estimated as a distribution volume ratio with respect to a caudate pseudo-reference region. Normal-appearing white matter distribution volume ratio at baseline was correlated with enlarging T2-hyperintense lesion volumes over the subsequent year (\xcf\x81 = 0.59, P = 0.01). A post hoc analysis showed that this association reflected behaviour in the subgroup of relapsing remitting patients (\xcf\x81 = 0.74, P = 0.008). By contrast, in the subgroup of secondary progressive patients, microglial activation at baseline was correlated with later progression of brain atrophy (\xcf\x81 = 0.86, P = 0.04). A regression model including the baseline normal-appearing white matter distribution volume ratio, T2 lesion volume and normal-appearing white matter magnetization transfer ratio for all of the patients combined explained over 90% of the variance in enlarging lesion volume over the subsequent 1 year. Glial activation in white matter assessed by translocator protein PET significantly improves predictions of white matter lesion enlargement in relapsing remitting patients and is associated with greater brain atrophy in secondary progressive disease over a period of short term follow-up. labels: #Acetamides#Adult#Atrophy#Brain#Carbon Radioisotopes#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Microglia#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Chronic Progressive#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting#Organ Size#Positron-Emission Tomography#Pyridines#Receptors, GABA#White Matter#Young Adult"
b"Network-sensitive neuroimaging methods have been used to characterize large-scale brain network degeneration in Alzheimer's disease and its prodrome. However, few studies have investigated the combined effect of Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease on brain network degeneration. Our study sought to examine the intrinsic functional connectivity and structural covariance network changes in 235 prodromal and clinical Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. We focused particularly on two higher-order cognitive networks-the default mode network and the executive control network. We found divergent functional connectivity and structural covariance patterns in Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. Alzheimer's disease patients without cerebrovascular disease, but not Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease, showed reductions in posterior default mode network functional connectivity. By comparison, while both groups exhibited parietal reductions in executive control network functional connectivity, only Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease showed increases in frontal executive control network connectivity. Importantly, these distinct executive control network changes were recapitulated in prodromal Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease. Across Alzheimer's disease patients with and without cerebrovascular disease, higher default mode network functional connectivity z-scores correlated with greater hippocampal volumes while higher executive control network functional connectivity z-scores correlated with greater white matter changes. In parallel, only Alzheimer's disease patients without cerebrovascular disease showed increased default mode network structural covariance, while only Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease showed increased executive control network structural covariance compared to controls. Our findings demonstrate the differential neural network structural and functional changes in Alzheimer's disease with and without cerebrovascular disease, suggesting that the underlying pathology of Alzheimer's disease patients with cerebrovascular disease might differ from those without cerebrovascular disease and reflect a combination of more severe cerebrovascular disease and less severe Alzheimer's disease network degeneration phenotype. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alzheimer Disease#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cerebrovascular Disorders#Cognitive Dysfunction#Executive Function#Female#Functional Neuroimaging#Hippocampus#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Neural Pathways#Organ Size"
b'Humans frequently estimate the size of objects to grasp them. In fact, when performing an action, our perception is focused towards the visual properties of the object that enable us to successfully execute the action. However, the motor system is also able to influence perception, but only a few studies have reported evidence for action-induced visual perception modifications. Here, we aimed to look for a feature-specific perceptual modulation before and after a reaching or a grasping action. Human participants were instructed to either reach for or grasp two-dimensional bars of different size and to perform a size perceptual task before and after the action in two contexts: in one where they knew the subsequent type of movement and in the other where they did not know. We found significant modifications of perceived size of stimuli more pronounced after grasping than after reaching. The mere knowledge of the subsequent action type significantly affected the size perception before the movement execution, with consistent results in both manual and verbal reports. These data represent direct evidence that, in natural conditions without manipulation of visual information, the action type and the action context dynamically modulate size perception, by shaping it according to relevant information required to recognize and interact with objects. labels: #Adult#Female#Form Perception#Hand Strength#Humans#Male#Movement#Psychomotor Performance#Size Perception#Young Adult'
b'A large part of classical visual psychophysics was concerned with the fundamental question of how pattern information is initially encoded in the human visual system. From these studies a relatively standard model of early spatial vision emerged, based on spatial frequency and orientation-specific channels followed by an accelerating nonlinearity and divisive normalization: contrast gain-control. Here we implement such a model in an image-computable way, allowing it to take arbitrary luminance images as input. Testing our implementation on classical psychophysical data, we find that it explains contrast detection data including the ModelFest data, contrast discrimination data, and oblique masking data, using a single set of parameters. Leveraging the advantage of an image-computable model, we test our model against a recent dataset using natural images as masks. We find that the model explains these data reasonably well, too. To explain data obtained at different presentation durations, our model requires different parameters to achieve an acceptable fit. In addition, we show that contrast gain-control with the fitted parameters results in a very sparse encoding of luminance information, in line with notions from efficient coding. Translating the standard early spatial vision model to be image-computable resulted in two further insights: First, the nonlinear processing requires a denser sampling of spatial frequency and orientation than optimal coding suggests. Second, the normalization needs to be fairly local in space to fit the data obtained with natural image masks. Finally, our image-computable model can serve as tool in future quantitative analyses: It allows optimized stimuli to be used to test the model and variants of it, with potential applications as an image-quality metric. In addition, it may serve as a building block for models of higher level processing. labels: #Computer Simulation#Contrast Sensitivity#Humans#Orientation#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Psychophysics#Space Perception#Spatial Navigation'
b'Neurological dysfunction following epileptic seizures is a well-recognized phenomenon. Several potential mechanisms have been suggested to explain postictal dysfunction, with alteration in cerebral blood flow being one possibility. These vascular disturbances may be long lasting and localized to brain areas involved in seizure generation and propagation, as supported by both animal and human studies. Therefore, measuring perfusion changes in the postictal period may help localize the seizure onset zone. Arterial spin labelling is a non-invasive, rapid and reproducible magnetic resonance imaging technique that measures cerebral perfusion. To this end, we measured postictal perfusion in patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy who were admitted to our seizure-monitoring unit for presurgical evaluation. Twenty-one patients were prospectively recruited and underwent arterial spin labelling scanning within 90 min of a habitual seizure. Patients also underwent a similar scan in the interictal period, after they were seizure-free for at least 24 h. The acquired scans were subtracted to identify the areas of significant postictal hypoperfusion. The location of the maximal hypoperfusion was compared to the presumed seizure onset zone to assess for concordance. Also, the localizing value of this technique was compared to other structural and functional imaging modalities. Postictal perfusion reductions of>15 units (ml/100 g/l) were seen in 15/21 patients (71.4%). In 12/15 (80%) of these patients, the location of the hypoperfusion was partially or fully concordant with the location of the presumed seizure onset zone. This technique compared favourably to other neuroimaging modalities, being similar or superior to structural magnetic resonance imaging in 52% of cases, ictal single-photon emission computed tomography in 60% of cases and interictal positron emission tomography in 71% of cases. Better arterial spin labelling results were obtained in patients in whom the seizure onset zone was discernible based on non-invasive data. Thus, this technique is a safe, non-invasive and relatively inexpensive tool to detect postictal hypoperfusion that may provide useful data to localize the seizure onset zone. This technique may be incorporated into the battery of conventional investigations for presurgical evaluation of patients with drug resistant focal epilepsy. labels: #Adult#Brain#Brain Mapping#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Drug Resistant Epilepsy#Electroencephalography#Epilepsies, Partial#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Positron-Emission Tomography#Prospective Studies#Seizures#Tomography, Emission-Computed, Single-Photon#Young Adult'
b'Mutations in FUS are causative for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with a dominant mode of inheritance. In trying to model FUS-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in mouse it is clear that FUS is dosage-sensitive and effects arise from overexpression per se in transgenic strains. Novel models are required that maintain physiological levels of FUS expression and that recapitulate the human disease-with progressive loss of motor neurons in heterozygous animals. Here, we describe a new humanized FUS-ALS mouse with a frameshift mutation, which fulfils both criteria: the FUS Delta14 mouse. Heterozygous animals express mutant humanized FUS protein at physiological levels and have adult onset progressive motor neuron loss and denervation of neuromuscular junctions. Additionally, we generated a novel antibody to the unique human frameshift peptide epitope, allowing specific identification of mutant FUS only. Using our new FUSDelta14 ALS mouse-antibody system we show that neurodegeneration occurs in the absence of FUS protein aggregation. FUS mislocalization increases as disease progresses, and mutant FUS accumulates at the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Further, transcriptomic analyses show progressive changes in ribosomal protein levels and mitochondrial function as early disease stages are initiated. Thus, our new physiological mouse model has provided novel insight into the early pathogenesis of FUS-ALS. labels: #Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis#Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Endoplasmic Reticulum, Rough#Frameshift Mutation#Gene Dosage#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Knock-In Techniques#Heterozygote#Humans#Mice#Mitochondria#Motor Neurons#Neuromuscular Junction#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#RNA-Binding Protein FUS#Ribosomal Proteins'
b'Glioblastoma are highly aggressive brain tumours that are associated with an extremely poor prognosis. Within these tumours exists a subpopulation of highly plastic self-renewing cancer cells that retain the ability to expand ex vivo as tumourspheres, induce tumour growth in mice, and have been implicated in radio- and chemo-resistance. Although their identity and fate are regulated by external cues emanating from endothelial cells, the nature of such signals remains unknown. Here, we used a mass spectrometry proteomic approach to characterize the factors released by brain endothelial cells. We report the identification of the vasoactive peptide apelin as a central regulator for endothelial-mediated maintenance of glioblastoma patient-derived cells with stem-like properties. Genetic and pharmacological targeting of apelin cognate receptor abrogates apelin- and endothelial-mediated expansion of glioblastoma patient-derived cells with stem-like properties in vitro and suppresses tumour growth in vivo. Functionally, selective competitive antagonists of apelin receptor were shown to be safe and effective in reducing tumour expansion and lengthening the survival of intracranially xenografted mice. Therefore, the apelin/apelin receptor signalling nexus may operate as a paracrine signal that sustains tumour cell expansion and progression, suggesting that apelin is a druggable factor in glioblastoma. labels: #Animals#Apelin#Apelin Receptors#Brain Neoplasms#Cell Proliferation#Cell Survival#Endothelial Cells#Glioblastoma#HEK293 Cells#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Mass Spectrometry#Mice#Molecular Targeted Therapy#Proteomics#RNA, Small Interfering#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'The autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias, referred to as spinocerebellar ataxias in genetic nomenclature, are a rare group of progressive neurodegenerative disorders characterized by loss of balance and coordination. Despite the identification of numerous disease genes, a substantial number of cases still remain without a genetic diagnosis. Here, we report five novel spinocerebellar ataxia genes, FAT2, PLD3, KIF26B, EP300, and FAT1, identified through a combination of exome sequencing in genetically undiagnosed families and targeted resequencing of exome candidates in a cohort of singletons. We validated almost all genes genetically, assessed damaging effects of the gene variants in cell models and further consolidated a role for several of these genes in the aetiology of spinocerebellar ataxia through network analysis. Our work links spinocerebellar ataxia to alterations in synaptic transmission and transcription regulation, and identifies these as the main shared mechanisms underlying the genetically diverse spinocerebellar ataxia types. labels: #Animals#COS Cells#Cadherins#Cercopithecus aethiops#E1A-Associated p300 Protein#Exome#Female#Gene Regulatory Networks#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Kinesin#Male#Pedigree#Phospholipase D#Plasmids#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Spinocerebellar Ataxias#Transfection'
b'Neuroaxonal pathology is a main determinant of disease progression in multiple sclerosis; however, its underlying pathophysiological mechanisms, including its link to inflammatory demyelination and temporal occurrence in the disease course are still unknown. We used ultra-high field (7 T), ultra-high gradient strength diffusion and T1/T2-weighted myelin-sensitive magnetic resonance imaging to characterize microstructural changes in myelin and neuroaxonal integrity in the cortex and white matter in early stage multiple sclerosis, their distribution in lesional and normal-appearing tissue, and their correlations with neurological disability. Twenty-six early stage multiple sclerosis subjects (disease duration \xe2\x89\xa45 years) and 24 age-matched healthy controls underwent 7 T T2*-weighted imaging for cortical lesion segmentation and 3 T T1/T2-weighted myelin-sensitive imaging and neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging for assessing microstructural myelin, axonal and dendrite integrity in lesional and normal-appearing tissue of the cortex and the white matter. Conventional mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy metrics were also assessed for comparison. Cortical lesions were identified in 92% of early multiple sclerosis subjects and they were characterized by lower intracellular volume fraction (P = 0.015 by paired t-test), lower myelin-sensitive contrast (P = 0.030 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) and higher mean diffusivity (P = 0.022 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) relative to the contralateral normal-appearing cortex. Similar findings were observed in white matter lesions relative to normal-appearing white matter (all P<0.001), accompanied by an increased orientation dispersion (P<0.001 by paired t-test) and lower fractional anisotropy (P<0.001 by related-samples Wilcoxon signed-rank test) suggestive of less coherent underlying fibre orientation. Additionally, the normal-appearing white matter in multiple sclerosis subjects had diffusely lower intracellular volume fractions than the white matter in controls (P = 0.029 by unpaired t-test). Cortical thickness did not differ significantly between multiple sclerosis subjects and controls. Higher orientation dispersion in the left primary motor-somatosensory cortex was associated with increased Expanded Disability Status Scale scores in surface-based general linear modelling (P<0.05). Microstructural pathology was frequent in early multiple sclerosis, and present mainly focally in cortical lesions, whereas more diffusely in white matter. These results suggest early demyelination with loss of cells and/or cell volumes in cortical and white matter lesions, with additional axonal dispersion in white matter lesions. In the cortex, focal lesion changes might precede diffuse atrophy with cortical thinning. Findings in the normal-appearing white matter reveal early axonal pathology outside inflammatory demyelinating lesions. labels: #Adult#Anisotropy#Axons#Brain#Cerebral Cortex#Cohort Studies#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Disease Progression#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Myelin Sheath#Prospective Studies#White Matter'
b'Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of supplemental macular carotenoids (including versus not including meso-zeaxanthin) in combination with coantioxidants on visual function in patients with nonadvanced age-related macular degeneration.Methods: In this study, 121 participants were randomly assigned to group 1 (Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 formulation with a low dose [25 mg] of zinc and an addition of 10 mg meso-zeaxanthin; n = 60) or group 2 (Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 formulation with a low dose [25 mg]of zinc; n = 61). Visual function was assessed using best-corrected visual acuity, contrast sensitivity (CS), glare disability, retinal straylight, photostress recovery time, reading performance, and the National Eye Institute Visual Function Questionnaire-25. Macular pigment was measured using customized heterochromatic flicker photometry.Results: There was a statistically significant improvement in the primary outcome measure (letter CS at 6 cycles per degree [6 cpd]) over time (P = 0.013), and this observed improvement was statistically comparable between interventions (P = 0.881). Statistically significant improvements in several secondary outcome visual function measures (letter CS at 1.2 and 2.4 cpd; mesopic and photopic CS at all spatial frequencies; mesopic glare disability at 1.5, 3, and 6 cpd; photopic glare disability at 1.5, 3, 6, and 12 cpd; photostress recovery time; retinal straylight; mean and maximum reading speed) were also observed over time (P<0.05, for all), and were statistically comparable between interventions (P>0.05, for all). Statistically significant increases in macular pigment at all eccentricities were observed over time (P<0.0005, for all), and the degree of augmentation was statistically comparable between interventions (P>0.05).Conclusions: Antioxidant supplementation in patients with nonadvanced age-related macular degeneration results in significant increases in macular pigment and improvements in CS and other measures of visual function. (Clinical trial, http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN13894787). labels: #Aged#Antioxidants#Ascorbic Acid#Contrast Sensitivity#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Glare#Humans#Lutein#Macular Degeneration#Macular Pigment#Male#Middle Aged#Photometry#Reading#Trace Elements#Visual Acuity#Vitamin E#Zeaxanthins#Zinc'
b'Mitochondrial calcium homeostasis is a tightly controlled process that is required for a variety of cellular functions. The mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex plays a critical role in this process. MICU2 is a major component of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter complex and its deficiency has been shown to impair mitochondrial calcium [Ca2+]m homeostasis although the exact mechanism remains unclear. We used exome sequencing, positional mapping, and functional characterization of MICU2 deficiency to investigate the role of MICU2 in calcium homeostasis. Using combined autozygome/exome analysis, a homozygous truncating mutation in MICU2 was found to fully segregate with a neurodevelopmental disorder in the form of severe cognitive impairment, spasticity, and white matter involvement in a multiplex consanguineous family. Patient-derived MICU2-deficient cells displayed impaired [Ca2+]m homeostasis, with associated increase in mitochondrial sensitivity to oxidative stress, and abnormal regulation of inner mitochondrial membrane potential. This is the first demonstration of MICU2 deficiency in humans, which we suggest causes a distinct neurodevelopmental phenotype secondary to impaired mitochondrial calcium uniporter-mediated regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis. labels: #Brain#Calcium#Calcium Channels#Case-Control Studies#Cells, Cultured#Child#Cognitive Dysfunction#Female#Fibroblasts#Homeostasis#Humans#Leukoencephalopathies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Mitochondria#Muscle Spasticity#Mutation#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Oxidative Stress#Pedigree#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Siblings'
b'Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome represents a phenotypic spectrum of motor, sensory, and cranial nerve neuropathy, often with ataxia, optic atrophy and respiratory problems leading to ventilator-dependence. Loss-of-function mutations in two riboflavin transporter genes, SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, have recently been linked to Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome. However, the genetic frequency, neuropathology and downstream consequences of riboflavin transporter mutations are unclear. By screening a large cohort of 132 patients with early-onset severe sensory, motor and cranial nerve neuropathy we confirmed the strong genetic link between riboflavin transporter mutations and Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome, identifying 22 pathogenic mutations in SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, 14 of which were novel. Brain and spinal cord neuropathological examination of two cases with SLC52A3 mutations showed classical symmetrical brainstem lesions resembling pathology seen in mitochondrial disease, including severe neuronal loss in the lower cranial nerve nuclei, anterior horns and corresponding nerves, atrophy of the spinothalamic and spinocerebellar tracts and posterior column-medial lemniscus pathways. Mitochondrial dysfunction has previously been implicated in an array of neurodegenerative disorders. Since riboflavin metabolites are critical components of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, we hypothesized that reduced riboflavin transport would result in impaired mitochondrial activity, and confirmed this using in vitro and in vivo models. Electron transport chain complex I and complex II activity were decreased in SLC52A2 patient fibroblasts, while global knockdown of the single Drosophila melanogaster riboflavin transporter homologue revealed reduced levels of riboflavin, downstream metabolites, and electron transport chain complex I activity. This in turn led to abnormal mitochondrial membrane potential, respiratory chain activity and morphology. Riboflavin transporter knockdown in Drosophila also resulted in severely impaired locomotor activity and reduced lifespan, mirroring patient pathology, and these phenotypes could be partially rescued using a novel esterified derivative of riboflavin. Our findings expand the genetic, clinical and neuropathological features of Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome, implicate mitochondrial dysfunction as a downstream consequence of riboflavin transporter gene defects, and validate riboflavin esters as a potential therapeutic strategy. labels: #Adolescent#Animals#Atrophy#Brain#Bulbar Palsy, Progressive#Child#Child, Preschool#Citrate (si)-Synthase#Drosophila melanogaster#Electron Transport Complex I#Electron Transport Complex II#Electron Transport Complex III#Female#Fibroblasts#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Infant#Locomotion#Longevity#Male#Membrane Transport Proteins#Microscopy, Electron#Neural Pathways#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Riboflavin#Spinal Cord#Spinocerebellar Tracts#Spinothalamic Tracts#Young Adult'
b'Prognostic markers of primary progressive multiple sclerosis evolution are needed. We investigated the added value of magnetic resonance imaging measures of brain and cervical cord damage in predicting long-term clinical worsening of primary progressive multiple sclerosis compared to simple clinical assessment. In 54 patients, conventional and diffusion tensor brain scans and cervical cord T1-weighted scans were acquired at baseline and after 15 months. Clinical evaluation was performed after 5 and 15 years in 49 patients. Lesion load, brain and cord atrophy, mean diffusivity and fractional anisotropy values from the brain normal-appearing white matter and grey matter were obtained. Using linear regression models, we screened the clinical and imaging variables as independent predictors of 15-year disability change (measured on the expanded disability status scale). At 15 years, 90% of the patients had disability progression. Integrating clinical and imaging variables at 15 months predicted disability changes at 15 years better than clinical factors at 5 years (R2 = 61% versus R2 = 57%). The model predicted long-term disability change with a precision within one point in 38 of 49 patients (77.6%). Integration of clinical and imaging measures allows identification of primary progressive multiple sclerosis patients at risk of long-term disease progression 4 years earlier than when using clinical assessment alone. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anisotropy#Atrophy#Brain#Diffusion Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Disease Progression#Female#Gray Matter#Humans#Linear Models#Longitudinal Studies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Chronic Progressive#Prognosis#Spinal Cord#White Matter'
b'Genetic epilepsies are caused by mutations in a range of different genes, many of them encoding ion channels, receptors or transporters. While the number of detected variants and genes increased dramatically in the recent years, pleiotropic effects have also been recognized, revealing that clinical syndromes with various degrees of severity arise from a single gene, a single mutation, or from different mutations showing similar functional defects. Accordingly, several genes coding for GABAA receptor subunits have been linked to a spectrum of benign to severe epileptic disorders and it was shown that a loss of function presents the major correlated pathomechanism. Here, we identified six variants in GABRA3 encoding the \xce\xb13-subunit of the GABAA receptor. This gene is located on chromosome Xq28 and has not been previously associated with human disease. Five missense variants and one microduplication were detected in four families and two sporadic cases presenting with a range of epileptic seizure types, a varying degree of intellectual disability and developmental delay, sometimes with dysmorphic features or nystagmus. The variants co-segregated mostly but not completely with the phenotype in the families, indicating in some cases incomplete penetrance, involvement of other genes, or presence of phenocopies. Overall, males were more severely affected and there were three asymptomatic female mutation carriers compared to only one male without a clinical phenotype. X-chromosome inactivation studies could not explain the phenotypic variability in females. Three detected missense variants are localized in the extracellular GABA-binding NH2-terminus, one in the M2-M3 linker and one in the M4 transmembrane segment of the \xce\xb13-subunit. Functional studies in Xenopus laevis oocytes revealed a variable but significant reduction of GABA-evoked anion currents for all mutants compared to wild-type receptors. The degree of current reduction correlated partially with the phenotype. The microduplication disrupted GABRA3 expression in fibroblasts of the affected patient. In summary, our results reveal that rare loss-of-function variants in GABRA3 increase the risk for a varying combination of epilepsy, intellectual disability/developmental delay and dysmorphic features, presenting in some pedigrees with an X-linked inheritance pattern. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#Brain Diseases#Child#Child, Preschool#Cleft Palate#Developmental Disabilities#Epilepsy#Facies#Female#Genetic Variation#Humans#Intellectual Disability#Male#Microcephaly#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Nystagmus, Pathologic#Oocytes#Patch-Clamp Techniques#Pedigree#Receptors, GABA-A#Syndrome#Xenopus laevis#Young Adult#gamma-Aminobutyric Acid'
b"Exaggerated basal ganglia beta activity (13-35 Hz) is commonly found in patients with Parkinson's disease and can be suppressed by dopaminergic medication, with the degree of suppression being correlated with the improvement in motor symptoms. Importantly, beta activity is not continuously elevated, but fluctuates to give beta bursts. The percentage number of longer beta bursts in a given interval is positively correlated with clinical impairment in Parkinson's disease patients. Here we determine whether the characteristics of beta bursts are dependent on dopaminergic state. Local field potentials were recorded from the subthalamic nucleus of eight Parkinson's disease patients during temporary lead externalization during surgery for deep brain stimulation. The recordings took place with the patient quietly seated following overnight withdrawal of levodopa and after administration of levodopa. Beta bursts were defined by applying a common amplitude threshold and burst characteristics were compared between the two drug conditions. The amplitude of beta bursts, indicative of the degree of local neural synchronization, progressively increased with burst duration. Treatment with levodopa limited this evolution leading to a relative increase of shorter, lower amplitude bursts. Synchronization, however, was not limited to local neural populations during bursts, but also, when such bursts were cotemporaneous across the hemispheres, was evidenced by bilateral phase synchronization. The probability of beta bursts and the proportion of cotemporaneous bursts were reduced by levodopa. The percentage number of longer beta bursts in a given interval was positively related to motor impairment, while the opposite was true for the percentage number of short duration beta bursts. Importantly, the decrease in burst duration was also correlated with the motor improvement. In conclusion, we demonstrate that long duration beta bursts are associated with an increase in local and interhemispheric synchronization. This may compromise information coding capacity and thereby motor processing. Dopaminergic activity limits this uncontrolled beta synchronization by terminating long duration beta bursts, with positive consequences on network state and motor symptoms. labels: #Aged#Basal Ganglia#Beta Rhythm#Deep Brain Stimulation#Dopamine Agents#Electroencephalography#Electroencephalography Phase Synchronization#Female#Humans#Levodopa#Male#Middle Aged#Parkinson Disease#Prosthesis Implantation#Subthalamic Nucleus"
b'Some sweeteners show a synergistic enhancement of perceived sweetness when they are tasted as binary mixtures. In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Behrens et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) find that a surprising explanation for this classic observation may lie in their reciprocal inhibition of bitter taste receptors. labels: #Cyclamates#Drug Synergism#Saccharin#Sweetening Agents#Taste Perception'
b"In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Telling et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) apply advanced X-ray microscopy techniques to reveal magnetite iron species in plaques from a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. The characterization of abnormal iron chemistry in the disease model highlights the potential for iron to combine with the \xce\xb2-amyloid peptide and accelerate the disease process. labels: #Alzheimer Disease#Iron#Molecular Imaging#Nanotechnology"
b'Streptomyces are the principle source of antibiotics in clinical use, but what the bacteria use these molecules for remains largely a mystery. In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Hoefler et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) demonstrate a direct link between biosynthesis of the polyketide linearmycins and extracellular membrane vesicles. labels: #Biological Products#Streptomyces'
b'In this issue of Cell Chemical Biology, Diaz et\xc2\xa0al. (2017) report a strategy to achieve temporal, spatial, and stoichiometric control over the protein kinase cAbl in living cells. They achieve this by splitting cAbl into two inactive fragments that form an active kinase upon small molecule addition, potentially providing a general way to probe the wiring of signal transduction networks. labels: #Biocatalysis#Enzyme Activation#HeLa Cells#Humans#Protein Engineering#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-abl#Signal Transduction#src-Family Kinases'
b'Mitochondrial antiviral signaling platform protein (MAVS) acts as a central hub for RIG-I receptor proximal signal propagation. However, key components in the assembly of the MAVS mitochondrial platform that promote RIG-I mitochondrial localization and optimal activation are still largely undefined. Employing pooled RNAi and yeast two-hybrid screenings, we report that the mitochondrial adaptor protein tripartite motif (TRIM)14 provides a docking platform for the assembly of the mitochondrial signaling complex required for maximal activation of RIG-I-mediated signaling, consisting of WHIP and protein phosphatase PPP6C. Following viral infection, the ubiquitin-binding domain in WHIP bridges RIG-I with MAVS by binding to polyUb chains of RIG-I at lysine 164. The ATPase domain in WHIP contributes to stabilization of the RIG-I-dsRNA interaction. Moreover, phosphatase PPP6C is responsible for RIG-I dephosphorylation. Together, our findings define the WHIP-TRIM14-PPP6C mitochondrial signalosome required for RIG-I-mediated innate antiviral immunity. labels: #ATPases Associated with Diverse Cellular Activities#Animals#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line, Tumor#Cercopithecus aethiops#DEAD Box Protein 58#DNA-Binding Proteins#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Multiprotein Complexes#Phosphoprotein Phosphatases#Signal Transduction#Vero Cells#Virus Diseases#Viruses'
b'The roles of CDK4 in the cell cycle have been extensively studied, but less is known about the mechanisms underlying the metabolic regulation by CDK4. Here, we report that CDK4 promotes anaerobic glycolysis and represses fatty acid oxidation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) by targeting the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). We also show that fatty acid oxidation (FAO) is specifically induced by AMPK complexes containing the \xce\xb12 subunit. Moreover, we report that CDK4 represses FAO through direct phosphorylation and inhibition of AMPK\xce\xb12. The expression of non-phosphorylatable AMPK\xce\xb12 mutants, or the use of a CDK4 inhibitor, increased FAO rates in MEFs and myotubes. In addition, Cdk4-/-mice have increased oxidative metabolism and exercise capacity. Inhibition of CDK4 mimicked these alterations in normal mice, but not when skeletal muscle was AMPK deficient. This novel mechanism explains how CDK4 promotes anabolism by blocking catabolic processes (FAO) that are activated by AMPK. labels: #AMP-Activated Protein Kinases#Animals#Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4#Embryo, Mammalian#Fatty Acids#Fibroblasts#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Mutation#Oxidation-Reduction#Physical Conditioning, Animal'
b'The proper location and timing of Dnmt1 activation are essential for DNA methylation maintenance. We demonstrate here that Dnmt1 utilizes two-mono-ubiquitylated histone H3 as a unique ubiquitin mark for its recruitment to and activation at DNA methylation sites. The crystal structure of the replication foci targeting sequence (RFTS) of Dnmt1 in complex with H3-K18Ub/23Ub reveals striking differences to the known ubiquitin-recognition structures. The two ubiquitins are simultaneously bound to the RFTS with a combination of canonical hydrophobic and atypical hydrophilic interactions. The C-lobe of RFTS, together with the K23Ub surface, also recognizes the N-terminal tail of H3. The binding of H3-K18Ub/23Ub results in spatial rearrangement of two lobes in the RFTS, suggesting the opening of its active site. Actually, incubation of Dnmt1 with H3-K18Ub/23Ub increases its catalytic activity in\xc2\xa0vitro. Our results therefore shed light on the essential role of a unique ubiquitin-binding module in DNA methylation maintenance. labels: #Animals#Crystallography, X-Ray#DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase 1#DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferases#DNA Methylation#Histones#Humans#Protein Binding#Protein Structure, Quaternary#Ubiquitin#Xenopus laevis'
b'To ensure the completion of DNA replication and maintenance of genome integrity, DNA repair factors protect stalled replication forks upon replication stress. Previous studies have identified a critical role for the tumor suppressors BRCA1 and BRCA2 in preventing the degradation of nascent DNA by the MRE11 nuclease after replication stress. Here we show that depletion of SMARCAL1, a SNF2-family DNA translocase that remodels stalled forks, restores replication fork stability and reduces the formation of replication stress-induced DNA breaks and chromosomal aberrations in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. In addition to SMARCAL1, other SNF2-family fork remodelers, including ZRANB3 and HLTF, cause nascent DNA degradation and genomic instability in BRCA1/2-deficient cells upon replication stress. Our observations indicate that nascent DNA degradation in BRCA1/2-deficient cells occurs as a consequence of MRE11-dependent nucleolytic processing of reversed forks generated by fork remodelers. These studies provide mechanistic insights into the processes that cause genome instability in BRCA1/2-deficient cells. labels: #BRCA2 Protein#Cell Line, Tumor#DNA Breaks#DNA Helicases#DNA-Binding Proteins#Genomic Instability#Humans#MRE11 Homologue Protein#Transcription Factors#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases'
b'RING and U-box E3 ubiquitin ligases regulate diverse eukaryotic processes and have been implicated in numerous diseases, but targeting these enzymes remains a major challenge. We report the development of three ubiquitin variants (UbVs), each binding selectively to the RING or U-box domain of a distinct E3 ligase: monomeric UBE4B, phosphorylated active CBL, or dimeric XIAP. Structural and biochemical analyses revealed that UbVs specifically inhibited the activity of UBE4B or phosphorylated CBL by blocking the E2\xe2\x88\xbcUb binding site. Surprisingly, the UbV selective for dimeric XIAP formed a dimer to stimulate E3 activity by stabilizing the closed E2\xe2\x88\xbcUb conformation. We further verified the inhibitory and stimulatory functions of UbVs in cells. Our work provides a general strategy to inhibit or activate RING/U-box E3 ligases and provides a resource for the research community to modulate these enzymes. labels: #Drug Discovery#Enzyme Activators#Enzyme Inhibitors#HEK293 Cells#HeLa Cells#Humans#Protein Multimerization#Tumor Suppressor Proteins#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligase Complexes#X-Linked Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein'
b'Chromosome conformation capture technologies have revealed important insights into genome folding. Yet, how spatial genome architecture is related to gene expression and cell fate remains unclear. We comprehensively mapped 3D chromatin organization during mouse neural differentiation in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo, generating the highest-resolution Hi-C maps available to date. We found that transcription is correlated with chromatin insulation and long-range interactions, but dCas9-mediated activation is insufficient for creating TAD boundaries de novo. Additionally, we discovered long-range contacts between gene bodies of exon-rich, active genes in all cell types. During neural differentiation, contacts between active TADs become less pronounced while inactive TADs interact more strongly. An extensive Polycomb network in stem cells is disrupted, while\xc2\xa0dynamic interactions between neural transcription factors appear in\xc2\xa0vivo. Finally, cell type-specific enhancer-promoter contacts are established concomitant to gene expression. This work shows that multiple factors influence the dynamics of chromatin interactions in development. labels: #Animals#CCCTC-Binding Factor#Chromatin#Embryonic Stem Cells#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Exons#Gene Expression#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genome#Mice#Neurogenesis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Repressor Proteins#Transcription Factors'
b'The mTORC1 kinase is a master growth regulator that senses many environmental cues, including amino acids. Activation of mTORC1 by arginine requires SLC38A9, a poorly understood lysosomal membrane protein with homology to amino acid transporters. Here, we validate that SLC38A9 is an arginine sensor for the mTORC1 pathway, and we uncover an unexpectedly central role for SLC38A9 in amino acid homeostasis. SLC38A9 mediates the transport, in an arginine-regulated fashion, of many essential amino acids out of lysosomes, including leucine, which mTORC1 senses through the cytosolic Sestrin proteins. SLC38A9 is necessary for leucine generated via lysosomal proteolysis to exit lysosomes and activate mTORC1. Pancreatic cancer cells, which use macropinocytosed protein as a nutrient source, require SLC38A9 to form tumors. Thus, through SLC38A9, arginine serves as a lysosomal messenger that couples mTORC1 activation to the release from lysosomes of the essential amino acids needed to drive cell growth. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Amino Acid Transport Systems#Amino Acids, Essential#Animals#Arginine#Cell Line#Cell Line, Tumor#Humans#Lysosomes#Male#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Multiprotein Complexes#Sequence Alignment#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases'
b'Ferroptosis is a form of programmed cell death that is pathogenic to several acute and chronic diseases and executed via oxygenation of polyunsaturated phosphatidylethanolamines (PE) by 15-lipoxygenases (15-LO) that normally use free polyunsaturated fatty acids as substrates. Mechanisms of the altered 15-LO substrate specificity are enigmatic. We sought a common ferroptosis regulator for 15LO. We discovered that PEBP1, a scaffold protein inhibitor of protein kinase cascades, complexes with two 15LO isoforms, 15LO1 and 15LO2, and changes their substrate competence to generate hydroperoxy-PE. Inadequate reduction of hydroperoxy-PE due to insufficiency or dysfunction of a selenoperoxidase, GPX4, leads to ferroptosis. We demonstrated the importance of PEBP1-dependent regulatory mechanisms of ferroptotic death in airway epithelial cells in asthma, kidney epithelial cells in renal failure, and cortical and hippocampal neurons in brain trauma. As master regulators of ferroptotic cell death with profound implications for human disease, PEBP1/15LO complexes represent a new target for drug discovery. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Animals#Apoptosis#Asthma#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Cell Death#Cell Line#Humans#Isoenzymes#Lipoxygenase#Mice#Models, Molecular#Oxazolidinones#Oxidation-Reduction#Phosphatidylethanolamine Binding Protein'
b'Angiopoietins signal through TIE receptors to control both developmental and homeostatic processes that can go awry in genetic diseases and cancer. This SnapShot illustrates key elements of angiopoietin signaling in normal and disease contexts. labels: #Angiopoietins#Endothelial Cells#Humans#Inflammation#Lymphangiogenesis#Neovascularization, Pathologic'
b'The gut microbiota contributes to the development of normal immunity but, when dysregulated, can promote autoimmunity through various non-antigen-specific effects on pathogenic and regulatory lymphocytes. Here, we show that an integrase expressed by several species of the gut microbial genus Bacteroides encodes a low-avidity mimotope of the pancreatic \xce\xb2 cell autoantigen islet-specific glucose-6-phosphatase-catalytic-subunit-related protein (IGRP206-214). Studies in germ-free mice monocolonized with integrase-competent, integrase-deficient, and integrase-transgenic Bacteroides demonstrate that the microbial epitope promotes the recruitment of diabetogenic CD8+ T\xc2\xa0cells to the gut. There, these effectors suppress colitis by targeting microbial antigen-loaded, antigen-presenting cells in an integrin \xce\xb27-, perforin-, and major\xc2\xa0histocompatibility complex class I-dependent manner. Like their murine counterparts, human peripheral blood T\xc2\xa0cells also recognize Bacteroides integrase. These data suggest that gut microbial antigen-specific cytotoxic T\xc2\xa0cells may have therapeutic value in inflammatory bowel disease and unearth molecular mimicry as a novel mechanism by which the gut microbiota can regulate normal immune homeostasis. PAPERCLIP. labels: #Adult#Animals#Autoantigens#Bacteroides#Colitis#Female#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Glucose-6-Phosphatase#Humans#Lymphoid Tissue#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred NOD#Middle Aged#Molecular Mimicry#T-Lymphocytes'
b'BACKGROUND: Robotic-assisted lobectomy (RL) is becoming a popular alternative technique to video-assisted thoracoscopic lobectomy (VL), although open lobectomy (OL) remains the most common approach. The objective of this study is to provide a comparative analysis of perioperative clinical outcomes from elective RL, VL, and OL.METHODS: The Premier Healthcare Database was analyzed for lobectomies performed from January 1, 2011, to September 30, 2015. International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification diagnosis and procedure codes were used to identify surgical approaches, complications, and mortality. Propensity score matching (1:1) for patient and hospital characteristics allowed comparison of RL versus OL (n\xc2\xa0= 2,775 each) and RL versus VL (n\xc2\xa0= 2,951 each).RESULTS: Compared with OL in propensity matched analysis, RL was associated with a lower postoperative complication rate (p<0.0001), shorter hospital stay (p<0.0001), and lower mortality rate (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0282). Patients in the RL group were more likely to be discharged home than to a transitional health care facility (p<0.0001). Compared with VL, the RL group had a lower conversion rate to thoracotomy (p<0.0001), lower overall postoperative complication rate (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0061), and shorter hospital stay (p\xc2\xa0= 0.006). The RL patients also were more likely to be discharged home than to a transitional health care facility (p\xc2\xa0= 0.0108). The postoperative mortality rates of RL and VL were similar (p\xc2\xa0= 0.44). There was no difference in iatrogenic injuries when comparing RL with OL and RL with VL (p\xc2\xa0= 0.1284 and p\xc2\xa0= 0.5477, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Robotic-assisted lobectomy was associated with improved outcomes for certain perioperative clinical variables, including shorter length of stay and lower complication rates. It was also was associated with a lower conversion rate to OL compared with VL. labels: #Aged#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonectomy#Postoperative Complications#Prognosis#Propensity Score#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Robotic Surgical Procedures#Survival Analysis#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Thoracotomy#Treatment Outcome#United States'
b"This reports presents a case of a 62-year-old woman with hemorrhagic hypovolemic shock, respiratory distress, and pericardial effusion secondary to right atrial perforation caused by a cement embolus after dorsal spondylodesis. Despite optimal intensive care support for a supposed pulmonary embolism, the patient's condition markedly deteriorated. On delayed embolus recognition by contrast-enhanced computed tomography and transesophageal echocardiography, she had to undergo cardiac surgery. Cardiac involvement is a rare but important complication, with few cases described after vertebroplasty and none after spondylodesis. In our case, diagnosis before perforation would have allowed an endovascular approach, thereby avoiding open heart surgery. labels: #Accidental Falls#Bone Cements#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Critical Illness#Echocardiography, Transesophageal#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Atria#Heart Injuries#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Middle Aged#Pericardial Effusion#Risk Assessment#Spinal Fractures#Spinal Fusion#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome"
b'Tracheobronchial injuries can be difficult to diagnose and\xc2\xa0manage, especially in the presence of polytrauma. A 50-year-old woman presented as a Level I trauma activation after being struck by a motor vehicle. Initial evaluation demonstrated intracranial hemorrhage and multiple chest injuries, including multilevel bilateral rib fractures, pneumomediastinum, and concern for tracheobronchial injury. After initial stabilization, bronchoscopy was performed and demonstrated an injury to the carina. We report a novel airway and ventilation strategy in the setting of concomitant tracheobronchial injury after severe blunt chest trauma in which extracorporeal support is contraindicated. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Bronchi#Bronchoscopy#Combined Modality Therapy#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Injury Severity Score#Middle Aged#Multiple Trauma#Positive-Pressure Respiration#Radiography, Thoracic#Risk Assessment#Thoracic Injuries#Trachea#Trauma Centers#Treatment Outcome#Wounds, Nonpenetrating'
b'Endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) is considered useful for the staging and diagnosis of lung cancer or thoracic lymph node enlargement; however, little is known about its complications. Between July 2009 and November 2016, 413 patients underwent EBUS-TBNA, and four complications (0.97%) occurred. Here we report four cases involving complications of EBUS-TBNA, including mediastinitis (n\xc2\xa0= 2), obstructive pneumonia (n\xc2\xa0= 1), and airway obstruction requiring admission to the intensive care unit (n\xc2\xa0= 1). All patients recovered with appropriate medical treatment. Despite their low incidence, the complications associated with EBUS-TBNA can be serious. labels: #Aged#Airway Obstruction#Cohort Studies#Endoscopic Ultrasound-Guided Fine Needle Aspiration#Endosonography#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Lymph Nodes#Male#Mediastinitis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Neoplasm Staging#Pneumonia, Bacterial#Prognosis#Radiography, Thoracic#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'Congenital lobar emphysema is a rare pulmonary malformation typically diagnosed during infancy and is characterized by bullous disease. A 28-year-old woman, who presented with 1 week of progressive dyspnea and chest pain, was found to have left hemithoracic lung hyperinflation with perfusion deficit upon radiographic evaluation. Bullous disease was found intraoperatively to originate from 1 lower lobe segment. Normal parenchymal lung expansion occurred following resection of the affected segment. Therefore, we present a rare case of congenital lobar emphysema resulting in near-complete occupancy of the left hemithorax and diagnosed in a previously asymptomatic adult without history of predisposing factors. labels: #Adult#Bronchoscopy#Chest Pain#Disease Progression#Dyspnea#Emergency Service, Hospital#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Pneumothorax#Positron-Emission Tomography#Pulmonary Emphysema#Radiography, Thoracic#Rare Diseases#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'The shortage of lungs for organ donation is problematic, and meeting the demand by expanding the donor pool in lung transplantation is critical. Donation after cardiac death (DCD) is an under-used approach that could be a valuable source of organs. However, procuring lungs from donors with a previous median sternotomy is technically difficult and is usually avoided. Here, we describe the procurement of lungs from a DCD patient with a previous median sternotomy. labels: #Death#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Graft Survival#Humans#Lung Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Radiography, Thoracic#Risk Assessment#Sternotomy#Tissue Donors#Tissue and Organ Procurement#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Transplant Recipients#Treatment Outcome'
b'Pneumococcal mycotic aneurysms are rare and associated with significant mortality and morbidity. Early intravenous antibiotic therapy and surgical intervention is the mainstay of treatment. Pneumococci frequently autolyze in blood cultures, making microbiological diagnosis challenging. We present the case of a man in his mid 70s with multiple thoracoabdominal mycotic aneurysms. Surgery was performed to a threatening saccular aortic arch aneurysm. Samples were sent for microbiological analysis and all were culture negative. The samples were then referred for bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA sequencing, which revealed evidence of infection with Streptococcus pneumoniae. labels: #Aged#Aneurysm, Infected#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic#Blood Vessel Prosthesis Implantation#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Pathology, Molecular#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#RNA, Bacterial#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Streptococcus pneumoniae#Thoracotomy#Treatment Outcome'
b'This report describes the case of undiagnosed posttraumatic coronary artery dissection in a young multiorgan donor. Ex\xc2\xa0vivo preservation with the Organ Care System (TransMedics, Inc, Andover, MA) revealed the presence of coronary disease and avoided transplantation of an organ at high risk for failure. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Aneurysm, Dissecting#Cold Ischemia#Coronary Aneurysm#Diagnostic Errors#Female#Graft Rejection#Heart Transplantation#Humans#In Vitro Techniques#Multiple Trauma#Organ Preservation#Tissue Donors'
b'Cor triatriatum sinister is a rare congenital lesion encountered in children. It consists of a fibromuscular membrane that separates the left atrium into two chambers resulting in a triatrial heart and often occurs with other structural cardiac anomalies. The acquired form is uncommon and has only been reported after orthotopic heart transplantation or as a complication of infective endocarditis in adults. These cases were mostly because of hypertrophied atrial tissue or suture lines and torsion of the atrium. We describe the first case of acquired cor triatriatum late after the Fontan procedure with successful surgical resection in a child. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Cardiac Catheterization#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Child#Cor Triatriatum#Double Outlet Right Ventricle#Echocardiography, Doppler, Color#Echocardiography, Transesophageal#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fontan Procedure#Heart Defects, Congenital#Humans#Monitoring, Physiologic#Reoperation#Treatment Outcome'
b'We herein report two cases of progressive left ventricular outflow obstruction after primary repair of arch obstruction and ventricular septal defect that was successfully resolved with Yasui conversion. Patients who require surgical reintervention for progressive left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction after primary biventricular repair of interruption of the aortic arch or coarctation of the aorta complex are occasionally experienced. The modified Konno procedure and Ross operation are well recognized as useful for these cases. However, in some patients, these procedures are difficult to perform because of anatomic restrictions or previous procedures. Although the indications are limited, the Yasui conversion is a safe, simple, and useful option for LVOT obstruction after primary biventricular repair. labels: #Anastomosis, Surgical#Aortic Coarctation#Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Cardiopulmonary Bypass#Cardiovascular Abnormalities#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Septal Defects, Ventricular#Humans#Reoperation#Risk Assessment#Sampling Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Surgical Procedures#Ventricular Outflow Obstruction'
b'The double-switch operation for congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries, in which the morphologic left ventricle is restored to the systemic circulation, is an effective surgical option. This case report describes an atrial switch technique without using supplemental material during the double-switch operation for congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries associated with persistent left superior vena cava, with the systemic venous blood flow rerouted through the enlarged coronary sinus. labels: #Abnormalities, Multiple#Arterial Switch Operation#Cardiac Catheterization#Combined Modality Therapy#Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Sinus#Follow-Up Studies#Heart Defects, Congenital#Heart Septal Defects, Atrial#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Infant#Male#Rare Diseases#Risk Assessment#Transposition of Great Vessels#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Surgical Procedures#Vena Cava, Superior'
b'Thoracoscopic S9-10 segmentectomy is more difficult than other segmentectomies because of the complexity of the peripheral pulmonary anatomies and the difficulty of dividing the intersegmental plane. In S9-10 segmentectomy, the intersegmental plane between segments S6 and S8 near the major fissure impedes division of the plane between segments S6 and S9-10, or S8 and S9-10. Dividing the intersegmental plane between segments S6 and S8 with stapling is difficult, because peripheral pulmonary anatomies are not exposed clearly. Herein, we describe the technique of stapler-based thoracoscopic S9-10 segmentectomy under indocyanine green fluorescence navigation. labels: #Aged#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures#Pneumonectomy#Recovery of Function#Solitary Pulmonary Nodule#Surgical Staplers#Thoracoscopy#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome'
b'The technical details and anatomic features of medial-basal segment (S7) segmentectomy have not been reported. We report here thoracoscopic S7segmentectomy and S7a subsegmentectomy and explain the anatomic knowledge necessary to perform S7segmentectomy, especially the importance of recognizing bronchus (B7) branching patterns before surgery. labels: #Adult#Aged#Bronchography#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Multidetector Computed Tomography#Multimodal Imaging#Operative Time#Pneumonectomy#Retrospective Studies#Sampling Studies#Thoracoscopy#Treatment Outcome'
b'To date, anatomic subsuperior segment (S\xe2\x88\x97) segmentectomy has not yet been reported. Herein we report the technical details of thoracoscopic anatomic S\xe2\x88\x97 segmentectomy and the anatomic features of the S\xe2\x88\x97. labels: #Bronchography#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Lung#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Monitoring, Intraoperative#Multidetector Computed Tomography#Multimodal Imaging#Patient Positioning#Pneumonectomy#Risk Assessment#Sampling Studies#Thoracoscopy#Treatment Outcome'
b'We successfully performed a pulmonary vein widening plasty in a patient with pulmonary vein stenosis and occlusion after multiple catheter ablations for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. labels: #Atrial Fibrillation#Catheter Ablation#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Veins#Risk Assessment#Severity of Illness Index#Stenosis, Pulmonary Vein#Thoracic Surgery, Video-Assisted#Treatment Outcome#Vascular Patency#Vascular Surgical Procedures'
b'Bacopa monnieri (BM) is used in traditional medicine as nerve tonic. We have recently shown that CDRI-08, a standardized extract of BM, improves testicular functions and epididymal sperm quality in Parkes (P) mice. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of CDRI-08 on germ cell dynamics and mechanisms of its action on spermatogenesis and sperm quality in P mice, and to determine the chemical profile of the extract. CDRI-08 (40 and 80\xc2\xa0mg/kg body weight) was orally administered to male mice for 28 days. Germ cell dynamics, oxidative stress parameters in testis and sperm, and expressions of nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor-2 (Nrf2), phosphorylated protein kinase B (p-Akt) and upstream kinases in mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway namely MAP2K1, MAP2K2 and MKK4 in the testis were evaluated. The treatment potentiated germ cell dynamics and improved sperm quality by enhancing antioxidant enzymes activities. The beneficial effects of CDRI-08 in the testis involve p-Akt-mediated activation of Nrf2, thereby enhancing antioxidant enzymes activities; upregulation of MAP2K1 and MAP2K2 and suppression of MKK4 are also implicated in this action. A total of 26 phytocomponents were identified in CDRI-08 by GC-MS. The results suggest that CDRI-08 also may prove useful in improving reproductive health in males. labels: #Animals#Antioxidants#Bacopa#India#Lipid Peroxidation#Male#Mice#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Plant Extracts#Plants, Medicinal#RNA, Messenger#Spermatogenesis#Spermatozoa'
b'Retroviral integrase catalyzes the integration of retroviral genome into host chromosomal DNA, which is a prerequisite of effective viral replication and infection. The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) integrase has previously been reported to be regulated by the ubiquitination, but the molecular characterization of integrase ubiquitination is still unclear. In this study, we analyzed the ubiquitination of avian leukosis virus (ALV) integrase in detail. The ubiquitination assay showed that, like HIV-1, ALV integrase could also be modified by ubiquitination when expressed in 293\xc2\xa0T and DF-1\xc2\xa0cells. Domain mapping analysis revealed that the ubiquitination of ALV integrase might mainly occurred in the catalytic core and the N-terminal zinc-binding domains. Both lysine and non-lysine residues within integrase of ALV and HIV-1 were responsible for the ubiquitin conjugation, and the N-terminal HHCC zinc-binding motif might play an important role in mediating integrase ubiquitination. Interestingly, mass spectrometry analysis identified the Thr10 and Cys37 residues in the HHCC zinc-binding motif as the ubiquitination sites, indicating that ubiquitin may be conjugated to ALV integrase through direct interaction with the non-lysine residues. These findings revealed the detailed features of retroviral integrase ubiquitination and found a novel mechanism of ubiquitination mediated by the non-lysine residues within the N-terminal zinc-binding domain of integrase. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Avian Leukosis Virus#Cell Line#Chickens#HEK293 Cells#HIV Integrase#HIV-1#Humans#Integrases#Lysine#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Retroviridae#Retroviridae Proteins#Ubiquitination#Zinc'
b'The acetylation of p53 is critical in modulating its pro-apoptotic roles. However, its regulatory mechanism and physiological significance are unclear. Here, we show HDAC6 negatively regulates pro-apoptotic acetylation of p53\xc2\xa0at lysine residue 120 (K120) in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). The loss of HDAC6 expression in MSCs increases K120 acetylation of p53, which is successfully reversed by the wild-type but not by catalytically dead HDAC6. Deletion of HDAC6 induces caspase-dependent apoptosis by promoting transactivation of Bax and suppression of Bcl-2. Moreover, HDAC6 deficiency leads to mitochondrial dysfunction characterized by aberrant reactive oxygen species production and defective oxidative phosphorylation, which is reversed by ectopic expression of wild-type or acetylation mimetic p53. This study demonstrates that HDAC6 is a critical regulator of a pro-apoptotic p53 K120 acetylation and mitochondrial function in MSCs, suggesting that the modulation of HDAC6 activity could be a novel approach to improve MSC- based therapies. labels: #Acetylation#Animals#Apoptosis#Histone Deacetylase 6#Histone Deacetylases#Lysine#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mitochondria#Reactive Oxygen Species#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'The hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated 2 (HCN2) channel is a major subtype of the HCN channel family expressed in the nervous system that sets the membrane potential, regulates cell excitability and senses changes in the extracellular environment. Neurons express various G\xce\xb1s-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), many of which show ligand-independent constitutive activity. These membrane-bound proteins are expressed in various subcellular compartments of neurons. Therefore, some proportion of HCN2 channels opens in response to the basal cAMP pool size produced by constitutively active GPCRs. Here, we employed an exogenous HEK293 expression system and voltage-clamp patch-clamp recordings to investigate basal HCN2 channel activity in the presence of two GPCRs with diverse basal activities in a single compartment. We utilized the \xce\xb22-adrenoceptor (\xce\xb22AR) together with odorant receptors (ORs), as both GPCR families are known to show strong basal activity. Consequently, \xce\xb22AR alone strongly enhanced the activity of HCN2 channels, and co-expression of ORs further diversified the HCN2 channel activity, which was totally abolished by an adenylate cyclase inhibitor. Thus, we conclude that the dual expression of constitutively active GPCRs establishes the diverse range of the basal cAMP pool size in resting cells through mutual additive or suppressive interactions, even in the absence of external stimulation. labels: #Cyclic AMP#GTP-Binding Protein alpha Subunits, Gs#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Hyperpolarization-Activated Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channels#Ion Channel Gating#Patch-Clamp Techniques#Potassium Channels#Receptors, Adrenergic, beta-2#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Receptors, Odorant#Recombinant Proteins'
b'The encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) 3C protease (3Cpro) is one of a small number of viral proteins whose concentration is known to be regulated by the cellular ubiquitin-proteasome system. Here we report that the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UbcH7/UBE2L3 and the ubiquitin-protein ligase E6AP/UBE3A are components of a previously unknown EMCV 3Cpro-polyubiquitylating pathway. Following the identification of UbcH7/UBE2L3 as a participant in 3Cproubiquitylation, we purified a UbcH7-dependent 3Cpro-ubiquitylating activity from mouse cells, which we identified as E6AP. In\xc2\xa0vitro reconstitution assays demonstrated that E6AP catalyzes the synthesis of 3Cpro-attached Lys48-linked ubiquitin chains, known to be recognized by the 26S proteasome. We found that the 3Cproaccumulates to higher levels in EMCV-infected E6AP knockdown cells than in control cells, indicating a role for E6AP in in\xc2\xa0vivo 3Cproconcentration regulation. We also discovered that ARIH1 functions with UbcH7 to catalyze EMCV 3Cpromonoubiquitylation, but this activity does not influence the in\xc2\xa0vivo 3Cproconcentration. labels: #Animals#Cysteine Endopeptidases#Encephalomyocarditis virus#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Mice#NIH 3T3 Cells#Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex#Recombinant Proteins#Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzymes#Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases#Ubiquitination#Viral Proteins'
b'Many critical metabolic functions in the brain require adequate and timely delivery of iron. However, most studies when considering brain iron uptake have ignored the iron requirements of the endothelial cells that form the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Moreover, current models of BBB iron transport do not address regional regulation of brain iron uptake or how neurons, when adapting to metabolic demands, can acquire more iron. In this study, we demonstrate that both iron-poor transferrin (apo-Tf) and the iron chelator, deferoxamine, stimulate release of iron from iron-loaded endothelial cells in an in\xc2\xa0vitro BBB model. The role of the endosomal divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) in BBB iron acquisition and transport has been questioned. Here, we show that inhibition of DMT1 alters the transport of iron and Tf across the endothelial cells. These data support an endosome-mediated model of Tf-bound iron uptake into the brain and identifies mechanisms for local regional regulation of brain iron uptake. Moreover, our data provide an explanation for the disparity in the ratio of Tf to iron transport into the brain that has confounded the field. labels: #Animals#Biological Transport, Active#Blood-Brain Barrier#Brain#Cation Transport Proteins#Cattle#Cells, Cultured#Endosomes#Endothelial Cells#Hepcidins#Iron#Microvessels#Models, Neurological#Transferrin'
b"Mitochondrial (mt) DNA-associated NARP (neurogenic muscle weakness, ataxia, and retinitis pigmentosa) syndrome is due to mutation in the MT-ATP6 gene. We report the case of a 18-year-old man who presented with deafness, a myoclonic epilepsy, muscle weakness since the age of 10 and further developed a retinitis pigmentosa and ataxia. The whole mtDNA analysis by next-generation sequencing revealed the presence of the 2 bp microdeletion m.9127-9128 del AT in the ATP6 gene at 82% heteroplasmy in muscle and to a lower load in blood (10-20%) and fibroblasts (50%). Using the patient's fibroblasts, we demonstrated a 60% reduction of the oligomycin-sensitive ATPase hydrolytic activity, a 40% decrease in the ATP synthesis and determination of the mitochondrial membrane potential using the fluorescent probe tetramethylrhodamine, ethyl ester indicated a significant reduction in oligomycin sensitivity. In conclusion, we demonstrated that this novel AT deletion in the ATP6 gene is pathogenic and responsible for the NARP syndrome. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Adenosine Triphosphate#Base Sequence#Carrier Proteins#Cells, Cultured#DNA Mutational Analysis#DNA, Mitochondrial#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Male#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Membrane Proteins#Mitochondrial Myopathies#Mitochondrial Proton-Translocating ATPases#Oligomycins#Retinitis Pigmentosa#Sequence Deletion#Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'OBJECTIVES: The current study is a 1-year follow-up analysis of data from a randomized controlled trial of Enhanced Milieu Teaching (EMT) for toddlers with language delays. Outcomes and predictors of child language and parent intervention implementation were examined 6 and 12 months after the end of the intervention.METHODS: Toddlers with language delays were recruited from the community, and 97 toddlers and parents were randomly assigned to receive usual community treatments or a 3-month EMT intervention with parent training. Multiple regression analyses were used to estimate the differences between groups at the 6- and 12-month follow-up periods. A subgroup of participants with receptive and expressive language delays was used in a post hoc moderator analysis of treatment outcomes.RESULTS: Children in the treatment arm did not differ from children in the control arm at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. However, post hoc analyses revealed that children with receptive-expressive language delays were persistently delayed relative to normative performance throughout the follow-up period.CONCLUSIONS: The immediate effects of the brief delivery of EMT were not sustained over the 1-year follow-up period. However, the short-term intervention may not have been sufficient for children with receptive-expressive delays to develop typical language abilities, suggesting they may need more intensive early intervention. Although this intervention may not be necessary for all children with primary language delays, future research should determine the extent to which children with receptive-expressive delays may benefit from more intensive intervention. labels: #Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Language Development Disorders#Language Therapy#Male#Treatment Outcome'
b'Through coordinated and reciprocal interactions between the epithelium and mesenchyme, diverse integumentary organs form and undergo cyclic renewal. The hair follicle has become the main model to understand this extraordinary regenerative behavior. At the core is the dermal papilla, the organizing center, and the epithelial stem cells that respond to dermal papilla signaling. Two recent papers by Telerman et\xc2\xa0al. and Yang et\xc2\xa0al. unravel new molecular landscapes within the dermal papilla. labels: #Cells, Cultured#Dermis#Epithelium#Germ Cells#Hair#Hair Follicle#Humans#Mesoderm#Regeneration#Sensitivity and Specificity#Signal Transduction#Wnt Signaling Pathway'
b'Using a novel mouse model of scleroderma induced by immunization with topoisomerase-I peptide-loaded dendritic cells, Mehta et\xc2\xa0al. found that early-life antibiotic exposure resulted in increased later-life fibrosis in the skin and lungs. These observations advance the novel concept that gut microbiome alterations caused by early-life exposures may contribute to scleroderma pathogenesis, and warrant in-depth characterization and validation in complementary disease models. labels: #Age Factors#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Autoimmune Diseases#Disease Models, Animal#Disease Progression#Dysbiosis#Fibrosis#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Mice#Pulmonary Fibrosis#Scleroderma, Localized#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Pemphigus vulgaris is an autoimmune blistering disease caused by anti-desmoglein 3 IgG autoantibodies. It is accepted that interactions between autoreactive B and T cells are key to humoral autoimmunity targeting desmoglein 3. This orchestrated process usually occurs in secondary lymphoid organs, including the spleen and lymph nodes. Thus, it seems likely that autoreactive B cells reside and produce autoantibodies in these tissues. Yuan et\xc2\xa0al. analyzed lymphocytes in the lesional skin of patients with pemphigus vulgaris using several experimental techniques and concluded that desmoglein 3-reactive B cells were present. This finding expands our understanding of the pathogenesis of pemphigus and should be considered when following the clinical course of skin lesions and thinking about adjunctive therapy. labels: #Autoantibodies#Autoimmunity#B-Lymphocytes#Biomarkers#Biopsy, Needle#Cell Communication#Desmoglein 3#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Immunohistochemistry#Interleukin-17#Interleukins#Male#Pemphigus#Risk Assessment#Sensitivity and Specificity#T-Lymphocytes'
b'Deletion of late cornified envelope (LCE) genes LCE3B and LCE3C (LCE3B/C-del) is a psoriasis risk factor linked to the major psoriasis risk gene HLA-C*06. Niehues et\xc2\xa0al. demonstrate that LCE3B/C-del leads to increased keratinocyte LCE3A expression. They also show that LCE3A/B/C possess antimicrobial activity but do not obviously regulate epidermal barrier integrity. These findings implicate LCE proteins in psoriasis pathogenesis via a new functional role. labels: #Anti-Infective Agents#Case-Control Studies#Cornified Envelope Proline-Rich Proteins#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Psoriasis#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Classical biochemical techniques have contributed a great deal to our understanding of the mechanisms regulating fundamental biological processes. However, these approaches are typically end-point, population-based assays and are often insufficient in examining transient molecular events. F\xc3\xb6rster resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy is a powerful technique capable of investigating dynamic interactions between proteins and a plethora of biochemical signaling events based on the development of specific biosensors. This technique exploits the principle that when FRET occurs, energy from a donor fluorophore is transferred to an acceptor fluorophore only when certain conditions are met. These include dependence on both distance and fluorophore orientation. In this article, applications of FRET microscopy to protein interactions and modifications are discussed, and examples are given of the types of biosensors that can be developed. There are a number of methods to measure FRET. The most common modalities and specific advantages and shortcomings for each are reviewed. Finally, general considerations and guidelines for choosing a method are discussed. labels: #Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer#Humans#Microscopy#Proteins#Research Design#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'Traditionally, personalised nutrition was delivered at an individual level. However, the concept of delivering tailored dietary advice at a group level through the identification of metabotypes or groups of metabolically similar individuals has emerged. Although this approach to personalised nutrition looks promising, further work is needed to examine this concept across a wider population group. Therefore, the objectives of this study are to: (1) identify metabotypes in a European population and (2) develop targeted dietary advice solutions for these metabotypes. Using data from the Food4Me study (n 1607), k-means cluster analysis revealed the presence of three metabolically distinct clusters based on twenty-seven metabolic markers including cholesterol, individual fatty acids and carotenoids. Cluster 2 was identified as a metabolically healthy metabotype as these individuals had the highest Omega-3 Index (6\xc2\xb756 (sd 1\xc2\xb729) %), carotenoids (2\xc2\xb715 (sd 0\xc2\xb771) \xc2\xb5m) and lowest total saturated fat levels. On the basis of its fatty acid profile, cluster 1 was characterised as a metabolically unhealthy cluster. Targeted dietary advice solutions were developed per cluster using a decision tree approach. Testing of the approach was performed by comparison with the personalised dietary advice, delivered by nutritionists to Food4Me study participants (n 180). Excellent agreement was observed between the targeted and individualised approaches with an average match of 82 % at the level of delivery of the same dietary message. Future work should ascertain whether this proposed method could be utilised in a healthcare setting, for the rapid and efficient delivery of tailored dietary advice solutions. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Carotenoids#Cholesterol#Cluster Analysis#European Continental Ancestry Group#Fatty Acids, Omega-3#Female#Health Education#Healthy Diet#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Metabolome#Middle Aged#Nutrition Policy#Nutritional Status#Precision Medicine#Young Adult'
b'A maternal high-fat, high-sucrose (HFS) diet alters offspring glucose and lipid homoeostasis through unknown mechanisms and may be modulated by folic acid. We investigated the effect of a maternal HFS diet on glucose homoeostasis, expression of genes and proteins associated with insulin signalling and lipid metabolism and the effect of prenatal folic acid supplementation (HFS/F) in male rat offspring. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly fed control (CON), HFS or HFS/F diets. Offspring were weaned on CON; at postnatal day 70, fasting plasma insulin and glucose and liver and skeletal muscle gene and protein expression were measured. Treatment effects were assessed by one-way ANOVA. Maternal HFS diet induced higher fasting glucose in offspring v. HFS/F (P=0\xc2\xb7027) and down-regulation (P<0\xc2\xb705) of genes coding for v-Akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 2, resistin and v-Raf-1 murine leukaemia viral oncogene homolog 1 (Raf1) in offspring skeletal muscle and acetyl-CoA carboxylase (Acaca), fatty acid synthase and phosphatidylinositol-4,5-biphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit \xce\xb2 in offspring liver. Skeletal muscle neuropeptide Y and hepatic Kruppel-like factor 10 were up-regulated in HFS v. CON offspring (P<0\xc2\xb705). Compared with CON, Acaca and Raf1 protein expression levels were significantly lower in HFS offspring. Maternal HFS induced higher homoeostasis model of assessment index of insulin resistance v. CON (P=0\xc2\xb7030) and HFS/F was associated with higher insulin (P=0\xc2\xb7016) and lower glucose (P=0\xc2\xb7025). Maternal HFS diet alters offspring insulin sensitivity and de novo hepatic lipogenesis via altered gene and protein expression, which appears to be potentiated by folate supplementation. labels: #Acetyl-CoA Carboxylase#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Blood Glucose#Diet, High-Fat#Down-Regulation#Fatty Acid Synthases#Female#Folic Acid#Insulin#Insulin Resistance#Lipid Metabolism#Liver#Male#Maternal Nutritional Physiological Phenomena#Phosphotransferases (Alcohol Group Acceptor)#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-raf#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Resistin#Up-Regulation'
b'Colonic effects of extruded whole-grain sorghum diets were evaluated using a model of growing rats. In all, twenty-four male Wistar rats were fed control (C), extruded white sorghum (EWS) or red sorghum (ERS). Consumption of sorghum diets showed satiety properties, with reduction of caecal pH, and lower activity of \xce\xb2-glucosidase and \xce\xb2-glucuronidase enzymes. Decreased copper zinc superoxide dismutase and manganese superoxide dismutase and increased catalase and glutathione peroxidase levels were observed in colonic mucosa. The induction of antioxidant enzymes occurred through the activation of the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 protein and its subsequent translocation into the nucleus. ERS was able to decrease the proliferation of proximal mucosa of colon, demonstrating a possible effect against colorectal tumourigenesis. EWS increased proliferation and also apoptosis, ensuring the re-establishment of homoeostasis of the colonic mucosa. No antioxidant systemic effect (serum or hepatic level) was observed. It is likely that despite the extrusion the low bioavailability of the phenolic compounds of sorghum diets caused them to exert mainly acute effects at the colon level. Extruded whole-grain sorghum is a good functional ingredient that might be promising in dietary prevention of intestinal diseases. labels: #Animals#Catalase#Colon#Diet#Disease Models, Animal#Glucuronidase#Glutathione Peroxidase#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Intestinal Diseases#Intestinal Mucosa#Male#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Satiation#Sorghum#Superoxide Dismutase#Whole Grains#beta-Glucosidase'
b'BACKGROUND: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have yielded variants at>30 loci that associate with atrial\xc2\xa0fibrillation (AF), including rare coding mutations in the sarcomere genes MYH6 and MYL4.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to search for novel AF associations and in doing so gain insights into the mechanisms whereby variants affect AF risk, using electrocardiogram (ECG) measurements.METHODS: The authors performed a GWAS of 14,255 AF cases and 374,939 controls, using whole-genome sequence data from the Icelandic population, and tested novel signals in 2,002 non-Icelandic cases and 12,324 controls. They then tested the AF variants for effect on cardiac electrical function by using measurements in 289,297 ECGs from 62,974 individuals.RESULTS: The authors discovered 2 novel AF variants, the intergenic variant rs72700114, between the genes LINC01142 and METTL11B (risk allele frequency\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.1%; odds ratio [OR]: 1.26; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa03.1\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-18), and the missense variant p.Gly4098Ser in PLEC (frequency\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.2%; OR: 1.55; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa08.0\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 10-10), encoding plectin, a cytoskeletal cross-linking protein that contributes to integrity of cardiac tissue. The authors also confirmed 29 reported variants. p.Gly4098Ser in PLEC significantly affects various ECG measurements in the absence of AF. Other AF variants have diverse effects on the\xc2\xa0conduction system, ranging from none to extensive.CONCLUSIONS: The discovery of a missense variant in PLEC affecting AF combined with recent discoveries of variants in\xc2\xa0the sarcomere genes MYH6 and MYL4 points to an important role of myocardial structure in the pathogenesis of the\xc2\xa0disease. The diverse associations between AF variants and ECG measurements suggest fundamentally different\xc2\xa0categories of mechanisms contributing to the development of AF. labels: #Atrial Fibrillation#Electrocardiography#Genome-Wide Association Study#Genomic Structural Variation#Humans#Mutation, Missense#Myosin Light Chains#Plectin#Risk#Sarcomeres'
b'Heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein F (hnRNP F) controls the expression of various genes through regulating the alternative splicing of pre-mRNAs in the nucleus. It uses three quasi-RNA recognition motifs (qRRMs) to recognize G-tract RNA which contains at least three consecutive guanines. The structures containing qRRMs of hnRNP F in complex with G-tract RNA have been determined by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, shedding light on the recognition mechanism of qRRMs with G-tract RNA. However, knowledge of the recognition details is still lacking. To investigate how qRRMs specifically bind with G-tract RNA and how the mutations of any guanine to an adenine in the G-tract affect the binding, molecular dynamics simulations with binding free energy analysis were performed based on the NMR structure of qRRM2 in complex with G-tract RNA. Simulation results demonstrate that qRRM2 binds strongly with G-tract RNA, but any mutation of the G-tract leads to a drastic reduction of the binding free energy. Further comparisons of the energetic components reveal that van der Waals and non-polar interactions play essential roles in the binding between qRRM2 and G-tract RNA, but the interactions are weakened by the effect of RNA mutations. Structural and dynamical analyses indicate that when qRRM2 binds with G-tract RNA, both qRRM2 and G-tract maintain stabilized structures and dynamics; however, the stability is disrupted by the mutations of the G-tract. These results provide novel insights into the recognition mechanism of qRRM2 with G-tract RNA that are not elucidated by the NMR technique. labels: #Base Sequence#Binding Sites#Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group F-H#Humans#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Mutation#Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular#Nucleic Acid Conformation#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation#Protein Stability#RNA#RNA Recognition Motif#RNA-Binding Motifs'
b'Forkhead box k1 (FOXK1) is a member of the FOX class of transcription factors and it is dysregulated in many solid tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, colorectal cancer and prostate cancer. However, the expression status of FOXK1 and its clinical significance in esophageal cancer (EC) is still uncertain. Our study aimed at investigating the significance of FOXK1 expression in human EC and its biological function in the development of EC. We found that FOXK1 was overexpressed in EC tissues compared with corresponding non-tumor tissues using immunohistochemistry. And high FOXK1 expression was related to poor differentiation of EC. The Kaplan-Meier curve indicated that high FOXK1 expression may result in poor prognosis of EC patients. Furthermore, overexpression of FOXK1 in EC9706\xc2\xa0cell inhibited cell apoptosis and promoted cell proliferation and migration, and suppression of FOXK1 in EC109\xc2\xa0cell obtained reverse results. Our data suggest that FOXK1 plays an oncogenic role in EC pathogenesis and can serve as a therapeutic target for patients with EC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Esophageal Neoplasms#Female#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Oncogene Proteins#Prognosis#RNA, Small Interfering'
b'TGF-\xce\xb2 type III receptor (T\xce\xb2RIII) is a co-receptor for TGF\xce\xb2 family members required for high-affinity binding of these ligands to their receptors, potentiating their cellular functions. TGF-\xce\xb2s, Bone Morphogenetic Proteins (BMP2/4) and Inhibins/Activins regulate different checkpoints during T cell differentiation. We have previously reported that T\xce\xb2RIII modulates T cell development by protecting developing thymocytes from apoptosis, however the role of this co-receptor in peripheral lymphocytes still remains elusive. Here we describe a detailed characterization of T\xce\xb2RIII expression in murine and human lymphocyte subpopulations demonstrating that this co-receptor is significantly expressed in T but not B lymphocytes and among them, preferentially expressed on na\xc3\xafve and central memory T cells. T\xce\xb2RIII was upregulated after TCR stimulation, in parallel to other early activation markers. In contrast, natural and induced Tregs downregulated T\xce\xb2RIII in association with FoxP3 upregulation. Finally, anti-T\xce\xb2RIII blocking experiments demonstrated that T\xce\xb2RIII promotes TGF\xce\xb2-dependent iTreg conversion in\xc2\xa0vitro, and suggest that this co-receptor may be involved in modulating peripheral T cell tolerance and could be considered as a potential target to boost T cell immune responses. labels: #Animals#Down-Regulation#Forkhead Transcription Factors#Humans#Immunologic Memory#In Vitro Techniques#Lymphocyte Activation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Proteoglycans#Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell#Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta#Signal Transduction#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Up-Regulation'
b'Dysregulated potassium (K+) channels have previously been shown to promote the development and progression of many types of cancers. Meanwhile, K+channels are particularly important in regulating the endocrine and exocrine functions of pancreas. However, the expression pattern and prognostic significance of K+channels in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remain unknown. In this study, by screening a GEO dataset containing 36 microdissected PDAC and matching normal pancreatic tissue samples, four differentially expressed K+channels (KCNJ5, KCNJ16, KCNN4 and KCNK1) were identified in PDAC. by immunohistochemical analysis of pancreatic tissue sections from Pdx1-Cre; LSL-KrasG12D/+mice (KC), Pdx1-Cre; LSL-KrasG12D/+; LSL-Trp53R172H/+mice (KPC) and human PDAC tissue microarrays, we found that Ca2+-activated K+channel KCNN4 was significantly elevated in pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN) and PDAC epithelia compared with untransformed pancreas tissues. Higher epithelial KCNN4 expression was closely correlated with advanced TNM stages and predicted a poor prognosis in patients with PDAC. Elevated KCNN4 expression was significantly associated with shorter survival in univariable and multivariable analyses. Collectively, the identification of expression pattern of K+channels in PDAC and its precursor PanIN demonstrates the importance of KCNN4 channel during the malignant transformation of PDAC. On the basis of the prognostic signals from two independent cohorts, KCNN4 should be considered as a promising therapeutic target. labels: #Aged#Animals#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma in Situ#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Intermediate-Conductance Calcium-Activated Potassium Channels#Male#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Middle Aged#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Potassium Channels, Tandem Pore Domain#Prognosis'
b'Insulin resistance is a major defect underlying type 2 diabetes development. Skeletal muscle tissue and adipocyte tissue are the major sites of postprandial glucose disposal, and enhancing glucose uptake into this tissue may decrease insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes patients. Mahanine (3,11-dihydro-3,5-dimethyl-3-(4-methyl-3-pentenyl)pyrano[3,2-a]carbazol-9-ol) has been reported to be a major bioactive carbazole alkaloid that has many biological activities including antitumor, anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anti-diabetic activities. However, the molecular mechanism and signaling pathways mediating the anti-diabetic effects of mahanine require further investigation. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of mahanine, a carbazole alkaloid from Murraya koenigii, on glucose uptake and glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) translocation in skeletal muscle and adipocyte cells. Mahanine treatment promoted a dose dependent increased in glucose uptake in L6 myotubes and adipocyte cells via activation of the Akt signaling pathway. Mahanine induced Akt-activation was reversed by co-treatment with wortmannin, an Akt inhibitor. Moreover, it was found that mahanine significantly enhanced GLUT4 translocation to the plasma membrane in L6 myotubes. These results suggest that increased activation of the Akt signaling pathway lead to increased plasma membrane GLUT4 content and increased glucose uptake. These data strongly suggest that mahanine has anti-diabetic potential for treating diabetes. labels: #3T3-L1 Cells#AMP-Activated Protein Kinases#Adipocytes#Animals#Biological Transport, Active#Carbazoles#Cell Line#Cell Membrane#Cell Survival#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Glucose#Glucose Transporter Type 4#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin Resistance#Mice#Muscle Fibers, Skeletal#Muscle, Skeletal#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Signal Transduction'
b'BACKGROUND: Bisphenol A (BPA) is one of the most widely used chemicals, often used in epoxy resins, health products and colors. This study aims to investigate the effect of various doses of BPA on hepatotoxicity in rats.METHOD: This experimental study was conducted using 20 male adult Wistar rats older than 2 months weighing 150-200\xc2\xa0g. (5, 25 and 125\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/kg) BPA was administered by gavage for 35 consecutive days. The animals were weighed at the beginning and the end of the experiment. The level of aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase were determined using colorimetric method. The liver tissue was kept in the freezer at\xc2\xa0-80\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb0C for histological studies.FINDING: The body weight of rats receiving BPA decreased significantly compared to control group and this weight loss was more evident at doses of 25 and 125\xc2\xa0\xce\xbcg/kg (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001). Results of the study demonstrated that the level of ALP and AST decreases significantly (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.001 and p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05, respectively), while the level of ALT did not change. The results that BPA significantly decreased Beta-2 protein and increased Gama protein serum levels in rats (p\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.01).CONCLUSION: Results of this study demonstrated that BPA increase gamma globulin protein levels and decreases the level of alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase and serum protein \xce\xb22 and causes weight loss in rats after treatment. This research also demonstrated that the toxic effect of BPA on liver is induced by oxidative stress. labels: #Alanine Transaminase#Alkaline Phosphatase#Animals#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Benzhydryl Compounds#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Environmental Pollutants#Liver#Male#Oxidative Stress#Phenols#Rats#Rats, Wistar'
b"Pathogen avoidance behaviors are found throughout the animal kingdom and are important for animal's survival in nature. As a free-living nematode, C.\xc2\xa0elegans is exposed to a variety of microorganisms, including toxic or pathogenic bacteria, in soil. C.\xc2\xa0elegans can develop efficient avoidance responses to pathogenic bacteria to minimize the infection risk. However, the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in pathogen avoidance in C.\xc2\xa0elegans remains unclear. In this report, we showed that the miRNA mir-67 was involved in a behavioral avoidance response to P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14. Exposure to P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14 induced the expression of mir-67 in worms. mir-67(n4899) mutants exhibited a reduced ability to avoid P.\xc2\xa0aeruginosa PA14. By combining quantitative proteomic analysis with miRNA target prediction algorithms, we identified SAX-7/L1CAM, which is transmembrane cell adhesion receptor molecule, as the target of mir-67. Silencing of sax-7 by RNAi on mir-67 mutants rescued avoidance behavioral. Our data demonstrate that the mir-67-SAX-7 pathway modulate the behavioral avoidance response to pathogens, thus providing a new perspective in the role of miRNAs in host-microbe interactions. labels: #Animals#Avoidance Learning#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Host-Pathogen Interactions#MicroRNAs#Neural Cell Adhesion Molecules#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#RNA, Helminth#Signal Transduction"
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the association between stress hyperglycemia and risk of new stroke in patients with a minor ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack.METHODS: A subgroup of 3026 consecutive patients from 73 prespecified sites of the CHANCE trial (Clopidogrel in High-Risk Patients With Acute Nondisabling Cerebrovascular Events) were analyzed. Stress hyperglycemia was measured by glucose/glycated albumin (GA) ratio. Glucose/GA ratio was calculated by fasting plasma glucose divided by GA and categorized into 4 even groups according to the quartiles. The primary outcome was a new stroke (ischemic or hemorrhagic) at 90 days. We assessed the association between glucose/GA ratio and risk of stroke by multivariable Cox regression models adjusted for potential covariates.RESULTS: Among 3026 patients included, a total of 299 (9.9%) new stroke occurred at 3 months. Compared with patients with the lowest quartile, patients with the highest quartile of glucose/GA ratio was associated with an increased risk of stroke at 3 months after adjusted for potential covariates (12.0% versus 9.2%; adjusted hazard ratio, 1.46; 95% confidence interval, 1.06-2.01). Similar results were observed after further adjusted for fasting plasma glucose. We also observed that higher level of glucose/GA ratio was associated with an increased risk of stroke with a threshold of 0.29 using a Cox regression model with restricted cubic spline.CONCLUSIONS: Stress hyperglycemia, measured by glucose/GA ratio, was associated with an increased risk of stroke in patients with a minor ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00979589. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Blood Glucose#Brain Ischemia#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Hyperglycemia#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Serum Albumin#Stroke#Ticlopidine'
b'of surveillance testing, April to June 2017International disease occurrence in the second quarter of 2017These are among matters discussed in the most recent quarterly equine disease surveillance report, prepared by Defra, the Animal Health Trust and the British Equine Veterinary Association. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Infections#Disease Outbreaks#Female#Horse Diseases#Horses#Internationality#Male#Parasitic Diseases, Animal#Pregnancy#Sentinel Surveillance#United Kingdom#Virus Diseases'
b'There are more migrants, refugees, and immigrants adrift in the world today than at any time in the recent past. Doctors and hospitals must care for people from many different cultures, countries, and religious backgrounds. We sometimes find our own deeply held beliefs and values challenged. In this "Ethics Rounds," we present a case in which a Pakistani immigrant family faces a tragic medical situation and wants to deal with it in ways that might be normative in their own culture but are aberrant in ours. We asked the American doctors and 2 Pakistani health professionals to think through the issues. We also invited the father to talk about his own experience and preferences. We conclude that strict adherence to Western ethical norms may not always be the best choice. Instead, an approach based on cultural humility may often allow people on both sides of a cultural divide to learn from one another. labels: #Attitude to Death#Child#Communication#Cross-Cultural Comparison#Humans#Male#Pakistan#Physician-Patient Relations#Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Children with severe influenza infection may require parenteral therapy if oral or inhaled therapies are ineffective or cannot be administered. Results from a study investigating intravenous (IV) zanamivir for the treatment of hospitalized infants and children with influenza are presented.METHODS: This phase II, open-label, multicenter, single-arm study assessed the safety of investigational IV zanamivir in hospitalized children with influenza. Safety outcomes included treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), clinical laboratory measurements, and vital signs. Clinical outcomes, pharmacokinetics, and virologic efficacy data were collected as key secondary outcomes.RESULTS: In total, 71 children received treatment with investigational IV zanamivir (exposure comparable to 600 mg twice daily in adults). TEAEs and serious TEAEs (STEAEs) were reported in 51 (72%) and 15 (21%) patients, respectively. The mortality rate was 7%, and median durations of hospital and ICU stays were 6 and 7.5 days, respectively. No STEAEs or deaths were considered related to IV zanamivir treatment, and no patterns of TEAEs, laboratory abnormalities, or vital signs were observed. The mean zanamivir exposures from 34 patients with normal renal function who received 12 mg/kg, 14 mg/kg, or 600 mg of IV zanamivir ranged from 64.5 to 110 hour\xc2\xb7\xc2\xb5g/mL. The median change from baseline in the viral load was -1.81 log10copies per mL after 2 days of treatment.CONCLUSIONS: The safety profile of IV zanamivir was favorable, with no drug-related STEAEs reported. The majority of children experienced virologic response and clinical improvement during the treatment course. Systemic zanamivir exposures in children were consistent with adults. labels: #Adolescent#Antiviral Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Infant#Influenza, Human#Infusions, Intravenous#Male#Neutropenia#Viral Load#Zanamivir'
b'Cryopreservation of Senegalese sole sperm can represent an alternative to overcome some reproductive problems of this species. However, it is important to guarantee the safe use of cryopreserved sperm by selecting an appropriate protocol according to a high demand quality need to be ensured. It has been demonstrated that traditional assays such as motility and viability do not provide enough information to identify specific damage caused by cryopreservation process (freezing and thawing). Specific tests, including lipid peroxidation and DNA damage, should be performed. In the present study, motility and lipid peroxidation were performed as specific tests allowing us to discard cryopreservation conditions such as methanol as internal cryoprotectant and bovine serum albumin as external cryoprotectant. In addition, a caspase 3/7 detection by flow cytometry was performed to analyze apoptosis activity in the best selected conditions. Moreover, new highly sensitive tests based on transcript number detection have recently been described in fish sperm cryopreservation. For this reason, a transcript level detection assay was performed on certain oxidative and chaperone genes related to fertilization ability and embryo development (hsp70, hsp90BB, hsp90AA, gpx) to select the best cryopreservation conditions. DMSO+ egg yolk proved to be the best cryoprotectant combination in terms of transcript level. This study describes an optimized cryopreservation protocol for Solea senegalensis sperm demonstrating for the first time that transcript degradation is the most sensitive predictor of cell status in this species after cryopreservation. labels: #Animals#Cryopreservation#Flatfishes#Male#Semen Preservation#Spermatozoa'
b'INTRODUCTION: Existing studies on facial growth were mostly cross-sectional in nature and only a limited number of facial measurements were investigated. The purposes of this study were to longitudinally investigate facial growth of Chinese in Hong Kong from 12 through 15 to 18 years of age and to compare the magnitude of growth changes between genders.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Standardized frontal and lateral facial photographs were taken from 266 (149 females and 117 males) and 265 (145 females and 120 males) participants, respectively, at all three age levels. Linear and angular measurements, profile inclinations, and proportion indices were recorded. Statistical analyses were performed to investigate growth changes of facial features. Comparisons were made between genders in terms of the magnitude of growth changes from ages 12 to 15, 15 to 18, and 12 to 18 years. For the overall face, all linear measurements increased significantly (p<0.05) except for height of the lower profile in females (p = 0.069) and width of the face in males (p = 0.648). In both genders, the increase in height of eye fissure was around 10% (p<0.001). There was significant decrease in nasofrontal angle (p<0.001) and increase in nasofacial angle (p<0.001) in both genders and these changes were larger in males. Vermilion-total upper lip height index remained stable in females (p = 0.770) but increased in males (p = 0.020). Nasofrontal angle (effect size: 0.55) and lower vermilion contour index (effect size: 0.59) demonstrated large magnitude of gender difference in the amount of growth changes from 12 to 18 years.CONCLUSIONS: Growth changes of facial features and gender differences in the magnitude of facial growth were determined. The findings may benefit different clinical specialties and other nonclinical fields where facial growth are of interest. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Face#Female#Hong Kong#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Photogrammetry'
b"PURPOSE: To assess the optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) retinal vessel density and foveal avascular zone (FAZ) in children with type 1 diabetes (T1D) and compare potential pathologic early changes in this population to healthy age-matched controls.METHODS: This study included 130 pubescent children: 94 with T1D (188 eyes) and 36 of their age-matched control group (60 eyes). OCTA was performed using AngioVue (Avanti, Optivue). FAZ area (mm2) in superficial plexus, whole superficial capillary vessel density (wsVD), fovea superficial vessel density (fsVD), parafovea superficial vessel density (psVD), whole deep vessel density (wdVD), fovea deep vessel density (fdVD), parafovea deep vessel density (pdVD), foveal thickness (FT) (\xce\xbcm) and parafoveal thickness (PFT) (\xce\xbcm) were taken into analysis. Among the studied patients with T1D there were assessed codependences regarding the investigated foveal and parafoveal parameters and selected potential predictors, i.e. patient's age (years), diabetes duration time (years), age of onset of the disease (years), mean level of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1C) (%), and concentration of serum creatinine (mg/dL).RESULTS: None of the abovementioned OCT and OCTA parameters was statistically significantly different between the groups. The patient's age statistically significantly did not influent any of the OCT and OCTA parameters. Yet an elevated level of HbA1C tended to reduce the parafovea superficial vessel density (p = 0.039), and parafoveal thickness (p = 0.003) and an increased serum creatinine level correlated with the decreased whole deep vessel density (p<0.001). The parafovea deep vessel density in the diabetic patients decreased when the serum creatinine level (p = 0.008), age of onset of the disease (p = 0.028), and diabetes duration time (p = 0.014) rose.CONCLUSIONS: Vessel density, both in superficial and deep plexuses, and FAZ area are normal in pubescent children with T1D comparing to healthy subjects. An elevated level of HbA1C correlated with reduced psVD and PFT. Longitudinal observation of these young patients is needed to determine if any of these OCTA measurements are predictive of future DR severity. labels: #Adolescent#Case-Control Studies#Child#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence"
b'Defining the vocal repertoire provides a basis for understanding the role of acoustic signals in sexual and social interactions of an animal. The Asian koel (Eudynamys scolopacea) is a migratory bird which spends its summer breeding season in the plains of Pakistan. The bird is typically wary and secretive but produces loud and distinct calls, making it easily detected when unseen. Like the other birds in the wild, presumably Asian koels use their calls for social cohesion and coordination of different behaviors. To date, the description of vocal repertoire of the male Asian koel has been lacking. Presently we analyzed and described for the first time the vocalizations of the adult male Asian koel, recorded in two consecutive breeding seasons. Using 10 call parameters, we categorized the vocalization type into six different categories on the basis of spectrogram and statistical analyses, namely the; "type 1 cooee call", "type 2 cooee call", "type 1 coegh call", "type 2 coegh call", "wurroo call" and "coe call". These names were assigned not on the basis of functional analysis and were therefore onomatopoeic. Stepwise cross validated discriminant function analysis classified the vocalization correctly (100%) into the predicted vocal categories that we initially classified on the basis of spectrographic examination. Our findings enrich the biological knowledge about vocalizations of the adult male Asian koel and provide a foundation for future acoustic monitoring of the species, as well as for comparative studies with vocalizations of other bird species of the cuckoo family. Further studies on the vocalizations of the Asian koel are required to unravel their functions in sexual selection and individual recognition. labels: #Animals#Birds#Breeding#Male#Sexual Behavior, Animal'
b'Increasing temperature and CO2 concentrations can alter tritrophic interactions in ecosystems, but the impact of increasingly severe drought on such interactions is not well understood. We examined the response of a wheat-aphid-parasitoid system to variation in water-deficit stress levels. Our results showed that arid area clones of the aphid, Sitobion avenae (Fabricius), tended to have longer developmental times compared to semiarid and moist area clones, and the development of S. avenae clones tended to be slower with increasing levels of water-deficit. Body sizes of S. avenae clones from all areas decreased with increasing water-deficit levels, indicating their declining adaptation potential under drought. Compared to arid area clones, moist area clones of S. avenae had a higher frequency of backing under severe water stress only, but a higher frequency of kicking under well-watered conditions only, suggesting a water-deficit level dependent pattern of resistance against the parasitoid, Aphidius gifuensis (Ashmead). The number of S. avenae individuals attacked by the parasitoid in 10 min showed a tendency to decrease with increasing water-deficit levels. Clones of S. avenae tended to have lower parasitism rates under treatments with higher water-deficit levels. The development of the parasitoid tended to be slower under higher levels of water-deficit stress. Thus, the bottom-up effects of water-deficit stressed plants were negative on S. avenae. However, the top-down effects via parasitoids were compromised by water-deficit, which could favor the growth of aphid populations. Overall, the first trophic level under water-deficit stress was shown to have an indirect and negative impact on the third trophic level parasitoid, suggesting that parasitoids could be increasingly vulnerable in future warming scenarios. labels: #Animals#Aphids#Dehydration#Triticum'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there are differences in autonomic nervous system function in early- versus late-onset preeclampsia.METHODS: Matched case-control study. Cases were defined as singleton pregnancies with preeclampsia at<34+0 weeks of gestation (early-onset preeclampsia) and \xe2\x89\xa5 34+0 weeks of gestation (late-onset preeclampsia). For each case in each of the preeclampsia subgroups, three "control"uncomplicated singleton pregnancies were matched by maternal age, height, and week of gestation. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured continuously for 30 minutes in each participant. Baroreceptor reflex sensitivity (assessed using sequence technique), time and frequency domain heart rate variability measures, as SDNN, RMSSD, LFRRI, HFRRI and LF/HFRRI of R-R intervals, were compared between groups (p<0.05 significant).RESULTS: 24 women with preeclampsia (10 with early-onset and 14 with late-onset preeclampsia) and 72 controls were included in the study. SDNN, RMSSD and HFRRI were significantly higher in the late-onset preeclampsia group compared to gestational age matched controls (p = 0.033, p = 0.002 and p = 0.018, respectively). No significant differences in SDNN RMSSD and HFRRI between early-onset preeclampsia group and gestational age matched controls were observed (p = 0.304, p = 0.325 and p = 0.824, respectively). Similarly, baroreceptor reflex sensitivity was higher in late-onset preeclampsia compared to controls at \xe2\x89\xa5 34 weeks (p = 0.037), but not different between early-onset preeclampsia compared to controls at<34 weeks (p = 0.50).CONCLUSIONS: Heart rate variability and baroreceptor reflex sensitivity are increased in late- but not early-onset preeclampsia compared to healthy pregnancies. This indicates a better autonomic nervous system mediated adaptation to preeclampsia related cardiovascular changes in late-onset disease. labels: #Adult#Case-Control Studies#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Pre-Eclampsia#Pregnancy#Pressoreceptors'
b"BACKGROUND: It has been suggested that strength training effects (i.e. neural or structural) vary, depending on the total repetitions performed and velocity loss in each training set.PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to compare the effects of two training programmes (i.e. one with loads that maximise power output and individualised repetitions, and the other following traditional power training).METHODS: Twenty-five males were divided into three groups (optimum power [OP = 10], traditional training [TT = 9]and control group [CG = 6]). The training load used for OP was individualised using loads that maximised power output (41.7% \xc2\xb1 5.8 of one repetition maximum [1RM]) and repetitions at maximum power (4 to 9 repetitions, or 'reps'). Volume (sets x repetitions) was the same for both experimental groups, while intensity for TT was that needed to perform only 50% of the maximum number of possible repetitions (i.e. 61.1%-66.6% of 1RM). The training programme ran over 11 weeks (2 sessions per week; 4-5 sets per session; 3-minute rests between sets), with pre-, intermediate and post-tests which included: anthropometry, 1RM, peak power output (PPO) with 30%, 40% and 50% of 1RM in the bench press throw, and salivary testosterone (ST) and cortisol (SC) concentrations. Rate of perceived exertion (RPE) and power output were recorded in all sessions.RESULTS: Following the intermediate test, PPO was increased in the OP group for each load (10.9%-13.2%). Following the post-test, both experimental groups had increased 1RM (11.8%-13.8%) and PPO for each load (14.1%-19.6%). Significant decreases in PPO were found for the TT group during all sets (4.9%-15.4%), along with significantly higher RPE (37%).CONCLUSION: OP appears to be a more efficient method of training, with less neuromuscular fatigue and lower RPE. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Muscle Strength#Resistance Training"
b"The red-backed salamander (Plethodon cinereus) has long-served as a model system in ecology, evolution, and behavior, and studies surveying molecular variation in this species have become increasingly common over the past decade. However, difficulties are commonly encountered when extending microsatellite markers to populations that are unstudied from a genetic perspective due to high levels of genetic differentiation across this species' range. To ameliorate this issue, we used 454 pyrosequencing to identify hundreds of microsatellite loci. We then screened 40 of our top candidate loci in populations in Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Ohio-including an isolated island population ~ 4.5 km off the shore of Lake Erie (South Bass Island). We identified 25 loci that are polymorphic in a well-studied region of Virginia and 11 of these loci were polymorphic in populations located in the genetically unstudied regions of Ohio and Pennsylvania. Use of these loci to examine patterns of variation within populations revealed that South Bass Island has low diversity in comparison to other sites. However, neither South Bass Island nor isolated populations around Cleveland are inbred. Assessment of variation between populations revealed three well defined genetic clusters corresponding to Virginia, mainland Ohio/Pennsylvania, and South Bass Island. Comparisons of our results to those of others working in various parts of the range are consistent with the idea that differentiation is lower in regions that were once glaciated. However, these comparisons also suggest that well differentiated isolated populations in the formerly glaciated portion of the range are not uncommon. This work provides novel genetic resources that will facilitate population genetic studies in a part of the red-backed salamander's range that has not previously been studied in this manner. Moreover, this work refines our understanding of how neutral variation is distributed in this ecologically important organism. labels: #Animals#Genetic Markers#Genetic Variation#Microsatellite Repeats#Ohio#Pennsylvania#Urodela#Virginia"
b'BACKGROUND: Chronic exposure of mammalian organism to morphine results in adaption to persistent high opioid tone through homeostatic adjustments. Our previous results indicated that in the frontal brain cortex (FBC) of rats exposed to morphine for 10 days, such a compensatory adjustment was detected as large up-regulation of adenylylcyclases I (8-fold) and II (2.5-fold). The other isoforms of AC (III-IX) were unchanged. Importantly, the increase of ACI and ACII was reversible as it disappeared after 20 days of morphine withdrawal. Changes of down-stream signaling molecules such as G proteins and adenylylcyclases should respond to and be preceded by primary changes proceeding at receptor level. Therefore in our present work, we addressed the problem of reversibility of the long-term morphine effects on \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR protein levels in FBC.METHODS: Rats were exposed to increasing doses of morphine (10-40 mg/kg) for 10 days and sacrificed either 24 h (group +M10) or 20 days (group +M10/-M20) after the last dose of morphine in parallel with control animals (groups -M10 and -M10/-M20). Post-nuclear supernatant (PNS) fraction was prepared from forebrain cortex, resolved by 1D-SDS-PAGE under non-dissociated (-DTT) and dissociated (+DTT) conditions, and analyzed for the content of \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR by immunoblotting with C- and N-terminus oriented antibodies.RESULTS: Significant down-regulation of \xce\xb4-OR form exhibiting Mw \xe2\x89\x88 60 kDa was detected in PNS prepared from both (+M10) and (+M10/-M20) rats. However, the total immunoblot signals of \xce\xbc-, \xce\xb4- and \xce\xba-OR, respectively, were unchanged. Plasma membrane marker Na, K-ATPase, actin and GAPDH were unaffected by morphine in both types of PNS. Membrane-domain marker caveolin-1 and cholesterol level increased in (+M10) rats and this increase was reversed back to control level in (+M10/-M20) rats.CONCLUSIONS: In FBC, prolonged exposure of rats to morphine results in minor (\xce\xb4-OR) or no change (\xce\xbc- and \xce\xba-OR) of opioid receptor content. The reversible increases of caveolin-1 and cholesterol levels suggest participation of membrane domains in compensatory responses during opioid withdrawal.GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Analysis of reversibility of morphine effect on mammalian brain. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional#Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel#Male#Morphine#Prosencephalon#Rats#Rats, Wistar#Receptors, Opioid, delta#Receptors, Opioid, kappa#Receptors, Opioid, mu#Substance Withdrawal Syndrome'
b"Three-dimensional (3D-) body scanning of children and adolescents allows the detailed study of physiological development in terms of anthropometrical alterations which potentially provide early onset markers for obesity. Here, we present a systematic analysis of body scanning data of 2,700 urban children and adolescents in the age range between 5 and 18 years with the special aim to stratify the participants into distinct body shape types and to describe their change upon development. In a first step, we extracted a set of eight representative meta-measures from the data. Each of them collects a related group of anthropometrical features and changes specifically upon aging. In a second step we defined seven body types by clustering the meta-measures of all participants. These body types describe the body shapes in terms of three weight (lower, normal and overweight) and three age (young, medium and older) categories. For younger children (age of 5-10 years) we found a common 'early childhood body shape' which splits into three weight-dependent types for older children, with one or two years delay for boys. Our study shows that the concept of body types provides a reliable option for the anthropometric characterization of developing and aging populations. labels: #Adolescent#Anthropometry#Child#Child, Preschool#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Urban Population"
b'Calpains are a family of intracellular proteases defined by a conserved protease domain. In the marine mollusk Aplysia californica, calpains are important for the induction of long-term synaptic plasticity and memory, at least in part by cleaving protein kinase Cs (PKCs) into constitutively active kinases, termed protein kinase Ms (PKMs). We identify 14 genes encoding calpains in Aplysia using bioinformatics, including at least one member of each of the four major calpain families into which metazoan calpains are generally classified, as well as additional truncated and atypical calpains. Six classical calpains containing a penta-EF-hand (PEF) domain are present in Aplysia. Phylogenetic analysis determined that these six calpains come from three separate classical calpain families. One of the classical calpains in Aplysia, AplCCal1, has been implicated in plasticity. We identify three splice cassettes and an alternative transcriptional start site in AplCCal1. We characterize several of the possible isoforms of AplCCal1 in vitro, and demonstrate that AplCCal1 can cleave PKCs into PKMs in a calcium-dependent manner in vitro. We also find that AplCCal1 has a novel mechanism of auto-inactivation through N-terminal cleavage that is modulated through its alternative transcriptional start site. labels: #Animals#Aplysia#Calpain#Neuronal Plasticity#Phylogeny#Transcription, Genetic'
b'BACKGROUND: There is widespread evidence that statistical methods play an important role in original research articles, especially in medical research. The evaluation of statistical methods and reporting in journals suffers from a lack of standardized methods for assessing the use of statistics. The objective of this study was to develop and evaluate an instrument to assess the statistical intensity in research articles in a standardized way.METHODS: A checklist-type measure scale was developed by selecting and refining items from previous reports about the statistical contents of medical journal articles and from published guidelines for statistical reporting. A total of 840 original medical research articles that were published between 2007-2015 in 16 journals were evaluated to test the scoring instrument. The total sum of all items was used to assess the intensity between sub-fields and journals. Inter-rater agreement was examined using a random sample of 40 articles. Four raters read and evaluated the selected articles using the developed instrument.RESULTS: The scale consisted of 66 items. The total summary score adequately discriminated between research articles according to their study design characteristics. The new instrument could also discriminate between journals according to their statistical intensity. The inter-observer agreement measured by the ICC was 0.88 between all four raters. Individual item analysis showed very high agreement between the rater pairs, the percentage agreement ranged from 91.7% to 95.2%.CONCLUSIONS: A reliable and applicable instrument for evaluating the statistical intensity in research papers was developed. It is a helpful tool for comparing the statistical intensity between sub-fields and journals. The novel instrument may be applied in manuscript peer review to identify papers in need of additional statistical review. labels: #Biomedical Research#Observer Variation#Publishing'
b'Pyridoxine dependent epilepsy (PDE) is caused by likely pathogenic variants in ALDH7A1 (PDE-ALDH7A1) and inherited autosomal recessively. Neurotoxic alpha-amino adipic semialdehyde (alpha-AASA), piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid accumulate in body fluids. Neonatal or infantile onset seizures refractory to anti-epileptic medications are clinical features. Treatment with pyridoxine, arginine and lysine-restricted diet does not normalize neurodevelopmental outcome or accumulation of neurotoxic metabolites. There is no animal model for high throughput drug screening. For this reason, we developed and characterized the first knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish model using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. Zebrafish aldh7a1 mutants were generated by using a vector free method of CRISPR-Cas9 mutagenesis. Genotype analysis of aldh7a1 knock-out zebrafish was performed by high resolution melt analysis, direct sequencing and QIAxcel system. Electroencephalogram was performed. Alpha-AASA, piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid, were measured by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Our knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish has homozygous 5 base pair (bp) mutation in ALDH7A1. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos have spontaneous rapid increase in locomotion and a rapid circling swim behavior earliest 8-day post fertilization (dpf). Electroencephalogram revealed large amplitude spike discharges compared to wild type. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos have elevated alpha-AASA, piperideine 6-carboxylate and pipecolic acid compared to wild type embryos at 3 dpf. Knock-out aldh7a1 embryos showed no aldh7a1 protein by western blot compared to wild type. Our knock-out aldh7a1 zebrafish is a well characterized model for large-scale drug screening using behavioral and biochemical features and accurately recapitulates the human PDE-ALDH7A1 disease. labels: #Action Potentials#Aldehyde Dehydrogenase#Animals#Behavior, Animal#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Electroencephalography#Epilepsy#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Pyridoxine#Zebrafish'
b'OBJECTIVE: To determine whether population-specific normative data should be employed when screening neurocognitive functioning as part of physician fitness for duty evaluations. If so, to provide such norms based on the evidence currently available.METHODS: A comparison of published data from four sources was analyzed. Data from the two physician samples were then entered into a meta-analysis to obtain full information estimates and generate provisional norms for physicians.RESULTS: Two-way analysis of variance (Study x Index) revealed a significant main effect and an interaction. Results indicate differences in mean levels of performance and standard deviation for physicians.CONCLUSIONS: Reliance on general population normative data results in under-identification of potential neuropsychological difficulties. Population specific normative data are needed to effectively evaluate practicing physicians. labels: #Humans#Neuropsychological Tests#Physicians#Professional Impairment'
b'INTRODUCTION: Many people at high risk for sexually transmitted infections (STIs), e.g., men who have sex with men (MSM), are not optimally reached by current sexual health care systems with testing. To facilitate testing by home-based sampling or sampling in outreach setting we evaluated dried blood spots (DBS), a method for self-collected blood sampling for serological screening of HIV, hepatitis B (HBV) and syphilis. The aims of this study were to assess the acceptability and feasibility of self-collected DBS and to compare the test results for screening of HIV, HBV and syphilis from DBS with blood drawn by venous puncture.METHODS: DBS were collected from men who have sex with men (MSM), visiting the STI clinic of the public health service South Limburg (n = 183) and HIV positive and HBV positive patients (n = 34), visiting the outpatient clinics of the Maastricht University Medical Centre in the period January 2012-April 2015. The 93 first participating MSM visiting the STI clinic were asked to fill in a questionnaire about the feasibility and acceptability about self-collection of DBS in a setting without going to a health care facility and were asked to collect the DBS themselves. Serological screening tests for HIV (HIV combi PT, Roche), HBV (HBsAg, Roche) and syphilis (Treponema pallidum Ig, Biokit 3.0) were performed on DBS and on blood drawn by venous puncture, which was routinely taken for screening.RESULTS: In total 217 participants were included in the study with a median age of 40 years (range between 17-80). Of MSM 84% agreed that it was clear and easy to do the finger-prick, while 53% agreed that it was clear and easy to apply the blood onto the DBS card. Also, 80% of MSM would use the bloodspot test again. In 91% (198) of DBS, sufficient material was collected to perform the three tests. No difference was observed in DBS quality between self-collected DBS and health care worker collected DBS. For HIV (n = 195 DBS-serum pairs) sensitivity and specificity were 100%. For HBV the sensitivity for HBsAg (n = 202) was 90% and specificity was 99%. For syphilis (n = 191) the sensitivity of the DBS was 93% with a specificity of 99%. Analysis of the DBS of HIV positive participants (n = 38) did show similar test performance for HBV and syphilis as in HIV negatives.CONCLUSION: DBS is an acceptable self-sampling method for MSM, as there was no difference in DBS quality in self-collected and health care worker collected DBS. Test performance, i.e., its high sensitivity (>90%) and specificity (>99%) measures show that DBS is a valid alternative for venous blood puncture. Especially when DBS is combined with home-collected sampling for Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, complete STI screening can be done in outreach setting and/or home-collected sampling in MSM. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#HIV Infections#Hepatitis B#Homosexuality, Male#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Self Care#Specimen Handling#Syphilis#Young Adult'
b'Tropical wetlands are thought to be the most important source of interannual variability in atmospheric methane (CH4) concentrations, yet sparse data prevents them from being incorporated into Earth system models. This problem is particularly pronounced in the neotropics where bottom-up models based on water table depth are incongruent with top-down inversion models suggesting unaccounted sinks or sources of CH4. The newly documented vast areas of peatlands in the Amazon basin may account for an important unrecognized CH4 source, but the hydrologic and biogeochemical controls of CH4 dynamics from these systems remain poorly understood. We studied three zones of a peatland in Madre de Dios, Peru, to test whether CH4 emissions and pore water concentrations varied with vegetation community, soil chemistry and proximity to groundwater sources. We found that the open-canopy herbaceous zone emitted roughly one-third as much CH4 as the Mauritia flexuosa palm-dominated areas (4.7 \xc2\xb1 0.9 and 14.0 \xc2\xb1 2.4 mg CH4 m-2 h-1, respectively). Emissions decreased with distance from groundwater discharge across the three sampling sites, and tracked changes in soil carbon chemistry, especially increased soil phenolics. Based on all available data, we calculate that neotropical peatlands contribute emissions of 43 \xc2\xb1 11.9 Tg CH4 y-1, however this estimate is subject to geographic bias and will need revision once additional studies are published. labels: #Methane#Tropical Climate#Wetlands'
b'The polled phenotype of cattle is increasingly becoming favourable mainly because of the enhanced emphasis on animal welfare, for which the causative mutations have been reported during the past years. The Shuxuan cattle are a new synthetic breed by crossing the indigenous cattle with both Simmental and Holstein semen in Sichuan of Southwest China, in which about 15% of polled individuals have newly emerged. Because official record about POLLED genotypes for the historically imported sires is unavailable, we therefore genotyped the proposed POLLED variants of P202ID, P80kbID and P219ID among 48 polled and 16 horned Shuxuan cattle. It was first revealed that all three candidate mutations have been simultaneously introgressed into Shuxuan cattle, whereas the P202ID mutation is dominant. Furthermore, one polled animal still remains to carry none of the three candidate mutations, which suggests that further mutation(s) would also exist. Additionally, we sequenced mitochondrial DNA and found that Shuxuan cattle are composed of two matrilineal origins of Bos taurus (65.6%) and B. indicus (34.4%); and there is no origin-biased distribution of polled phenotype. In conclusion, our study first supports the recently reported novel candidate mutation of P219ID and detects simultaneous presences of all three known POLLED mutations within a cattle breed. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#Cattle#China#Mutation'
b'Gene flow dynamics of common ash (Fraxinus excelsior L.) is affected by several human activities in Central Europe, including habitat fragmentation, agroforestry expansion, controlled and uncontrolled transfer of reproductive material, and a recently introduced emerging infectious disease, ash dieback, caused by Hymenoscyphus fraxineus. Habitat fragmentation may alter genetic connectivity and effective population size, leading to loss of genetic diversity and increased inbreeding in ash populations. Gene flow from cultivated trees in landscapes close to their native counterparts may also influence the adaptability of future generations. The devastating effects of ash dieback have already been observed in both natural and managed populations in continental Europe. However, potential long-term effects of genetic bottlenecks depend on gene flow across fragmented landscapes. For this reason, we studied the genetic connectivity of ash trees in an isolated forest patch of a fragmented landscape in R\xc3\xb6senbeck, Germany. We applied two approaches to parentage analysis to estimate gene flow patterns at the study site. We specifically investigated the presence of background pollination at the landscape level and the degree of genetic isolation between native and cultivated trees. Local meteorological data was utilized to understand the effect of wind on the pollen and seed dispersal patterns. Gender information of the adult trees was considered for calculating the dispersal distances. We found that the majority of the studied seeds (55-64%) and seedlings (75-98%) in the forest patch were fathered and mothered by the trees within the same patch. However, we determined a considerable amount of pollen flow (26-45%) from outside of the study site, representing background pollination at the landscape level. Limited pollen flow was observed from neighbouring cultivated trees (2%). Both pollen and seeds were dispersed in all directions in accordance with the local wind directions. Whereas there was no positive correlation between pollen dispersal distance and wind speed, the correlation between seed dispersal distance and wind speed was significant (0.71, p<0.001), indicating that strong wind favours long-distance dispersal of ash seeds. Finally, we discussed the implications of establishing gene conservation stands and the use of enrichment planting in the face of ash dieback. labels: #DNA, Plant#Ecosystem#Fraxinus#Gene Flow#Genes, Plant#Microsatellite Repeats#Pollen#Pollination#Wind'
b'IMPORTANCE: Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is characterised by a constellation of symptoms diagnosed with a number of different polythetic criteria. Heterogeneity across these diagnostic criteria is likely to be confounding research into the as-yet-unknown pathophysiology underlying this stigmatised and debilitating condition and may diagnose a disease spectrum with significant implications for clinical management. No studies to date have objectively investigated this possibility using a validated measure of CFS symptoms-the DePaul Symptom Questionnaire (DSQ).OBJECTIVE: To examine whether current CFS diagnostic criteria are identifying different disease phenotypes using the DSQ.DESIGN: Case control study.SETTING: Clinical Research Facility of the Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.PARTICIPANTS: 49 CFS subjects and ten matched, sedentary community controls, excluded for co-morbid depression.MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Self-reported autonomic and cognitive features were assessed with the Composite Autonomic Symptom Score (COMPASS) and Cognitive Failures Questionnaire (COGFAIL) respectively. Objective autonomic cardiovascular parameters were examined using the Task Force\xc2\xae Monitor and a battery of neuropsychological tests administered for objective cognitive assessment.RESULTS: Self-reported autonomic and cognitive symptoms were significantly greater in CFS subjects compared to controls. There were no statistically significant differences in objective autonomic measures between CFS and controls. There were clinically significant differences between DSQ subgroups on objective autonomic testing. Visuospatial memory, verbal memory and psychomotor speed were significantly different between DSQ subgroups.CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The finding of no significant differences in objective autonomic testing between CFS and control subjects may reflect the inclusion of sedentary controls or exclusion for co-morbid depression. Consistent exclusion criteria would enable better delineation of these two conditions and their presenting symptoms. Findings across CFS subgroups suggest subjects have a different disease burden on subjective and objective measures of function, autonomic parameters and cognitive impairment when categorised using the DSQ. Different CFS criteria may at best be diagnosing a spectrum of disease severities and at worst different CFS phenotypes or even different diseases. This complicates research and disease management and may contribute to the significant stigma associated with the condition. labels: #Adult#Aged#Case-Control Studies#Fatigue Syndrome, Chronic#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"Heat stress is one of the most detrimental confrontations in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, causing considerable economic losses in poultry production. Propolis, a resinous product of worker honeybees, possesses several biological activities that could be used to alleviate the deleterious effects of high environmental temperature on poultry production. The current study was aimed at evaluating the effects of propolis supplementation to Japanese quail (Coturnix coturnix japonica) diets on the production performance, intestinal histomorphology, relative physiological and immunological parameters, and selected gene expression under heat stress conditions. Three hundred one-day-old Japanese quail chicks were randomly distributed into 20 wired-cages. At 28 d of age, the birds were divided into 2 temperature treatment groups; a normal at 24\xc2\xb0C (C group) and a heat stress at 35\xc2\xb0C (HS group). The birds in each group were further assigned to 2 subgroups; one of them was fed on a basal diet without propolis supplementation (-Pr subgroup) while the other was supplemented with propolis (+Pr subgroup). Production performance including body weight gain, feed intake and feed conversion ratio were measured. The intestinal histomorphological measurements were also performed for all treatment groups. Relative physiological parameters including body temperature, corticosterone hormone level, malondialdehyde (MDA) and free triiodothyronine hormone (fT3), as well as the relative immunological parameters including the total white blood cells count (TWBC's), heterophil/lymphocyte (H/L) ratio and lymphocyte proliferation index, were also measured. Furthermore, the mRNA expression for toll like receptor 5 (TLR5), cysteine-aspartic protease-6 (CASP6) and heat shock proteins 70 and 90 (Hsp70 and Hsp90) genes was quantified in this study. The quail production performance was significantly (P<0.05) impaired by HS treatment, while Pr treatment significantly improved the quail production performance. The villus width and area were significantly (P<0.05) lower in the HS compared to the C group, while Pr treatment significantly increased crypts depth of quail. A negative impact of HS treatment was observed on the physiological status of quail; however, propolis significantly alleviated this negative effect. Moreover, quail of the HS group expressed lower immunological parameters than C group, while propolis enhanced the immune status of the quail. The relative mRNA expression of TLR5 gene was down-regulated by HS treatment while it was up-regulated by the Pr treatment. Furthermore, the positive effects of propolis in HS-quail were evidenced by normalizing the high expressions of CASP6 and Hsp70 genes when compared to the C group. Based on these results, the addition of propolis to quail diets as a potential nutritional strategy in order to improve their performance, especially under heat stress conditions, is recommended. labels: #Animals#Coturnix#Heat Stress Disorders#Propolis"
b'We explored the utility of neural stem cells (NSCs) as an in vitro model for evaluating preclinical therapeutics in succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase-deficient (SSADHD) mice. NSCs were obtained from aldh5a1+/+ and aldh5a1-/- mice (aldh5a1 = aldehyde dehydrogenase 5a1 = SSADH). Multiple parameters were evaluated including: (1) production of GHB (\xce\xb3-hydroxybutyrate), the biochemical hallmark of SSADHD; (2) rescue from cell death with the dual mTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin) inhibitor, XL-765, an agent previously shown to rescue aldh5a1-/- mice from premature lethality; (3) mitochondrial number, total reactive oxygen species, and mitochondrial superoxide production, all previously documented as abnormal in aldh5a1-/- mice; (4) total ATP levels and ATP consumption; and (5) selected gene expression profiles associated with epilepsy, a prominent feature in both experimental and human SSADHD. Patterns of dysfunction were observed in all of these parameters and mirrored earlier findings in aldh5a1-/- mice. Patterns of dysregulated gene expression between hypothalamus and NSCs centered on ion channels, GABAergic receptors, and inflammation, suggesting novel pathomechanisms as well as a developmental ontogeny for gene expression potentially associated with the murine epileptic phenotype. The NSC model of SSADHD will be valuable in providing a first-tier screen for centrally-acting therapeutics and prioritizing therapeutic concepts of preclinical animal studies applicable to SSADHD. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Amino Acid Metabolism, Inborn Errors#Animals#Brain#Culture Media#Developmental Disabilities#Disease Models, Animal#Epilepsy#In Vitro Techniques#Mice#Neural Stem Cells#Oxidative Stress#Succinate-Semialdehyde Dehydrogenase'
b'Across scientific disciplines, thresholded pairwise measures of statistical dependence between time series are taken as proxies for the interactions between the dynamical units of a network. Yet such correlation measures often fail to reflect the underlying physical interactions accurately. Here we systematically study the problem of reconstructing direct physical interaction networks from thresholding correlations. We explicate how local common cause and relay structures, heterogeneous in-degrees and non-local structural properties of the network generally hinder reconstructibility. However, in the limit of weak coupling strengths we prove that stationary systems with dynamics close to a given operating point transition to universal reconstructiblity across all network topologies. labels: #Algorithms#Computer Simulation#Models, Neurological#Nonlinear Dynamics'
b'Highly structured RNA derived from viral genomes is a key cellular indicator of viral infection. In response, cells produce the interferon inducible RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) that, when bound to viral dsRNA, phosphorylates eukaryotic initiation factor 2\xce\xb1 and attenuates viral protein translation. Adenovirus can evade this line of defence through transcription of a non-coding RNA, VAI, an inhibitor of PKR. VAI consists of three base-paired regions that meet at a three-way junction; an apical stem responsible for the interaction with PKR, a central stem required for inhibition, and a terminal stem. Recent studies have highlighted the potential importance of the tertiary structure of the three-way junction to PKR inhibition by enabling interaction between regions of the central and terminal stems. To further investigate the role of the three-way junction, we characterized the binding affinity and inhibitory potential of central stem mutants designed to introduce subtle alterations. These results were then correlated with small-angle X-ray scattering solution studies and computational tertiary structural models. Our results demonstrate that while mutations to the central stem have no observable effect on binding affinity to PKR, mutations that appear to disrupt the structure of the three-way junction prevent inhibition of PKR. Therefore, we propose that instead of simply sequestering PKR, a specific structural conformation of the PKR-VAI complex may be required for inhibition. labels: #Mutation#RNA, Viral#Scattering, Radiation#Transcription, Genetic#eIF-2 Kinase'
b'The Late Pleistocene Shanidar 1 older adult male Neandertal is known for the crushing fracture of his left orbit with a probable reduction in vision, the loss of his right forearm and hand, and evidence of an abnormal gait, as well as probable diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis. He also exhibits advanced external auditory exostoses in his left auditory meatus and larger ones with complete bridging across the porus in the right meatus (both Grade 3). These growths indicate at least unilateral conductive hearing (CHL) loss, a serious sensory deprivation for a Pleistocene hunter-gatherer. This condition joins the meatal atresia of the Middle Pleistocene Atapuerca-SH Cr.4 in providing evidence of survival with conductive hearing loss (and hence serious sensory deprivation) among these Pleistocene humans. The presence of CHL in these fossils thereby reinforces the paleobiological and archeological evidence for supporting social matrices among these Pleistocene foraging peoples. labels: #Animals#Ear, External#Exostoses#Fossils#Hearing Loss, Conductive#Hominidae#Neanderthals'
b'Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is a lipid and protein phosphatase that antagonizes signaling by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT signaling pathway. The PTEN gene is a major tumor suppressor, with mutations of this gene occurring frequently in tumors of humans and mice. We have now developed mutant medaka deficient in PTEN with the use of transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALEN) technology. Medaka possesses two pten genes, ptena and ptenb, similar to zebrafish. We established 16 ptena mutant lines and two ptenb mutant lines. Homozygous single pten mutants were found to be viable and fertile. In contrast, pten double-knockout (dko) embryos manifested severe abnormalities in vasculogenesis, eye size, and tail development at 72 hours post fertilization(hpf) and died before hatching. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the ratio of phosphorylated to total forms of AKT (pAKT/AKT) in pten dko embryos was four times that in wild-type embryos, indicative of up-regulation of signaling by the PI3K-AKT pathway. Treatment of pten dko embryos with the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 reduced the pAKT/AKT ratio by about one-half and partially rescued the defect in vasculogenesis. Additional inhibitors of the PI3K-AKT pathway, including rapamycin and N-\xce\xb1-tosyl-L-phenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone, also partially restored vasculogenesis in the dko embryos. Our model system thus allows pten dko embryos to be readily distinguished from wild-type embryos at an early stage of development and is suitable for the screening of drugs able to compensate for PTEN deficiency. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Oryzias#PTEN Phosphohydrolase#Transcription Activator-Like Effector Nucleases'
b'The transcription factor NR4A1 has emerged as a pivotal regulator of the inflammatory response and immune homeostasis. Although contribution of NR4A1 in the innate immune response has been demonstrated, its role in host defense against viral infection remains to be investigated. In the present study, we show that administration of cytosporone B (Csn-B), a specific agonist of NR4A1, to mice infected with influenza virus (IAV) reduces lung viral loads and improves pulmonary function. Our results demonstrate that administration of Csn-B to naive mice leads to a modest production of type 1 IFN. However, in IAV-infected mice, such production of IFNs is markedly increased following treatment with Csn-B. Our study also reveals that alveolar macrophages (AMs) appear to have a significant role in Csn-B effects, since selective depletion of AMs with clodronate liposome correlates with a marked reduction of IFN production, viral clearance and morbidity in IAV-infected mice. Furthermore, when reemergence of AMs is observed following clodronate liposome administration, an increased production of IFNs was detected in bronchoalveolar fluids of IAV-infected mice treated with Csn-B, supporting the contribution of AMs in Csn-B effects. While treatment of mice with Csn-B induces phosphorylation of transcriptional factors IRF3 and IRF7, the latter appears to be less indispensable since effects of Csn-B treatment on the synthesis of IFNs were slightly affected in IAV-infected mice lacking functional IRF7. Together, our results highlight the capacity of Csn-B and consequently of NR4A1 transcription factor in controlling IAV infection. labels: #Animals#Female#Humans#Influenza, Human#Interferon Type I#Lung#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4, Group A, Member 1#Phenylacetates#Respiratory Function Tests#Viral Load'
b'Gibberellin wastewater cannot be directly discharged without treatment due to its high concentrations of sulfate and organic compounds and strong acidity. Therefore, multi-stage anaerobic bioreactor + micro-aerobic+ anoxic/aeration (A/O) + biological contact oxidation combined processes are used to treat gibberellin wastewater. However, knowledge of the treatment effects of the A/O process and bacterial community structure in the aeration tank reactors of such systems is sparse. Therefore, this study was conducted to investigate the treatment effects and operation of the A/O process on gibberellin wastewater, as well as changes in the bacterial community structure of activated sludge in the aeration tank during treatment. Moreover, removal was examined based on evaluation of effluent after A/O treatment. Although influent chemical oxygen demand (COD), NH3-N and total phosphorus (TP) fluctuated, effluent COD, NH3-N and TP remained stable. Moreover, average COD, NH3-N and TP removal efficiency were 68.41%, 93.67% and 45.82%, respectively, during the A/O process. At the phylum level, Proteobacteria was the dominant phylum in all samples, followed by Chloroflexi, Bacteroidetes and Actinobacteria. Proteobacteria played an important role in the removal of organic matter. Chloroflexi was found to be responsible for the degradation of carbohydrates and Bacteroidetes also had been found to be responsible for the degradation of complex organic matters. Actinobacteria are able to degrade a variety of environmental chemicals. Additionally, Anaerolineaceae_uncultured was the major genus in samples collected on May 25, 2015, while Novosphingobium and Nitrospira were dominant in most samples. Nitrosomonas are regarded as the dominant ammonia-oxidizing bacteria, while Nitrospira are the main nitrite-oxidizing bacteria. Bacterial community structure varied considerably with time, and a partial Mantel test showed a highly significant positive correlation between bacterial community structure and DO. The bacterial community structure was also positively correlated with temperature and SO42-. labels: #Bacteria#Bioreactors#Gibberellins#Oxygen#Waste Water#Water Microbiology'
b"Boswellia sacra, a frankincense producing endemic tree, has been well known for its cultural, religious and economic values. However, the tree has been least explored for the associated microsymbiota in the rhizosphere. The current study elucidates the fungal and bacterial communities of the rhizospheric regions of the wild and cultivated B. sacra tree populations through next generation sequencing. The sequence analysis showed the existence of 1006\xc2\xb18.9 and 60.6\xc2\xb13.1 operational taxonomic unit (OTUs) for bacterial and fungal communities respectively. In fungal communities, five major phyla were found with significantly higher abundance of Ascomycota (60.3%) in wild population and Basidiomycota (52%) in cultivated tree rhizospheres. Among bacterial communities, 31 major phyla were found, with significant distribution of Actinobacteria in wild tree rhizospheres, whereas Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria were highly abundant in cultivated trees. The diversity and abundance of microbiome varied significantly depending upon soil characteristics of the three different populations. In addition, significantly higher glucosidases, cellulases and indole-3-acetic acid were found in cultivated tree's rhizospheres as compared to wild tree populations. for these plants to survive the harsh arid-land environmental conditions. The current study is a first comprehensive work and advances our knowledge about the core fungal and bacterial microbial microbiome associated with this economically important tree. labels: #Bacteria#Boswellia#Frankincense#Fungi#Rhizosphere"
b'Ex vivo 2-photon fluorescence microscopy (2PFM) with optical clearing enables vascular imaging deep into tissue. However, optical clearing may also produce spherical aberrations if the objective lens is not index-matched to the clearing material, while the perfusion, clearing, and fixation procedure may alter vascular morphology. We compared in vivo and ex vivo 2PFM in mice, focusing on apparent differences in microvascular signal and morphology. Following in vivo imaging, the mice (four total) were perfused with a fluorescent gel and their brains fructose-cleared. The brain regions imaged in vivo were imaged ex vivo. Vessels were segmented in both images using an automated tracing algorithm that accounts for the spatially varying PSF in the ex vivo images. This spatial variance is induced by spherical aberrations caused by imaging fructose-cleared tissue with a water-immersion objective. Alignment of the ex vivo image to the in vivo image through a non-linear warping algorithm enabled comparison of apparent vessel diameter, as well as differences in signal. Shrinkage varied as a function of diameter, with capillaries rendered smaller ex vivo by 13%, while penetrating vessels shrunk by 34%. The pial vasculature attenuated in vivo microvascular signal by 40% 300 \xce\xbcm below the tissue surface, but this effect was absent ex vivo. On the whole, ex vivo imaging was found to be valuable for studying deep cortical vasculature. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Brain#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Mice'
b'The harbour porpoise is the only cetacean species native to German waters. Since human pressures are suggested to shorten their reproductive lifespan, basic knowledge on reproduction is strongly required. One parameter is the onset of sexual maturity in female harbour porpoises. Therefore, we investigated the first signs of sexual maturity for a period of almost two decades (1990-2016). Ovaries from 111 female harbour porpoises from the German North Sea and Baltic Sea were examined for the presence and morphological structure of follicles, corpora lutea and corpora albicantia. Based on the ovarian characteristics we performed the first model-based estimation of age at sexual maturity for harbour porpoises from German waters. Additionally, we produced a demographical age structure based on all female strandings and bycatches from German coasts. Our results showed that corpora lutea and corpora albicantia as signs of former ovulation could be found in individuals at an age of 4.95 (\xc2\xb1 0.6) years. No significant differences between specimens from the North Sea and Baltic Sea were detected. However, the average age at death differed significantly with 5.70 (\xc2\xb1 0.27) years for North Sea animals and 3.67 (\xc2\xb1 0.30) years for those in the Baltic Sea. Growing evidence exists that the shortened lifespan of Baltic Sea harbour porpoises is linked to an anthropogenically influenced environment with rising bycatch mortalities due to local gillnet fisheries. Thus, our findings support the idea of local management plans based on a model-based detection of age at sexual maturity and considering the anthropogenic impacts on the population for effective protection of harbour porpoises and the North Sea and Baltic Sea. labels: #Animals#Baltic States#Female#North Sea#Phocoena#Reproduction'
b'OBJECTIVES: Odontogenic tumors (OT) represent a specific pathological category that includes some lesions with unpredictable biological behavior. Although most of these lesions are benign, some, such as the ameloblastoma, exhibit local aggressiveness and high recurrence rates. The most common types of ameloblastoma are the solid/multicystic (SA) and the unicystic ameloblastoma (UA); the latter considered a much less aggressive entity as compared to the SA. The microRNA system regulates the expression of many human genes while its deregulation has been associated with neoplastic development. The aim of the current study was to determine the expression profiles of microRNAs present in the two most common types of ameloblastomas.MATERIAL & METHODS: MicroRNA expression profiles were assessed using TaqMan\xc2\xae Low Density Arrays (TLDAs) in 24 samples (8 SA, 8 UA and 8 control samples). The findings were validated using quantitative RTqPCR in an independent cohort of 19 SA, 8 UA and 19 dentigerous cysts as controls.RESULTS: We identified 40 microRNAs differentially regulated in ameloblastomas, which are related to neoplastic development and differentiation, and with the osteogenic process. Further validation of the top ranked microRNAs revealed significant differences in the expression of 6 of them in relation to UA, 7 in relation to SA and 1 (miR-489) that was related to both types.CONCLUSION: We identified a new microRNA signature for the ameloblastoma and for its main types, which may be useful to better understand the etiopathogenesis of this neoplasm. In addition, we identified a microRNA (miR-489) that is suggestive of differentiating among solid from unicystic ameloblastoma. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Ameloblastoma#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Jaw Neoplasms#Male#MicroRNAs#Middle Aged#Young Adult'
b'Vitis vinifera cv. Koshu is an indigenous grape cultivar that has been cultivated for more than a thousand years in Japan and one of the most important cultivars in white winemaking. To improve Koshu wine quality, it is necessary to identify the metabolites in Koshu berry. We conducted a comprehensive and comparative lipidome analysis of Koshu and Pinot Noir berries cultivated in the same location in Japan using GC-MS/MS for fatty acids and LC-MS for glycerolipids and glycerophospholipids. Koshu skins and juices contained 22 and 19 fatty acids, respectively, whereas 23 and 20 fatty acids were detected in Pinot Noir skins and juices. C22:6n3 and C24:0 contents in Koshu skins were two and three times higher than those in Pinot Noir skins. C24:0 content in Koshu juices was also higher than that in Pinot Noir juices. Forty-nine lipid components (six digalactosyldiacylglycerols, one monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, 10 phosphatidylcholines, 12 phosphatidylethanolamines, and 20 triglycerides) were detected in Pinot Noir and Koshu skins. Strong peaks were observed for MGDG 36:6, DGDG 36:6, PC 34:2, PC 36:5, TG 54:6, TG 54:7, and TG 54:8 in Koshu skins. The contents of 36 of the 49 lipid components were significantly higher in Pinot Noir skins than Koshu skins. Pinot Noir skins contained more lipids whose alkyl chains have more than 18 carbons than Koshu skins. Further analysis of both lipid profiles revealed that the number of double bonds in a fatty acid molecule in Pinot Noir skins and juices was significantly larger than that in Koshu skins and juices. A strong relationship exists between the heat requirement of grapevine cultivars and the level of fatty acid desaturation. C18-fatty acids were the major components in Koshu and Pinot Noir berries. The expression levels of C18-fatty acid desaturases regulated the accumulation of C18-unsaturated fatty acids in berry skins. The loss of C18:3 in Koshu berries at the end of ripening was observed. Koshu might effectively convert C18:3 into (Z)-hex-3-enal for the production of C6-aroma compounds. These findings by the lipidome analysis are expected to contribute to the improvement of Koshu wine aroma and breeding strategies of cold-tolerant Koshu grapevines. labels: #Fatty Acids#Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry#Lipid Metabolism#Reproducibility of Results#Species Specificity#Tandem Mass Spectrometry#Vitis'
b'BACKGROUND: Mortality rates in females who survived acute myocardial infarction (AMI) exceed those in males. Differences between sexes in age, cardiovascular risk factors and revascularization therapy have been proposed as possible reasons.OBJECTIVE: To select sets of female and male patients comparable in respect of relevant risk factors in order to compare the sex-specific risk in a systematic manner.METHODS: Data of the ISAR-RISK and ART studies were investigated. Patients were enrolled between 1996 and 2005 and suffered from AMI within 4 weeks prior to enrolment. Patients of each sex were selected with 1:1 equivalent age, previous AMI history, sinus-rhythm presence, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking status, left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), and revascularization therapy. Survival times were compared between sex groups in the whole study cohort and in the matched cohort.RESULTS: Of 3840 consecutive AMI survivors, 994 (25.9%) were females and 2846 (74.1%) were males. Females were older and suffered more frequently from hypertension and diabetes mellitus. In the whole cohort, females showed an increased mortality with a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.54 compared to males (p<0.0001). The matched cohort comprised 802 patients of each sex and revealed a trend towards poorer survival in females (HR for female sex 1.14; p = 0.359). However, significant mortality differences with a higher risk in matched females was observed during the first year after AMI (HR = 1.61; p = 0.045) but not during the subsequent years.CONCLUSION: Matched sub-groups of post-AMI patients showed a comparable long-term mortality. However, a female excess mortality remained during first year after AMI and cannot be explained by differences in age, cardiovascular risk factors, and modes of acute treatment. Other causal factors, including clinical as well as psychological and social aspects, need to be considered. Female post-AMI patients should be followed more actively particularly during the first year after AMI. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Prospective Studies#Sex Factors'
b'The natural variant C491T (rs1800088) in ADRB2 gene substitutes Threonine to Isoleucine at 164th position in \xce\xb22AR and results in receptor sequestration and altered binding of agonists. Present investigation pursues to identify the effect of T164I variation on function and structure of \xce\xb22AR through systematic computational approaches. The study, in addition, addresses altered binding of salbutamol in T164I variant through molecular dynamic simulations. Methods involving changes in free energy, solvent accessibility surface area, root mean square deviations and analysis of binding cavity revealed structural perturbations in receptor to incur upon T164I substitution. For comprehensive understanding of receptor upon substitution, OPLS force field aided molecular dynamic simulations were performed for 10 ns. Simulations revealed massive structural departure for T164I \xce\xb22AR variant from the native state along with considerably higher root mean square fluctuations of residues near the cavity. Affinity prediction by molecular docking showed two folds reduced affinity of salbutamol in T164I variant. To validate the credibility docking results, simulations for ligand-receptor complex were performed which demonstrated unstable salbutamol-T164I \xce\xb22AR complex formation. Further, analysis of interactions in course of simulations revealed reduced ligand-receptor interactions of salbutamol in T164I variant. Taken together, studies herein provide structural rationales for suboptimal binding of salbutamol in T164I variant through integrated molecular modeling approaches. labels: #Adrenergic beta-2 Receptor Agonists#Albuterol#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Protein Binding#Receptors, Adrenergic, beta-2'
b'Purpose: Retinal ganglion cells (RGC) can be categorized into roughly 30 distinct subtypes. How these subtypes develop is poorly understood, in part because few unique subtype markers have been characterized. We tested whether the Prdm16 transcription factor is expressed by RGCs as a class or within particular ganglion cell subtypes.Methods: Embryonic and mature retinal sections and flatmount preparations were examined by immunohistochemistry for Prdm16 and several other cell type-specific markers. To visualize the morphology of Prdm16+ cells, we utilized Thy1-YFP-H transgenic mice, where a small random population of RGCs expresses yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) throughout the cytoplasm.Results: Prdm16 was expressed in the retina starting late in embryogenesis. Prdm16+ cells coexpressed the RGC marker Brn3a. These cells were arranged in an evenly spaced pattern and accounted for 2% of all ganglion cells. Prdm16+ cells coexpressed parvalbumin, but not calretinin, melanopsin, Smi32, or CART. This combination of marker expression and morphology data from Thy1-YFP-H mice suggested that the Prdm16+ cells represented a single ganglion cell subtype. Prdm16 also marked vascular endothelial cells and mural cells of retinal arterioles.Conclusions: A single subtype of ganglion cell appears to be uniquely marked by Prdm16 expression. While the precise identity of these ganglion cells is unclear, they most resemble the G9 subtype described by V\xc3\xb6lgyi and colleagues in 2009. Future studies are needed to determine the function of these ganglion cells and whether Prdm16 regulates their development. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Biomarkers#DNA-Binding Proteins#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Luminescent Proteins#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Parvalbumins#Retina#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Transcription Factor Brn-3A#Transcription Factors'
b'Purpose: AMD is the leading cause of human vision loss after 65 years of age. Several mechanisms have been proposed: (1) age-related failure of the choroidal vasculature leads to loss of RPE; (2) RPE dysfunctions due to accumulation of phagocytized, but unreleased A2E (N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine); (3) zinc deficiency activation of calpain and caspase proteases, leading to cell death. The purpose of the present study is to compare activation of calpain and caspase in monkey RPE cells cultured under hypoxia or with A2E.Methods: Monkey primary RPE cells were cultured under hypoxic conditions in a Gaspak pouch or cultured with synthetic A2E. Immunoblotting was used to detect activation of calpain and caspase. Calpain inhibitor, SNJ-1945, and pan-caspase inhibitor, z-VAD-fmk, were used to confirm activation of the proteases.Results: (1) Hypoxia and A2E each decreased viability of RPE cells in a time-dependent manner. (2) Incubation under hypoxia alone induced activation of calpain, but not caspases. SNJ-1945 inhibited calpain activation, but z-VAD-fmk did not. (3) Incubation with A2E alone induced activation of calpain, caspase-9, and caspase-3. SNJ-1945 inhibited calpain activation. z-VAD-fmk inhibited caspase activation, suggesting no interaction between calpain and caspases.Conclusions: Hypoxia activated the calpain pathway, while A2E activated both calpain and caspase pathways in monkey RPE cells. Such knowledge may be utilized in the treatment of AMD if inhibitor drugs against calpain and/or caspase are used to prevent RPE dysfunction caused by hypoxia or A2E. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Calpain#Caspase Inhibitors#Caspases#Cell Hypoxia#Cell Survival#Cells, Cultured#Enzyme Inhibitors#Immunoblotting#Macaca mulatta#Microscopy, Phase-Contrast#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Retinoids'
b'Background: Inappropriate prescribing is a well-known clinical problem in nursing home residents, but few interventions have focused on reducing inappropriate medication use.Objective: To examine successful discontinuation of inappropriate medication use and to improve prescribing in nursing home residents.Design: Pragmatic cluster randomized controlled trial, with clustering by elder care physicians and their wards. (ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01876095).Setting: 59 Dutch nursing home wards for long-term care.Patients: Residents with a life expectancy greater than 4 weeks who consented to treatment with medication.Intervention: Multidisciplinary Multistep Medication Review (3MR) consisting of an assessment of the patient perspective, medical history, critical appraisal of medications, a meeting between the treating elder care physician and the pharmacist, and implementation of medication changes.Measurements: Successful discontinuation of use of at least 1 inappropriate drug (that is, without relapse or severe withdrawal symptoms) and clinical outcomes (neuropsychiatric symptoms, cognitive function, and quality of life) after 4 months of follow-up.Results: Nineteen elder care physicians (33 wards) performed the 3MR, and 16 elder care physicians (26 wards) followed standard procedures. A total of 426 nursing home residents (233 in the intervention group and 193 in the control group) were followed for an average of 144 days (SD, 21). In an analysis of all participants, use of at least 1 inappropriate medication was successfully discontinued for 91 (39.1%) residents in the intervention group versus 57 (29.5%) in the control group (adjusted relative risk, 1.37 [95% CI, 1.02 to 1.75]). Clinical outcomes did not deteriorate between baseline and follow-up.Limitations: The 3MR was done only once. Some withdrawal symptoms or relapses may have been missed.Conclusion: The 3MR is effective in discontinuing inappropriate medication use in frail nursing home residents without a decline in their well-being.Primary Funding Source: Netherlands Organisation for Health Research and Development. labels: #Aged#Drug Utilization Review#Follow-Up Studies#Homes for the Aged#Humans#Inappropriate Prescribing#Nursing Homes#Polypharmacy#Quality of Life'
b"Importance: Dissatisfaction with medical malpractice litigation has stimulated interest by health care organizations in developing alternatives to meet patients' needs after medical injury. In communication-and-resolution programs (CRPs), hospitals and liability insurers communicate with patients about adverse events, use investigation findings to improve patient safety, and offer compensation when substandard care caused harm. Despite increasing interest in this approach, little is known about patients' and family members' experiences with CRPs.Objective: To explore the experiences of patients and family members with medical injuries and CRPs to understand different aspects of institutional responses to injury that promoted and impeded reconciliation.Design, Setting, and Participants: From January 6 through June 30, 2016, semistructured interviews were conducted with patients (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8927), family members (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893), and staff (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8910) at 3 US hospitals that operate CRPs. Patients and families were eligible for participation if they experienced a CRP, spoke English, and could no longer file a malpractice claim because they had accepted a settlement or the statute of limitations had expired. The CRP administrators identified hospital and insurer staff who had been involved in a CRP event and had a close relationship with the injured patient and/or family. They identified patients and families by applying the inclusion criteria to their CRP databases. Of 66 possible participants, 40 interviews (61%) were completed, including 30 of 50 invited patients and families (60%) and 10 of 16 invited staff (63%).Main Outcomes and Measures: Patients' reported satisfaction with disclosure and reconciliation efforts made by hospitals.Results: A total of 40 participants completed interviews (15 men and 25 women; mean [range] age, 46 [18-67]years). Among the 30 patients and family members interviewed, 27 patients experienced injuries attributed to error and received compensation. The CRP experience was positive overall for 18 of the 30 patients and family members, and 18 patients continued to receive care at the hospital. Satisfaction was highest when communications were empathetic and nonadversarial, including compensation negotiations. Patients and families expressed a strong need to be heard and expected the attending physician to listen without interrupting during conversations about the event. Thirty-five of the 40 respondents believed that including plaintiffs' attorneys in these discussions was helpful. Sixteen of the 30 patients and family members deemed their compensation to be adequate but 17 reported that the offer was not sufficiently proactive. Patients and families strongly desired to know what the hospital did to prevent recurrences of the event, but 24 of 30 reported receiving no information about safety improvement efforts.Conclusions and Relevance: As hospitals strive to provide more patient-centered care, opportunities exist to improve institutional responses to injuries and promote reconciliation. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Communication#Compensation and Redress#Family#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Iatrogenic Disease#Interviews as Topic#Male#Middle Aged#Negotiating#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Safety#Patient-Centered Care#Patients#Risk Management#United States"
b'Background: Primary aldosteronism is recognized as a severe form of renin-independent aldosteronism that results in excessive mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) activation.Objective: To investigate whether a spectrum of subclinical renin-independent aldosteronism that increases risk for hypertension exists among normotensive persons.Design: Cohort study.Setting: National community-based study.Participants: 850 untreated normotensive participants in MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis) with measurements of serum aldosterone and plasma renin activity (PRA).Measurements: Longitudinal analyses investigated whether aldosterone concentrations, in the context of physiologic PRA phenotypes (suppressed, \xe2\x89\xa40.50 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour; indeterminate, 0.51 to 0.99 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour; unsuppressed, \xe2\x89\xa51.0 \xc2\xb5g/L per hour), were associated with incident hypertension (defined as systolic blood pressure \xe2\x89\xa5140 mm Hg, diastolic blood pressure \xe2\x89\xa590 mm Hg, or initiation of antihypertensive medications). Cross-sectional analyses investigated associations between aldosterone and MR activity, assessed via serum potassium and urinary fractional excretion of potassium.Results: A suppressed renin phenotype was associated with a higher rate of incident hypertension than other PRA phenotypes (incidence rates per 1000 person-years of follow-up: suppressed renin phenotype, 85.4 events [95% CI, 73.4 to 99.3 events]; indeterminate renin phenotype, 53.3 events [CI, 42.8 to 66.4 events]; unsuppressed renin phenotype, 54.5 events [CI, 41.8 to 71.0 events]). With renin suppression, higher aldosterone concentrations were independently associated with an increased risk for incident hypertension, whereas no association between aldosterone and hypertension was seen when renin was not suppressed. Higher aldosterone concentrations were associated with lower serum potassium and higher urinary excretion of potassium, but only when renin was suppressed.Limitation: Sodium and potassium were measured several years before renin and aldosterone.Conclusion: Suppression of renin and higher aldosterone concentrations in the context of this renin suppression are associated with an increased risk for hypertension and possibly also with increased MR activity. These findings suggest a clinically relevant spectrum of subclinical primary aldosteronism (renin-independent aldosteronism) in normotension.Primary Funding Source: National Institutes of Health. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aldosterone#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Hyperaldosteronism#Hypertension#Incidence#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Potassium#Receptors, Mineralocorticoid#Renin#Risk Factors'
b'Saccadic adaptation is an oculomotor learning process that maintains the accuracy of eye movements to ensure effective perception of the environment. Although saccadic adaptation is commonly considered an automatic and low-level motor calibration in the cerebellum, we recently found that strength of adaptation is influenced by the visual content of the target: pictures of humans produced stronger adaptation than noise stimuli. This suggests that meaningful images may be considered rewarding or valuable in oculomotor learning. Here we report three experiments that establish the boundaries of this effect. In the first, we tested whether stimuli that were associated with high and low value following long term self-administered reinforcement learning produce stronger adaptation. Twenty-eight expert gamers participated in two sessions of adaptation to game-related high- and low-reward stimuli, but revealed no difference in saccadic adaptation (Bayes Factor01 = 5.49). In the second experiment, we tested whether cognitive (literate) meaning could induce stronger adaptation by comparing targets consisting of words and nonwords. The results of twenty subjects revealed no difference in adaptation strength (Bayes Factor01 = 3.21). The third experiment compared images of human figures to noise patterns for reactive saccades. Twenty-two subjects adapted significantly more toward images of human figures in comparison to noise (p<0.001). We conclude that only primary (human vs. noise), but not secondary, reinforcement affects saccadic adaptation (words vs. nonwords, high- vs. low-value video game images). labels: #Adaptation, Ocular#Adaptation, Physiological#Eye Movements#Female#Humans#Learning#Male#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Accurate measurement of adherence is necessary to ensure that therapeutic outcomes can be attributed to the recommended treatment. Phone-based unannounced pill counts were shown to be feasible and reliable measures of adherence in developed settings; and have been further used as part of medication adherence interventions. However, it is not clear whether this method can be implemented successfully in resource-limited settings, where cellular network and mobile phone coverage may be low. Our objective is to describe operational issues surrounding the use of phone-based unannounced pill counts in Lesotho and Ethiopia.METHODS: Phone-based monthly unannounced pill counts, using an adaptation of a standardized protocol from previous US-based studies, were utilized to measure anti-TB and antiretroviral medication adherence in two implementation science studies in resource-limited settings, START (Lesotho) and ENRICH (Ethiopia).RESULTS: In START, 19.6% of calls were completed, with 71.9% of participants reached at least once; majority of failed call attempts were due to phones not being available (54.8%) or because participants were away from the pills (32.7%). In ENRICH, 33.5% of calls were completed, with 86.7% of participants reached at least once; the main reasons for failed call attempts were phones being switched off (31.5%), participants not answering (27.3%), participants' discomfort speaking on the phone (15.4%), and network problems (13.2%). Structural, facility-level, participant-level, and data collection challenges were encountered in these settings.DISCUSSION: Phone-based unannounced pill counts were found to be challenging, and response rates suboptimal. While some of these challenges were specific to local contexts, most of them are generalizable to resource-limited settings. In a research study context, a possible solution to ease operational challenges may be to focus phone-based unannounced pill count efforts on a randomly selected sample from participants who are provided with study phones and rigorously ensure that call attempts are made for these participants. labels: #Adult#Cell Phone#Female#Health Care Rationing#Humans#Male#Medication Adherence"
b'High levels of gamma glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT), as well as fatty liver index (FLI) has been associated with higher cardiovascular disease risk factors in adults. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between gamma-GT, ALT, and fatty liver index FLI levels across a gradient number of ideal cardiovascular health metrics in a representative sample of adults from the Chilean National Health Survey 2009-2010. Data from 1,023 men and 1,449 women (\xe2\x89\xa5 15 years) from the Chilean Health Survey 2009-2010 were analyzed. Ideal cardiovascular health was defined as meeting ideal levels of the following components: four behaviours (smoking, body mass index, physical activity and diet adherence) and three factors (total cholesterol, blood pressure and fasting glucose). Adults were grouped into three categories according to their number of ideal cardiovascular health metrics: ideal (5-7 metrics), intermediate (3-4 metrics), and poor (0-2 metrics). Blood levels of gamma-GT and ALT were measured and the FLI was calculated. A higher number of ideal cardiovascular health index metric was associated with lower gamma-GT, ALT and FLI (p from trend analysis<0.001). Also, adults meeting at least 3-4 metrics were predicted less likely to have prevalence of abnormal levels of gamma-GT and FLI (p<0.001) compared to adults who met only 0-2 metrics. These findings reinforce the usefulness of the ideal cardiovascular health metrics proposed by the American Heart Association as a tool to identify target subjects and promote cardiovascular health in South-American adults. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alanine Transaminase#Cardiovascular System#Chile#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#gamma-Glutamyltransferase'
b'Previous studies have shown that phenotypic modulation of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) plays a pivotal role in human diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reversible differentiation of SMCs remain elusive particularly because cultured SMCs that reproducibly exhibit bidirectional phenotypic modulation have not been established. Here we established an immortalized human bladder SMC line designated as hBS11. Under differentiation-inducing conditions, hBS11 cells underwent smooth muscle differentiation accompanied by the robust expression of smooth muscle differentiation markers and isoform-dependent reorganization of actin bundles. The cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol increased intracellular calcium in differentiated hBS11 cells in an acetylcholine muscarinic receptor-dependent manner. Differentiated hBS11 cells displayed contractile properties depending on the elevation in the levels of intracellular calcium. Depolarization of membrane potential triggered inward sodium current in differentiated hBS11 cells. However, differentiated hBS11 cells lost the differentiated phenotype and resumed mitosis when re-fed with growth medium. Our study provides direct evidence pertaining to the human bladder SMCs being able to retain the capacity of reversible differentiation and that the reorganization of actin bundles is involved in the reinstatement of contractility. Moreover, we have established a human SMC line retaining high proliferating potential without compromising differentiation potential. labels: #Actins#Cell Differentiation#Cell Line, Transformed#Humans#Muscle, Smooth#Urinary Bladder'
b'In multispecies microbial communities, the exchange of signals such as acyl-homoserine lactones (AHL) enables communication within and between species of Gram-negative bacteria. This process, commonly known as quorum sensing, aids in the regulation of genes crucial for the survival of species within heterogeneous populations of microbes. Although signal exchange was studied extensively in well-mixed environments, less is known about the consequences of crosstalk in spatially distributed mixtures of species. Here, signaling dynamics were measured in a spatially distributed system containing multiple strains utilizing homologous signaling systems. Crosstalk between strains containing the lux, las and rhl AHL-receptor circuits was quantified. In a distributed population of microbes, the impact of community composition on spatio-temporal dynamics was characterized and compared to simulation results using a modified reaction-diffusion model. After introducing a single term to account for crosstalk between each pair of signals, the model was able to reproduce the activation patterns observed in experiments. We quantified the robustness of signal propagation in the presence of interacting signals, finding that signaling dynamics are largely robust to interference. The ability of several wild isolates to participate in AHL-mediated signaling was investigated, revealing distinct signatures of crosstalk for each species. Our results present a route to characterize crosstalk between species and predict systems-level signaling dynamics in multispecies communities. labels: #Acyl-Butyrolactones#Bacterial Physiological Phenomena#Bacterial Proteins#Gram-Negative Bacteria#Models, Biological#Quorum Sensing#Signal Transduction'
b'Mutations in the NPHS2 gene, encoding podocin, cause hereditary nephrotic syndrome. The most common podocin mutation, R138Q, is associated with early disease onset and rapid progression to end-stage renal disease. Knock-in mice carrying a R140Q mutation, the mouse analogue of human R138Q, show developmental arrest of podocytes and lethal renal failure at neonatal age. Here we created a conditional podocin knock-in model named NPHS2 R140Q/-, using a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase, which permits to study the effects of the mutation in postnatal life. Within the first week of R140Q hemizygosity induction the animals developed proteinuria, which peaked after 4-5 weeks. Subsequently the animals developed progressive renal failure, with a median survival time of 12 (95% CI: 11-13) weeks. Foot process fusion was observed within one week, progressing to severe and global effacement in the course of the disease. The number of podocytes per glomerulus gradually diminished to 18% compared to healthy controls 12-16 weeks after induction. The fraction of segmentally sclerosed glomeruli was 25%, 85% and 97% at 2, 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. Severe tubulointerstitial fibrosis was present at later disease stage and was correlated quantitatively with the level of proteinuria at early disease stages. While R140Q podocin mRNA expression was elevated, protein abundance was reduced by more than 50% within one week following induction. Whereas miRNA21 expression persistently increased during the first 4 weeks, miRNA-193a expression peaked 2 weeks after induction. In conclusion, the inducible R140Q-podocin mouse model is an auspicious model of the most common genetic cause of human nephrotic syndrome, with a spontaneous disease course strongly reminiscent of the human disorder. This model constitutes a valuable tool to test the efficacy of novel pharmacological interventions aimed to improve podocyte function and viability and attenuate proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis and progressive renal failure. labels: #Animals#Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Mutation#Nephrotic Syndrome'
b'Chronic wasting disease (CWD) is a fatal transmissible spongiform encephalopathy affecting white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), Rocky Mountain elk (Cervus elaphus nelsoni), and moose (Alces alces shirasi) in North America. In southeastern Wyoming average annual CWD prevalence in mule deer exceeds 20% and appears to contribute to regional population declines. We determined the effect of CWD on mule deer demography using age-specific, female-only, CWD transition matrix models to estimate the population growth rate (\xce\xbb). Mule deer were captured from 2010-2014 in southern Converse County Wyoming, USA. Captured adult (\xe2\x89\xa5 1.5 years old) deer were tested ante-mortem for CWD using tonsil biopsies and monitored using radio telemetry. Mean annual survival rates of CWD-negative and CWD-positive deer were 0.76 and 0.32, respectively. Pregnancy and fawn recruitment were not observed to be influenced by CWD. We estimated \xce\xbb = 0.79, indicating an annual population decline of 21% under current CWD prevalence levels. A model derived from the demography of only CWD-negative individuals yielded; \xce\xbb = 1.00, indicating a stable population if CWD were absent. These findings support CWD as a significant contributor to mule deer population decline. Chronic wasting disease is difficult or impossible to eradicate with current tools, given significant environmental contamination, and at present our best recommendation for control of this disease is to minimize spread to new areas and na\xc3\xafve cervid populations. labels: #Animals#Deer#Endemic Diseases#Female#Male#Population Density#Pregnancy#Prevalence#Proportional Hazards Models#Wasting Disease, Chronic#Wyoming'
b"Height to crown base (HCB) of a tree is an important variable often included as a predictor in various forest models that serve as the fundamental tools for decision-making in forestry. We developed spatially explicit and spatially inexplicit mixed-effects HCB models using measurements from a total 19,404 trees of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.) and European beech (Fagus sylvatica L.) on the permanent sample plots that are located across the Czech Republic. Variables describing site quality, stand density or competition, and species mixing effects were included into the HCB model with use of dominant height (HDOM), basal area of trees larger in diameters than a subject tree (BAL- spatially inexplicit measure) or Hegyi's competition index (HCI-spatially explicit measure), and basal area proportion of a species of interest (BAPOR), respectively. The parameters describing sample plot-level random effects were included into the HCB model by applying the mixed-effects modelling approach. Among several functional forms evaluated, the logistic function was found most suited to our data. The HCB model for Norway spruce was tested against the data originated from different inventory designs, but model for European beech was tested using partitioned dataset (a part of the main dataset). The variance heteroscedasticity in the residuals was substantially reduced through inclusion of a power variance function into the HCB model. The results showed that spatially explicit model described significantly a larger part of the HCB variations [R2adj = 0.86 (spruce), 0.85 (beech)] than its spatially inexplicit counterpart [R2adj = 0.84 (spruce), 0.83 (beech)]. The HCB increased with increasing competitive interactions described by tree-centered competition measure: BAL or HCI, and species mixing effects described by BAPOR. A test of the mixed-effects HCB model with the random effects estimated using at least four trees per sample plot in the validation data confirmed that the model was precise enough for the prediction of HCB for a range of site quality, tree size, stand density, and stand structure. We therefore recommend measuring of HCB on four randomly selected trees of a species of interest on each sample plot for localizing the mixed-effects model and predicting HCB of the remaining trees on the plot. Growth simulations can be made from the data that lack the values for either crown ratio or HCB using the HCB models. labels: #Fagus#Models, Biological#Picea"
b'We propose a novel method for multiple clustering, which is useful for analysis of high-dimensional data containing heterogeneous types of features. Our method is based on nonparametric Bayesian mixture models in which features are automatically partitioned (into views) for each clustering solution. This feature partition works as feature selection for a particular clustering solution, which screens out irrelevant features. To make our method applicable to high-dimensional data, a co-clustering structure is newly introduced for each view. Further, the outstanding novelty of our method is that we simultaneously model different distribution families, such as Gaussian, Poisson, and multinomial distributions in each cluster block, which widens areas of application to real data. We apply the proposed method to synthetic and real data, and show that our method outperforms other multiple clustering methods both in recovering true cluster structures and in computation time. Finally, we apply our method to a depression dataset with no true cluster structure available, from which useful inferences are drawn about possible clustering structures of the data. labels: #Cluster Analysis#Likelihood Functions#Models, Theoretical'
b'Loss of muscle mass and strength represents one of the most significant contributors to impaired function in older adults. Convenient and non-invasive biomarkers are needed that can readily identify and track age-related muscle change. Previous data has suggested electrical impedance myography (EIM) has the potential to serve in this capacity. In this study we investigated how changes in EIM compared with other standard measures of muscle structure and function in aged compared with young mice. A total of 19 male mice aged approximately 25 months and 19 male mice aged 3 months underwent surface multifrequency EIM of the right gastrocnemius muscle using standard methods. Fore and hind limb grip strength, sciatic compound muscle action potential amplitude, and in-situ force of the gastrocnemius were also measured; after sacrifice, gastrocnemius myofiber size was assessed using standard histology. Spearman correlation coefficients were calculated to investigate the association between EIM and muscle characteristics. EIM in aged animals demonstrated significantly lower 50 kHz impedance phase (p<0.001) and reactance (p<0.01) values as well as reduced multifrequency parameters. In contrast, absolute gastrocnemius muscle mass was no different between young and aged mice (p = 0.58) but was reduced in aged mice after normalization to body mass (p<0.001). Median myofiber size in the aged mice was not different from that of young mice (p = 0.72). Aged mice showed reduced muscle function on the basis of normalized fore limb (p<0.001) and normalized hind limb (p<0.001) grip strength, as well as normalized gastrocnemius twitch (p<0.001) and normalized maximal isometric force (p<0.001). Sciatic compound muscle action potential amplitude was reduced in aged mice (p<0.05). EIM parameters showed good correlation with reduced standard physiological and electrophysiological measures of muscle health. Our study suggests that EIM is sensitive to aged-related muscle change and may represent a convenient and valuable method of quantifying loss of muscle health. labels: #Action Potentials#Animals#Body Weight#Electric Impedance#Female#Male#Mice#Muscle, Skeletal#Myography#Organ Size'
b'The Mycobacterium tuberculosis protein encoded by the Rv1986 gene is a target for memory T cells in patients with tuberculosis, and shows strong similarities to a lysine exporter LysE of Corynebacterium glutamicum. During infection, the pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis adapts its metabolism to environmental changes. In this study, we found that the expression of Rv1986 is controlled by Rv1985c. Rv1985c is located directly upstream of Rv1986 with an overlapping promoter region between both genes. Semiquantitative reverse transcription PCR using an isogenic mutant of Mycobacterium tuberculosis lacking Rv1985c showed that in the presence of lysine, Rv1985c protein positively upregulated the expression of Rv1986. RNA sequencing revealed the transcription start points for both transcripts and overlapping promoters. An inverted repeat in the center of the intergenic region was identified, and binding of Rv1985c protein to the intergenic region was confirmed by electrophoretic mobility shift assays. Whole transcriptome expression analysis and RNAsequencing showed downregulated transcription of ppsBCD in the Rv1985c-mutant compared to the wild type strain. Taken together, our findings characterize the regulatory network of Rv1985c in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Due to their similarity of an orthologous gene pair in Corynebacterium glutamicum, we suggest to rename Rv1985c to lysG(Mt), and Rv1986 to lysE(Mt). labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Bacterial Proteins#Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Genes, Bacterial#Lysine#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Trans-Activators#Transcriptome'
b'OBJECTIVE: Having experienced 2-3 births is associated with reduced mortality versus women with<2 or \xe2\x89\xa54 births. The effect of 2-3 births on lifespan may be associated with delayed cellular aging. We hypothesized telomere length, a marker of cellular aging, would be longer in women who had 2-3 pregnancies.METHODS: Leukocyte telomere length was measured using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction in 620 women in CARDIA at the year 15 and 20 exams, expressed as the ratio of telomere repeat copy number to single-copy gene copy number (T/S). Number of pregnancies at the time of telomere length measurement was obtained (mean age = 41\xc2\xb10.1 years, average gravidity = 2.64\xc2\xb10.1 pregnancies). Participants were divided into 4 groups by number of pregnancies: 0, 1, 2-3, and \xe2\x89\xa54, to test for differences in telomere length by gravidity group.RESULTS: The mean and SD for telomere length was 0.98 \xc2\xb1 0.20 T/S in the whole cohort. There were no differences in mean telomere length between groups; 0.98\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with 0 pregnancies, 1.01\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with 1 pregnancy, 0.97\xc2\xb10.01 T/S in women with 2-3 pregnancies, and 0.99\xc2\xb10.02 T/S in women with \xe2\x89\xa54 pregnancies (p = 0.51). We defined high-risk (shorter) telomere length as \xe2\x89\xa425th percentile, and low-risk (longer) telomere length as \xe2\x89\xa575 percentile. There were no differences in the prevalence of high-risk or low-risk telomere length between gravidity groups.CONCLUSIONS: Gravidity was not associated with telomere length in early middle age; the protective association of 2-3 births may act through other mechanisms. labels: #Adult#Cohort Studies#Coronary Artery Disease#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Gravidity#Humans#Middle Aged#Telomere#Young Adult'
b'The role of extrinsic mortality in shaping life histories is poorly understood. However, substantial evidence suggests that extrinsic mortality interacts with density-dependence in crucial ways. We develop a model combining Evolutionarily Stable Strategies with a projection matrix that allows resource allocation to growth, tissue repairs, and reproduction. Our model examines three cases, with density-dependence acting on: (i) mortality, (ii) fecundity, and (iii) production rate. We demonstrate that density-independent extrinsic mortality influences the rate of aging, age at maturity, growth rate, and adult size provided that density-dependence acts on fertility or juvenile mortality. However, density-independent extrinsic mortality has no effect on these life history traits when density-dependence acts on survival. We show that extrinsic mortality interacts with density-dependence via a compensation mechanism: the higher the extrinsic mortality the lower the strength of density-dependence. However, this compensation fully offsets the effect of extrinsic mortality only if density-dependence acts on survival independently of age. Both the age-pattern and the type of density-dependence are crucial for shaping life history traits. labels: #Life Cycle Stages#Models, Biological#Mortality#Resource Allocation'
b'OBJECTIVES: Intrahepatic (ICC) and extrahepatic (ECC) cholangiocarcinomas are rare tumors that arise from the epithelial cells of the bile ducts, and the etiology of both cancer types is poorly understood. Thus, we utilized the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare resource to examine risk factors and novel preexisting medical conditions that may be associated with these cancer types.METHODS: Between 2000 and 2011, 2,092 ICC and 2,981 ECC cases and 323,615 controls were identified using the SEER-Medicare database. Logistic regression was used to calculate adjusted odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI).RESULTS: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease was associated with approximately 3-fold increased risks of ICC (OR = 3.52, 95% CI: 2.87-4.32) and ECC (OR = 2.93, 95% CI: 2.42-3.55). Other metabolic conditions, including obesity and type 2 diabetes, were also associated with increased risks of both cancer types. Smoking was associated with a 46% and 77% increased ICC and ECC risk, respectively. Several autoimmune/inflammatory conditions, including type 1 diabetes and gout, were associated with increased risks of ICC/ECC. As anticipated, viral hepatitis, alcohol-related disorders, and bile duct conditions were associated with both cancer types. However, thyrotoxicosis and hemochromatosis were associated with an increased risk of ICC but not ECC, but did not remain significantly associated after Bonferroni correction.CONCLUSIONS: In this study, risk factors for ICC and ECC were similar, with the exceptions of thyrotoxicosis and hemochromatosis. Notably, metabolic conditions were associated with both cancer types. As metabolic conditions are increasing in prevalence, these could be increasingly important risk factors for both types of cholangiocarcinoma. labels: #Bile Duct Neoplasms#Cholangiocarcinoma#Humans#Medicare#Risk Factors#SEER Program#United States'
b"BACKGROUND: The emergence, accumulation and spread of HIV-1 drug resistance strains in Africa could compromise the effectiveness of HIV treatment programs. This study was aimed at determining the incidence of virological failure and acquired drug resistance mutations overtime and identifying the most common mutational pathways of resistance in a well characterized HIV-1C infected Ethiopian cohort.METHODS: A total of 320 patients (220 ART na\xc3\xafve and 100 on first lines ART) were included and followed. ART initiation and patients' monitoring was based on the WHO clinical and immunological parameters. HIV viral load measurement and genotypic drug resistance testing were done at baseline (T0-2008) and after on average at a median time of 30 months on ART at three time points (T1-2011, T2-2013, T3-2015).FINDINGS: The incidence of virological failure has increased overtime from 11 at T1 to 17 at T2 and then to 30% at T3. At all time point's almost all of the patients with virological failure and accumulated drug resistance mutations had not met the WHO clinical and immunologic failure criteria and continued the failing regimen. A steep increase in the incidence and accumulation of major acquired NRTI and NNRTI drug resistance mutations have been observed (from 40% at T1 to 64% at T2 and then to 66% at T3). The most frequent NRTIs drug resistance associated mutations are mainly the lamivudine-induced mutation M184V which was detected in 4 patients at T1 and showed a 2 fold increase in the following time points (T2: n = 8) and at (T3: n = 12) and the thymidine analogue mutations (such as D67N, K70R and K219E) which were not-detected at baseline T0 and T1 but were increased progressively to 10 at T2 and to 17 at T3. The most frequent NNRTIs associated mutations were K103N, V106M and Y188C.CONCLUSIONS: An upward trend in the incidence of virological failure and accumulation of NRTI and NNRTI associated acquired antiretroviral drug resistance mutations are observed. The data suggest the need for virological monitoring, resistance testing for early detection of failure and access for TDF and PI containing drugs. Population-level and patient targeted interventions to prevent the spread of mutant variants is warranted. labels: #Anti-HIV Agents#Cohort Studies#Drug Resistance, Viral#Ethiopia#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Mutation#Viral Load"
b'PURPOSE: This study introduces a novel way to accurately assess gait quality. This new method called Multifeature Gait Score (MGS) is based on the computation of multiple parameters characterizing six aspects of gait (temporal, amplitude, variability, regularity, symmetry and complexity) quantified with one inertial sensor. According to the aspects described, parameters were aggregated into partial scores to indicate the altered aspect in the case of abnormal patterns. In order to evaluate the overall gait quality, partial scores were averaged to a global score.METHODS: The MGS was computed for 3 groups namely: healthy adult (10 subjects), sedentary elderly (11 subjects) and active elderly (20 subjects). Data were gathered from an inertial sensor located at the lumbar region during two sessions of 12m walking.RESULTS: The results based on ANOVA and Tukey tests showed that the partial scores with the exception of those which describe the symmetry aspect were able to discriminate between groups (p<0.05). This significant difference was also confirmed by the global score which shows a significantly lower value for the sedentary elderly group (3.58 \xc2\xb11.15) compared to the healthy adults (5.19 \xc2\xb10.84) and active elderly (4.82 \xc2\xb11.26). In addition, the intersession repeatability of the elaborated global score was excellent (ICC = 0.93, % SEM = 10.81).CONCLUSION: The results obtained support the reliability and the relevance of the MGS as a novel method to characterize gait quality. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Case-Control Studies#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Principal Component Analysis#Sedentary Lifestyle'
b'Prediction-error signals consistent with formal models of "reinforcement learning" (RL) have repeatedly been found within dopaminergic nuclei of the midbrain and dopaminoceptive areas of the striatum. However, the precise form of the RL algorithms implemented in the human brain is not yet well determined. Here, we created a novel paradigm optimized to dissociate the subtypes of reward-prediction errors that function as the key computational signatures of two distinct classes of RL models-namely, "actor/critic" models and action-value-learning models (e.g., the Q-learning model). The state-value-prediction error (SVPE), which is independent of actions, is a hallmark of the actor/critic architecture, whereas the action-value-prediction error (AVPE) is the distinguishing feature of action-value-learning algorithms. To test for the presence of these prediction-error signals in the brain, we scanned human participants with a high-resolution functional magnetic-resonance imaging (fMRI) protocol optimized to enable measurement of neural activity in the dopaminergic midbrain as well as the striatal areas to which it projects. In keeping with the actor/critic model, the SVPE signal was detected in the substantia nigra. The SVPE was also clearly present in both the ventral striatum and the dorsal striatum. However, alongside these purely state-value-based computations we also found evidence for AVPE signals throughout the striatum. These high-resolution fMRI findings suggest that model-free aspects of reward learning in humans can be explained algorithmically with RL in terms of an actor/critic mechanism operating in parallel with a system for more direct action-value learning. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Brain Mapping#Computer Simulation#Corpus Striatum#Humans#Image Enhancement#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Mental Recall#Mesencephalon#Models, Neurological#Nerve Net#Neuronal Plasticity#Reinforcement (Psychology)'
b'BACKGROUND: Measurement of Emergency Obstetric Care capability is common, and measurement of newborn and overall routine childbirth care has begun in recent years. These assessments of facility capabilities can be used to identify geographic inequalities in access to functional health services and to monitor improvements over time. This paper develops an approach for monitoring the childbirth environment that accounts for the delivery caseload of the facility.METHODS: We used data from the Kenya Service Provision Assessment to examine facility capability to provide quality childbirth care, including infrastructure, routine maternal and newborn care, and emergency obstetric and newborn care. A facility was considered capable of providing a function if necessary tracer items were present and, for emergency functions, if the function had been performed in the previous three months. We weighted facility capability by delivery caseload, and compared results with those generated using traditional "survey weights".RESULTS: Of the 403 facilities providing childbirth care, the proportion meeting criteria for capability were: 13% for general infrastructure, 6% for basic emergency obstetric care, 3% for basic emergency newborn care, 13% and 11% for routine maternal and newborn care, respectively. When the new caseload weights accounting for delivery volume were applied, capability improved and the proportions of deliveries occurring in a facility meeting capability criteria were: 51% for general infrastructure, 46% for basic emergency obstetric care, 12% for basic emergency newborn care, 36% and 18% for routine maternal and newborn care, respectively. This is because most of the caseload was in hospitals, which generally had better capability. Despite these findings, fewer than 2% of deliveries occurred in a facility capable of providing all functions.CONCLUSION: Reporting on the percentage of facilities capable of providing certain functions misrepresents the capacity to provide care at the national level. Delivery caseload weights allow adjustment for patient volume, and shift the denominator of measurement from facilities to individual deliveries, leading to a better representation of the context in which facility births take place. These methods could lead to more standardized national datasets, enhancing their ability to inform policy at a national and international level. labels: #Delivery, Obstetric#Emergency Medical Services#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Maternal Health Services#Pregnancy'
b'Feline panleukopenia is a common contagious disease with high morbidity and mortality. At present, feline parvovirus (FPV) and canine parvovirus (CPV) variants are the pathogens of feline panleukopenia. Many studies have shown that miRNAs are involved in virus-host interactions. Nevertheless, miRNA expression profiling of FPV (original virus) or CPV-2b (new virus) in cats has not been reported. To investigate these profiles, three 10-week-old cats were orally inoculated with 106 TCID50 of the viruses (FPV and CPV-2b), and the jejunums of one cat in each group were sectioned for miRNA sequencing at 5 days post-inoculation (dpi). This study is the first attempt to use miRNA analysis to understand the molecular basis of FPV and CPV infection in cats. The miRNA expression profiles of the jejunums of cats infected with FPV and CPV were obtained, and a subset of miRNAs was validated by real-time qPCR. The results show that a variety of metabolism-related pathways, cytokine- and pathogen-host interaction-related pathways, and pathology- and cellar structure-related pathways, as well as others, were affected. Specifically, the JAK-STAT signaling pathway, which is critical for cytokines and growth factors, was enriched. This description of the miRNAs involved in regulating FPV and CPV infection in vivo provides further insight into the mechanisms of viral infection and adaptation and might provide an alternative antiviral strategy for disease control and prevention. labels: #Animals#Cat Diseases#Cats#Dog Diseases#Dogs#MicroRNAs#Parvoviridae Infections#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'We introduce and use Wavelet Imaging on Multiple Scales (WIMS) as an improvement to fluorescence correlation spectroscopy to measure physical processes and features that occur across multiple length scales. In this study, wavelet transforms of cell images are used to characterize molecular dynamics at the cellular and subcellular levels (i.e. focal adhesions). We show the usefulness of the technique by applying WIMS to an image time series of a migrating osteosarcoma cell expressing fluorescently labelled adhesion proteins, which allows us to characterize different components of the cell ranging from optical resolution scale through to focal adhesion and whole cell size scales. Using WIMS we measured focal adhesion numbers, orientation and cell boundary velocities for retraction and protrusion. We also determine the internal dynamics of individual focal adhesions undergoing assembly, disassembly or elongation. Thus confirming as previously shown, WIMS reveals that the number of adhesions and the area of the protruding region of the cell are strongly correlated, establishing a correlation between protrusion size and adhesion dynamics. We also apply this technique to characterize the behavior of adhesions, actin and myosin in Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing a mutant form of myosin IIB (1935D) that displays decreased filament stability and impairs front-back cell polarity. We find separate populations of actin and myosin at each adhesion pole for both the mutant and wild type form. However, we find these populations move rapidly inwards toward one another in the mutant case in contrast to the cells that express wild type myosin IIB where those populations remain stationary. Results obtained with these two systems demonstrate how WIMS has the potential to reveal novel correlations between chosen parameters that belong to different scales. labels: #Actomyosin#Animals#CHO Cells#Cricetinae#Cricetulus#Focal Adhesions#Microscopy, Fluorescence#Point Mutation#Protein Stability#Wavelet Analysis'
b'Diacerein seems to improve metabolic control and reduce inflammatory marker levels in individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (Type 2 DM), but for participants with chronic kidney disease (CKD) its effect is unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of diacerein vs. placebo on urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (ACR), glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and inflammatory cytokines in type 2 DM participants with CKD. Blood pressure (BP) and metabolic control were secondary outcomes. This randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel trial of adjuvant treatment of type 2 DM with diacerein enrolled seventy-two participants with CKD, aged 30-80 years, with glycated hemoglobin levels from 53-97 mmol/mol (7.0-11.0%), receiving angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin receptor blockers and antidiabetic agents. Participants randomized to diacerein or placebo were followed-up up to 90 days. Both groups had a marked reduction in ACR, but there was no effect on glomerular filtration rate. While the diacerein group had reduced TNF-\xce\xb1 levels at the 75th percentile with a borderline significance (P = 0.05), there were no changes in the IL levels at the 75th percentile. Diacerein prevented the increase in blood glucose to the level observed in the placebo group (P = 0.04), improving metabolic control by 74%, reducing 24-hour diastolic BP, nighttime systolic and diastolic BP compared to the placebo group. In conclusion, among patients with type 2 DM and CKD, diacerein does not have an effect on ACR or GFR, but slows metabolic control deterioration and is associated with lower nighttime systolic and diastolic blood pressure.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Brazilian Clinical Trials Registry (Registro Brasileiro de Ensaios Clinicos; ReBeC) U1111-1156-0255. labels: #Aged#Anthraquinones#Cytokines#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Inflammation Mediators#Kidney#Kidney Failure, Chronic#Male#Middle Aged#Placebos'
b'The production of lignocellulosic-derived biofuels is a highly promising source of alternative energy, but it has been constrained by the lack of a microbial platform capable to efficiently degrade this recalcitrant material and cope with by-products that can be toxic to cells. Species that naturally grow in environments where carbon is mainly available as lignin are promising for finding new ways of removing the lignin that protects cellulose for improved conversion of lignin to fuel precursors. Enterobacter lignolyticus SCF1 is a facultative anaerobic Gammaproteobacteria isolated from tropical rain forest soil collected in El Yunque forest, Puerto Rico under anoxic growth conditions with lignin as sole carbon source. Whole transcriptome analysis of SCF1 during E.lignolyticus SCF1 lignin degradation was conducted on cells grown in the presence (0.1%, w/w) and the absence of lignin, where samples were taken at three different times during growth, beginning of exponential phase, mid-exponential phase and beginning of stationary phase. Lignin-amended cultures achieved twice the cell biomass as unamended cultures over three days, and in this time degraded 60% of lignin. Transcripts in early exponential phase reflected this accelerated growth. A complement of laccases, aryl-alcohol dehydrogenases, and peroxidases were most up-regulated in lignin amended conditions in mid-exponential and early stationary phases compared to unamended growth. The association of hydrogen production by way of the formate hydrogenlyase complex with lignin degradation suggests a possible value added to lignin degradation in the future. labels: #Culture Media#Enterobacter#Lignin#RNA, Bacterial#Sequence Analysis, RNA'
b'Importance: Insulin pump therapy may improve metabolic control in young patients with type 1 diabetes, but the association with short-term diabetes complications is unclear.Objective: To determine whether rates of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis are lower with insulin pump therapy compared with insulin injection therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes.Design, Setting, and Participants: Population-based cohort study conducted between January 2011 and December 2015 in 446 diabetes centers participating in the Diabetes Prospective Follow-up Initiative in Germany, Austria, and Luxembourg. Patients with type 1 diabetes younger than 20 years and diabetes duration of more than 1 year were identified. Propensity score matching and inverse probability of treatment weighting analyses with age, sex, diabetes duration, migration background (defined as place of birth outside of Germany or Austria), body mass index, and glycated hemoglobin as covariates were used to account for relevant confounders.Exposures: Type 1 diabetes treated with insulin pump therapy or with multiple (\xe2\x89\xa54) daily insulin injections.Main Outcomes and Measures: Primary outcomes were rates of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis during the most recent treatment year. Secondary outcomes included glycated hemoglobin levels, insulin dose, and body mass index.Results: Of 30\xe2\x80\xaf579 patients (mean age, 14.1 years [SD, 4.0]; 53% male), 14\xe2\x80\xaf119 used pump therapy (median duration, 3.7 years) and 16\xe2\x80\xaf460 used insulin injections (median duration, 3.6 years). Patients using pump therapy (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x899814) were matched with 9814 patients using injection therapy. Pump therapy, compared with injection therapy, was associated with lower rates of severe hypoglycemia (9.55 vs 13.97 per 100 patient-years; difference, -4.42 [95% CI, -6.15 to -2.69]; P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001) and diabetic ketoacidosis (3.64 vs 4.26 per 100 patient-years; difference, -0.63 [95% CI, -1.24 to -0.02]; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.04). Glycated hemoglobin levels were lower with pump therapy than with injection therapy (8.04% vs 8.22%; difference, -0.18 [95% CI, -0.22 to -0.13], P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Total daily insulin doses were lower for pump therapy compared with injection therapy (0.84 U/kg vs 0.98 U/kg; difference, -0.14 [-0.15 to -0.13], P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). There was no significant difference in body mass index between both treatment regimens. Similar results were obtained after propensity score inverse probability of treatment weighting analyses in the entire cohort.Conclusions and Relevance: Among young patients with type 1 diabetes, insulin pump therapy, compared with insulin injection therapy, was associated with lower risks of severe hypoglycemia and diabetic ketoacidosis and with better glycemic control during the most recent year of therapy. These findings provide evidence for improved clinical outcomes associated with insulin pump therapy compared with injection therapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with type 1 diabetes. labels: #Adolescent#Blood Glucose#Child#Child, Preschool#Cohort Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1#Diabetic Ketoacidosis#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Infant#Injections#Insulin#Insulin Infusion Systems#Male#Regression Analysis#Young Adult'
b'Importance: Despite lack of evidence of their utility, biomarkers of ovarian reserve are being promoted as potential markers of reproductive potential.Objective: To determine the associations between biomarkers of ovarian reserve and reproductive potential among women of late reproductive age.Design, Setting, and Participants: Prospective time-to-pregnancy cohort study (2008 to date of last follow-up in March 2016) of women (N\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89981) aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less, recruited from the community in the Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina, area.Exposures: Early-follicular-phase serum level of antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone (AMH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and inhibin B and urinary level of FSH.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary outcomes were the cumulative probability of conception by 6 and 12 cycles of attempt and relative fecundability (probability of conception in a given menstrual cycle). Conception was defined as a positive pregnancy test result.Results: A total of 750 women (mean age, 33.3 [SD, 3.2] years; 77% white; 36% overweight or obese) provided a blood and urine sample and were included in the analysis. After adjusting for age, body mass index, race, current smoking status, and recent hormonal contraceptive use, women with low AMH values (<0.7 ng/mL [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8984]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving by 6 cycles of attempt (65%; 95% CI, 50%-75%) compared with women (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89579) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 57%-66%) or by 12 cycles of attempt (84% [95% CI, 70%-91%]vs 75% [95% CI, 70%-79%], respectively). Women with high serum FSH values (>10 mIU/mL [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8983]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (63%; 95% CI, 50%-73%) compared with women (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89654) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 57%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (82% [95% CI, 70%-89%]vs 75% [95% CI, 70%-78%], respectively). Women with high urinary FSH values (>11.5 mIU/mg creatinine [n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8969]) did not have a significantly different predicted probability of conceiving after 6 cycles of attempt (61%; 95% CI, 46%-74%) compared with women (n = 660) with normal values (62%; 95% CI, 58%-66%) or after 12 cycles of attempt (70% [95% CI, 54%-80%]vs 76% [95% CI, 72%-80%], respectively). Inhibin B levels (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89737) were not associated with the probability of conceiving in a given cycle (hazard ratio per 1-pg/mL increase, 0.999; 95% CI, 0.997-1.001).Conclusions and Relevance: Among women aged 30 to 44 years without a history of infertility who had been trying to conceive for 3 months or less, biomarkers indicating diminished ovarian reserve compared with normal ovarian reserve were not associated with reduced fertility. These findings do not support the use of urinary or blood follicle-stimulating hormone tests or antim\xc3\xbcllerian hormone levels to assess natural fertility for women with these characteristics. labels: #Adult#Anti-Mullerian Hormone#Biomarkers#Female#Follicle Stimulating Hormone#Humans#Infertility, Female#Inhibins#Ovarian Reserve#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Prospective Studies#Time-to-Pregnancy'
b"Accurate information regarding prognosis is fundamental to optimal clinical care. The best approach to assess patient prognosis relies on prediction models that simultaneously consider a number of prognostic factors and provide an estimate of patients' absolute risk of an event. Such prediction models should be characterized by adequately discriminating between patients who will have an event and those who will not and by adequate calibration ensuring accurate prediction of absolute risk. This Users' Guide will help clinicians understand the available metrics for assessing discrimination, calibration, and the relative performance of different prediction models. This article complements existing Users' Guides that address the development and validation of prediction models. Together, these guides will help clinicians to make optimal use of existing prediction models. labels: #Area Under Curve#Humans#Models, Statistical#Prognosis#ROC Curve#Risk Assessment#Sensitivity and Specificity"
b"Saccades shift the retina with high-speed motion. In order to compensate for the sudden displacement, the visuomotor system needs to combine saccade-related information and visual metrics. Many neurons in oculomotor but also in visual areas shift their receptive field shortly before the execution of a saccade (Duhamel, Colby,&Goldberg, 1992; Nakamura&Colby, 2002). These shifts supposedly enable the binding of information from before and after the saccade. It is a matter of current debate whether these shifts are merely location based (i.e., involve remapping of abstract spatial coordinates) or also comprise information about visual features. We have recently presented fMRI evidence for a feature-based remapping mechanism in visual areas V3, V4, and VO (Zimmermann, Weidner, Abdollahi,&Fink, 2016). In particular, we found fMRI adaptation in cortical regions representing a stimulus' retinotopic as well as its spatiotopic position. Here, we asked whether spatiotopic adaptation exists independently from retinotopic adaptation and which type of information is behaviorally more relevant after saccade execution. We first adapted at the saccade target location only and found a spatiotopic tilt aftereffect. Then, we simultaneously adapted both the fixation and the saccade target location but with opposite tilt orientations. As a result, adaptation from the fixation location was carried retinotopically to the saccade target position. The opposite tilt orientation at the retinotopic location altered the effects induced by spatiotopic adaptation. More precisely, it cancelled out spatiotopic adaptation at the saccade target location. We conclude that retinotopic and spatiotopic visual adaptation are independent effects. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Orientation#Orientation, Spatial#Photic Stimulation#Retina#Saccades"
b'We measured perceptual judgments of category, material attributes, affordances, and similarity to investigate the perceptual dimensions underlying the visual representation of a broad class of natural dynamic flows (sea waves, smoke, and windblown foliage). The dynamic flows were looped 3-s movies windowed with circular apertures of two sizes to manipulate the level of spatial context. In low levels of spatial context (smaller apertures), human observers\' judgments of material attributes and affordances were inaccurate, with estimates biased toward assumptions that the flows resulted from objects that were rigid, "pick-up-able," and not penetrable. The similarity arrangements showed dynamic flow clusters based partly on material, but dominated by color appearance. In high levels of spatial context (large apertures), observers reliably estimated material categories and their attributes. The similarity arrangements were based primarily on categories related to external, physical causes. Representational similarity analysis suggests that while shallow dimensions like color sometimes account for inferences of physical causes in the low-context condition, shallow dimensions cannot fully account for these inferences in the high-context condition. For the current broad data set of dynamic flows, the perceptual dimensions that best account for the similarity arrangements in the high-context condition are related to the intermolecular bond strength of a material\'s underlying physical structure. These arrangements are also best related to affordances that underlie common motor activities. Thus, the visual system appears to use an efficient strategy to resolve flow ambiguity; vision will sometimes rely on local, image-based, statistical properties that can support reliable inference of external physical causes, and other times it uses deeper causal knowledge to interpret and use flow information to the extent that it is useful for everyday action decisions. labels: #Attention#Form Perception#Humans#Judgment#Motion Perception#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Photic Stimulation'
b'We employed eye-tracking to investigate how performing different tasks on scenes (e.g., intentionally memorizing them, searching for an object, evaluating aesthetic preference) can affect eye movements during encoding and subsequent scene memory. We found that scene memorability decreased after visual search (one incidental encoding task) compared to intentional memorization, and that preference evaluation (another incidental encoding task) produced better memory, similar to the incidental memory boost previously observed for words and faces. By analyzing fixation maps, we found that although fixation map similarity could explain how eye movements during visual search impairs incidental scene memory, it could not explain the incidental memory boost from aesthetic preference evaluation, implying that implicit mechanisms were at play. We conclude that not all incidental encoding tasks should be taken to be similar, as different mechanisms (e.g., explicit or implicit) lead to memory enhancements or decrements for different incidental encoding tasks. labels: #Adult#Eye Movements#Female#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Male#Memory#Pattern Recognition, Visual#Task Performance and Analysis'
b'Clinical Question: Among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who do not achieve optimal glycemic control with insulin monotherapy, is the addition of oral hypoglycemic agents associated with benefits (measured by lowering of hemoglobin A1c) or adverse effects?Bottom Line: Adding a sulfonylurea to insulin was associated with more hypoglycemic events compared with insulin alone, but this association was not observed for metformin. Adding a sulfonylurea or metformin to insulin was associated with a decrease in hemoglobin A1c of approximately 1.0%. labels: #Administration, Oral#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Drug Therapy, Combination#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin#Metformin#Review Literature as Topic#Sulfonylurea Compounds'
b'Importance: Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are effective therapies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and are all currently available as an injection.Objectives: To compare the effects of oral semaglutide with placebo (primary) and open-label subcutaneous semaglutide (secondary) on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.Design, Setting, and Patients: Phase 2, randomized, parallel-group, dosage-finding, 26-week trial with 5-week follow-up at 100 sites (hospital clinics, general practices, and clinical research centers) in 14 countries conducted between December 2013 and December 2014. Of 1106 participants assessed, 632 with type 2 diabetes and insufficient glycemic control using diet and exercise alone or a stable dose of metformin were randomized. Randomization was stratified by metformin use.Interventions: Once-daily oral semaglutide of 2.5 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 5 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 10 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 20 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 40-mg 4-week dose escalation (standard escalation; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8971), 40-mg 8-week dose escalation (slow escalation; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), 40-mg 2-week dose escalation (fast escalation, n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970), oral placebo (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8971; double-blind) or once-weekly subcutaneous semaglutide of 1.0 mg (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8970) for 26 weeks.Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary end point was change in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) from baseline to week 26. Secondary end points included change from baseline in body weight and adverse events.Results: Baseline characteristics were comparable across treatment groups. Of the 632 randomized patients (mean age, 57.1 years [SD, 10.6]; men, 395 (62.7%); diabetes duration, 6.3 years [SD, 5.2]; body weight, 92.3 kg [SD, 16.8]; BMI, 31.7 [SD, 4.3]), 583 (92%) completed the trial. Mean change in HbA1c level from baseline to week 26 decreased with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -0.7% to -1.9%) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-1.9%) and placebo (-0.3%); oral semaglutide reductions were significant vs placebo (dosage-dependent estimated treatment difference [ETD] range for oral semaglutide vs placebo, -0.4% to -1.6%; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.01 for 2.5 mg,<.001 for all other dosages). Reductions in body weight were greater with oral semaglutide (dosage-dependent range, -2.1 kg to -6.9 kg) and subcutaneous semaglutide (-6.4 kg) vs placebo (-1.2 kg), and significant for oral semaglutide dosages of 10 mg or more vs placebo (dosage-dependent ETD range, -0.9 to -5.7 kg; P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Adverse events were reported by 63% to 86% (371 of 490 patients) in the oral semaglutide groups, 81% (56 of 69 patients) in the subcutaneous semaglutide group, and 68% (48 of 71 patients) in the placebo group; mild to moderate gastrointestinal events were most common.Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients with type 2 diabetes, oral semaglutide resulted in better glycemic control than placebo over 26 weeks. These findings support phase 3 studies to assess longer-term and clinical outcomes, as well as safety.Trial Registration: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT01923181. labels: #Administration, Oral#Blood Glucose#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Glucagon-Like Peptides#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Hypoglycemia#Hypoglycemic Agents#Injections, Subcutaneous#Male#Middle Aged#Nausea'
b'Importance: Transfusion of red blood cells from female donors has been associated with increased mortality in male recipients.Objective: To quantify the association between red blood cell transfusion from female donors with and without a history of pregnancy and mortality of red blood cell recipients.Design, Setting, and Participants: Retrospective cohort study of first-time transfusion recipients at 6 major Dutch hospitals enrolled from May 30, 2005, to September 1, 2015; the final follow-up date was September 1, 2015. The primary analysis was the no-donor-mixture cohort (ie, either all red blood cell transfusions exclusively from male donors, or all exclusively from female donors without a history of pregnancy, or all exclusively from female donors with a history of pregnancy). The association between mortality and exposure to transfusions from ever-pregnant or never-pregnant female donors was analyzed using life tables and time-varying Cox proportional hazards models.Exposures: Red blood cell transfusions from ever-pregnant or never-pregnant female donors, compared with red blood cell transfusions from male donors.Main Outcomes and Measures: All-cause mortality during follow-up.Results: The cohort for the primary analyses consisted of 31\xe2\x80\xaf118 patients (median age, 65 [interquartile range, 42-77] years; 52% female) who received 59\xe2\x80\xaf320 red blood cell transfusions exclusively from 1 of 3 types of donors (88% male; 6% ever-pregnant female; and 6% never-pregnant female). The number of deaths in this cohort was 3969 (13% mortality). For male recipients of red blood cell transfusions, all-cause mortality rates after a red blood cell transfusion from an ever-pregnant female donor vs male donor were 101 vs 80 deaths per 1000 person-years (time-dependent "per transfusion" hazard ratio [HR]for death, 1.13 [95% CI, 1.01-1.26]). For receipt of transfusion from a never-pregnant female donor vs male donor, mortality rates were 78 vs 80 deaths per 1000 person-years (HR, 0.93 [95% CI, 0.81-1.06]). Among female recipients of red blood cell transfusions, mortality rates for an ever-pregnant female donor vs male donor were 74 vs 62 per 1000 person-years (HR, 0.99 [95% CI, 0.87 to 1.13]); for a never-pregnant female donor vs male donor, mortality rates were 74 vs 62 per 1000 person-years (HR, 1.01 [95% CI, 0.88-1.15]).Conclusions and Relevance: Among patients who received red blood cell transfusions, receipt of a transfusion from an ever-pregnant female donor, compared with a male donor, was associated with increased all-cause mortality among male recipients but not among female recipients. Transfusions from never-pregnant female donors were not associated with increased mortality among male or female recipients. Further research is needed to replicate these findings, determine their clinical significance, and identify the underlying mechanism. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Blood Donors#Child#Child, Preschool#Erythrocyte Transfusion#Erythrocytes#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Male#Middle Aged#Pregnancy#Proportional Hazards Models#Retrospective Studies#Sex Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: To determine the constituents and origin of the yellow pigment in surgically removed lamellar hole-associated epiretinal proliferation (LHEP) in patients with lamellar macular hole (LMH).Methods: This prospective case series comprised nine eyes with LMH in patients aged 41 to 83 years. The presence of LHEP was confirmed by preoperative optical coherence tomography; the distribution of macular pigment was observed by two-wavelength fundus autofluorescence technique before and after surgery. The subjects underwent a 25-gauge vitrectomy, and the surgically removed epiretinal membranous tissue was fixed with formalin. The specimens were examined using resonance Raman microscopy, and paraffin sections were stained with antiglial fibrillary acidic protein.Results: Seven cases presented with LHEP, and the presence of yellow pigment was confirmed using an operating microscope. Carotenoid-specific Raman signals with three major Raman peaks could be identified in the specimens with LHEP. These specimens were positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein staining. Using the fundus autofluorescence technique, a central defect in the distribution of the macular pigment was noted in the exact area of the lamellar hole. This type of defect was no longer visible after surgical repair of the lamellar hole.Conclusions: The constituents of the yellow pigment in the removed LHEP were carotenoids that typically originate from the macular xanthophyll pigments at the fovea. Since LHEP is reported to be composed of M\xc3\xbcller cells, we hypothesize that xanthophyll carotenoids at the fovea are contained in the M\xc3\xbcller cells. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomarkers#Epiretinal Membrane#Female#Fundus Oculi#Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein#Humans#Macular Pigment#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Retinal Perforations#Spectrum Analysis, Raman#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Vitrectomy#Xanthophylls'
b'Purpose: The clearer divergence in spectral sensitivity between native rod and human L-cone (L*-cone) opsins in the transgenic Opn1lwLIAIS mouse (LIAIS) allows normal visual processes mediated by these photoreceptor subtypes to be isolated effectively using the silent substitution technique. The objective of this study was to further characterize the influence of mean luminance and temporal frequency on the functional properties of signals originating in each photoreceptor separately and independently of adaptation state in LIAIS mice.Methods: Electroretinographic (ERG) recordings to sine-wave rod and L*-cone modulation at different mean luminances (0.1-130.0 cd/m2) and temporal frequencies (6-26 Hz) were examined in anesthetized LIAIS (N = 17) and C57Bl/6 mice (N = 8).Results: We report maximum rod-driven response with 8-Hz modulation at 0.1 to 0.5 cd/m2, which was almost four times larger than maximum cone-driven response at 8 Hz, 21.5 to 130 cd/m2. Over these optimal luminances, both rod- and cone-driven response amplitudes exhibited low-pass functions with similar frequency resolution limits, albeit their distinct luminance sensitivities. There were, however, two distinguishing features: (1) the frequency-dependent amplitude decrease of rod-driven responses was more profound, and (2) linear relationships describing rod-driven response phases as a function of stimulus frequency were steeper.Conclusions: Employing the silent substitution method with stimuli of appropriate luminance on the LIAIS mouse (as on human observers) increases the specificity, robustness, and scope to which photoreceptor-driven responses can be reliably assayed compared to the standard photoreceptor isolation methods. labels: #Animals#Color Vision#Cone Opsins#Electroretinography#Female#Male#Mesopic Vision#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Photic Stimulation#Photoreceptor Cells, Vertebrate#Vision, Ocular'
b'Purpose: We investigated whether subthreshold retinal phototherapy (SRPT) was associated with recruitment of bone marrow (BM)-derived cells to the neurosensory retina (NSR) and RPE layer.Methods: GFP chimeric mice and wild-type (WT) mice were subjected to SRPT using a slit-lamp infrared laser. Duty cycles of 5%, 10%, 15%, and 20% (0.1 seconds, 250 mW, spot size 50 \xce\xbcm) with 30 applications were placed 50 to 100 \xce\xbcm from the optic disc. In adoptive transfer studies, GFP+ cells were given intravenously immediately after WT mice received SRPT. Immunohistochemistry was done for ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule-1 (IBA-1+), CD45, Griffonia simplicifolia lectin isolectin B4, GFP or cytokeratin). Expression of Ccl2, Il1b, Il6, Hspa1a, Hsp90aa1, Cryab, Hif1a, Cxcl12, and Cxcr4 mRNA and flow cytometry of the NSR and RPE-choroid were performed.Results: Within 12 to 24 hours of SRPT, monocytes were detected in the NSR and RPE-choroid. Detection of reparative progenitors in the RPE occurred at 2 weeks using flow cytometry. Recruitment of GFP+ cells to the RPE layer occurred in a duty cycle-dependent manner in chimeric mice and in mice undergoing adoptive transfer. Hspa1a, Hsp90aa1, and Cryab mRNAs increased in the NSR at 2 hours post laser; Hif1a, Cxcl12, Hspa1a increased at 4 hours in the RPE-choroid; and Ccl2, Il1b, Ifng, and Il6 increased at 12 to 24 hours in the RPE-choroid.Conclusions: SRPT induces monocyte recruitment to the RPE followed by hematopoietic progenitor cell homing at 2 weeks. Recruitment occurs in a duty cycle-dependent manner and potentially could contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of SRPT. labels: #Adoptive Transfer#Animals#Biomarkers#Bone Marrow Cells#Cell Movement#Cells, Cultured#Chemokine CXCL12#Choroid#Female#Flow Cytometry#Green Fluorescent Proteins#Heat-Shock Proteins#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Immunohistochemistry#Laser Therapy#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Monocytes#Phototherapy#Receptors, CXCR4#Retina#Retinal Pigment Epithelium'
b'Purpose: To characterize the density and distribution of the radial peripapillary capillary plexus (RPCP) and its relationship with retinal nerve fiber layer (NFL) thickness in healthy subjects.Methods: Using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (OCT), split-spectrum amplitude decorrelation angiography algorithm and automated montaging, wide-field OCT angiography (OCTA) was used to measure the RPCP capillary density (CD) and NFL thickness. Polar sector-average CD and thickness maps were also created on each eye.Results: Wide-field OCTA (8 \xc3\x97 8 mm) in 10 healthy eyes from 10 subjects demonstrated the distribution of the RPCP throughout the posterior pole. RPCP-CD decreases with distance from the disc, but along the arcuate nerve fiber bundles relatively dense (>half maximum density) RPCP extends more than 5 mm from the disc and includes regions superior to and inferior to the macula. The RPCP-CD and NFL thickness are highly correlated (R2 = 0.85, P<0.001) and fit well with a nonlinear stacked-layer model. The model fit suggests that the RPCP is present when the NFL is thicker than 17.9 \xce\xbcm and reaches a ceiling area density of 84% and that the RPCP has an apparent volume density of 19% at the current instrument transverse resolution. This indicates that capillary overlap can be expected to occur when NFL thickness reaches 40 \xce\xbcm.Conclusions: The wide distribution of dense overlapping RPCP suggests that wider (up to 8 mm vertical and 7 mm horizontal) OCTA scans may be better investigate capillary loss in the early stages of glaucoma or other optic neuropathies. labels: #Adult#Capillaries#Cell Count#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Male#Nerve Fibers#Optic Disk#Retinal Artery#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b"Purpose: To assess possible intraday variability in Bruch's membrane opening-based (BMO) assessment of neuroretinal rim by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) of the optic nerve head (ONH) as well as to evaluate its independence from intraindividual IOP changes.Methods: In this noninterventional, prospective cohort study, 51 consecutively enrolled patients with glaucoma or ocular hypertension underwent standardized SD-OCT of the ONH and IOP assessment at two different time points with a time gap of 5 hours on the same day. Random effects models, intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) and Bland-Altman plots were used to analyze repeatability of BMO minimum rim width (BMO-MRW) and area (BMO-MRA) and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness measurements.Results: Mean BMO area was 1.86 \xc2\xb1 0.30 mm2. At baseline, mean BMO-MRW was 206.46 \xc2\xb1 0.86 \xce\xbcm, mean BMO-MRA was 0.89 \xc2\xb1 0.34 mm2, and mean RNFL thickness was 71.61 \xc2\xb1 0.20 \xce\xbcm. Within intraindividual measurements, mean difference was 2.95 \xce\xbcm or 1.76% for BMO-MRW, 0.02 mm2 or 2.68% for BMO-MRA, and 1.18 \xce\xbcm or 1.89% for RNFL thickness. Comparing time points, \xce\xb72 was 0.001 (P = 0.757) for RNFL thickness, 0.043 (P = 0.01) for BMO-MRA, and 0.07 (P = 0.06) for BMO-MRW. Intraclass correlation coefficients were greater than 0.994, respectively. Variability of morphometric parameters did not correlate to intraindividual IOP fluctuations.Conclusions: Assessment of BMO-MRW by SD-OCT shows high intraday repeatability, which is comparable to the parameter RNFL thickness. Variability seems not to be driven by typical moderate intraday fluctuations of IOP. The two-dimensional parameter BMO-MRA incorporates a fairly higher intraindividual variability. labels: #Aged#Bruch Membrane#Cohort Studies#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence"
b'Purpose: To investigate the application of optical coherence tomography angiography (OCT-A) in evaluation of geographic atrophy (GA) secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD).Methods: Patients with GA were prospectively enrolled and studied with blue fundus autofluorescence (FAF), en face structural OCT, and OCT-A. OCT-A images were acquired using a slab of whole choroid, whereas en face structural OCT images were obtained at the ellipsoid zone (EZ), at the choroidal (CH) level, and at the scleral (SC) level. Three readers independently measured the GA extension areas and evaluated the foveal sparing in each examination. Intraobserver/interobserver agreements and agreement between each couple of imaging techniques were assessed.Results: A total of 47 eyes (26 patients, mean age 76 \xc2\xb1 7 years) with GA (mean area using FAF: 8.77 \xc2\xb1 5.00 mm2) were included. Intraobserver and interobserver agreement was excellent for all imaging techniques (intraclass correlation coefficient [ICC]>0.985), even if en face EZ structural OCT revealed the poorest quality agreement limits. Considering the analysis between each couple of imaging techniques, ICC was excellent between OCT-A compared with FAF (ICC: 0.995), followed by en face structural OCT at CH level (ICC: 0.992), at SC level (ICC: 0.986), and at EZ level (ICC: 0.973). No differences were detected between multifocal and monofocal GA lesions. Considering the evaluation of foveal involvement, lower agreements were disclosed between FAF and all other imaging techniques.Conclusions: OCT-A is a reliable technique for easily visualizing and quantifying GA with the advantages, compared to current imaging techniques, of offering together both structural and blood flow information regarding retinal and choroidal layers and excluding choroidal neovascularization. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Computed Tomography Angiography#Female#Geographic Atrophy#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Observer Variation#Optical Imaging#Prospective Studies#Reproducibility of Results#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Purpose: To investigate layer-by-layer changes in retinal thickness and reflectivity regarding the severity grade of acute retinal artery occlusion (RAO) using spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT).Methods: This study is a retrospective, observational case-control series that took place in an institutional setting and included 148 eyes from 74 patients diagnosed with acute RAO (central or branch). SD-OCT examinations were taken at baseline. Based on OCT findings, RAO was categorized into three grades (incomplete, subtotal, total). The thickness and reflectivity of selected retinal layers were measured from SD-OCT images. The data were compared across the three grades and against the contralateral eyes (controls). The main outcome measures were thickness and reflectivity of selected retinal layers.Results: The thickness of the inner and middle retinal layers differed significantly across the three RAO groups (P<0.001), whereas the outer retinal layer thickness remained not significantly different. Reflectivity values showed statistically significant differences in the inner, middle, and outer retinal layers, but not in the vitreous body (P<0.001).Conclusions: The reflectivity changes of selected retinal layers differ significantly regarding different grades of RAO. SD-OCT reflectivity measurement may be used as a noninvasive method to estimate the grade of retinal ischemia in RAO. labels: #Acute Disease#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retina#Retinal Artery Occlusion#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity'
b"Purpose: Fibroblast activation may play an important role in pterygium progression. Synthetic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor \xce\xb3 (PPAR-\xce\xb3) ligands have been shown to be effective antifibrotic agents against transforming growth factor \xce\xb21 (TGF-\xce\xb21) induced fibrosis in several tissues. We aimed to investigate the antifibrotic effects of the PPAR-\xce\xb3 ligand rosiglitazone in pterygium fibroblasts and the underlying mechanisms.Methods: Profibrotic activation was induced by TGF-\xce\xb21 in primary cultured human pterygium fibroblasts and the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on \xce\xb1-smooth muscle actin (\xce\xb1-SMA), and extra cellular matrix proteins synthesis was detected by western blotting, real-time PCR, immunostaining, and flow cytometry. Pharmaceutical inhibition of PPAR-\xce\xb3 receptor was used to determine the dependency or otherwise of rosiglitazone's action on PPAR-\xce\xb3 signaling. Major signaling pathways downstream of TGF-\xce\xb21 were investigated by western blotting to assess their possible association with rosiglitazone's effect. Cell viability and apoptosis were investigated to assess drug-induced cytotoxicity, and the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on cell migration was further determined.Results: \xce\xb1-SMA and fibronectin synthesis induced by TGF-\xce\xb21 were suppressed by rosiglitazone treatment in a dose-dependent manner. Rosiglitazone also inhibited intrinsic TGF-\xce\xb21 expression. Smad2/3, ERK1/2, and P38 pathways were activated in response to TGF-\xce\xb21. Rosiglitazone suppressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced P38 MAPK activation, while ERK1/2 and Smad2/3 signaling remained unaffected. The observed antifibrotic effect of rosiglitazone was not affected by the PPAR-\xce\xb3 antagonist GW9662, indicating it is not PPAR-\xce\xb3 dependent. Rosiglitazone also inhibited the proliferation and migration of pterygium fibroblasts.Conclusions: Rosiglitazone suppresses TGF-\xce\xb21-induced myofibroblast activation and extra cellular matrix synthesis in pterygium fibroblasts at least partly through the modulation of the p38 MAPK pathway. labels: #Actins#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cells, Cultured#Extracellular Matrix Proteins#Fibrosis#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Humans#Hypoglycemic Agents#Myofibroblasts#PPAR gamma#Pterygium#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Signal Transduction#Thiazolidinediones#Transforming Growth Factor beta1#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases"
b"Purpose: To compare morphologic changes on en face images derived from wide-field swept-source optical coherence tomography (ssOCT) to hypo- and hyperautofluorescent (hypoAF, hyperAF) areas on short-wavelength autofluorescence (SW-AF), and near-infrared (NIR)-AF in recessive Stargardt disease (STGD1).Methods: Wide-field ssOCT cube scans were obtained from 16 patients (16 eyes). Averaged B-scans and SW-AF images were obtained using Spectralis HRA+OCT. NIR-AF images were obtained from 6 eyes. The inner/outer segment (IS/OS), OS/RPE, and RPE/Bruch's membrane boundaries were segmented, and en face slab images generated. A subRPE slab image was used to measure the abnormal RPE area, and an IS/OS slab image, the IS/OS junction loss area. These were compared to hypo- and abnormal SW-AF areas, and hypoNIR-AF areas. A preRPE(OS) slab image was used to evaluate the spatial and intraretinal locations of flecks.Results: For all eyes, RPE atrophy was visualized as a central hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab, and IS/OS junction loss as an abnormal reflective area on the IS/OS slab; the latter was significantly larger (P = 0.04). There was good agreement between the hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab image and hypoSW-AF area, and between the abnormal reflective area on the IS/OS slab and hypo-hyperSW-AF area; the hypoNIR-AF area indicated that the hyperreflective area on the subRPE slab underestimated RPE atrophy. The spatial locations of hyperreflective flecks on the en face preRPE(OS) slab image corresponded to those on the SW-AF images.Conclusions: Wide-field en face OCT imaging has the potential to be a clinically useful tool for the management of STGD1. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Atrophy#Bruch Membrane#Child#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Optical Imaging#Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Inner Segment#Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Outer Segment#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult"
b'Purpose: We determined whether there is relative sparing of pupil function in glaucoma patients with normal pressures compared to those with high pressures.Methods: A cross-sectional study was done of 68 patients with primary open angle glaucoma (POAG): 38 had normal IOPs on all-day phasing before treatment (never>21 mm Hg), with confirmed progression of glaucomatous optic neuropathy (NTG) and 30 had glaucomatous optic neuropathy associated with elevated intraocular pressures (>25 mm Hg; HP-POAG). The relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD) was quantified with the RAPDx device, and mean deviation of visual field loss was obtained from reliable Humphrey visual fields. Outcomes measures evaluated were difference in slope between NTG and HP-POAG when plotting: (1) RAPD score against difference in mean deviation (MD) between eyes, and (2) RAPD score against difference in RNFL thickness between eyes.Results: The slopes for magnitude of RAPD versus difference in MD were -0.06 (95% confidence interval [CI], -0.076, -0.044) for patients with NTG and -0.08 (95% CI, -0.109, -0.067) for those with HP-POAG. Fitting the interaction term showed a statistically significant difference between the slopes (0.023; 95% CI [0.0017, 0.0541]; P value = 0.037; HP-POAG reference group). Thus, for difference in MD, the slope for patients with NTG was flatter than the slope for those with HP-POAG.Conclusions: Glaucoma patients with NTG have a lesser RAPD for a given level of intereye difference of HVF MD, compared to patients with high IOPs. This suggests that damage to intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) differs between the normal and high-pressure forms of open-angle glaucoma (OAG), and supports the theory that mitochondrial optic neuropathies may have a role in the group of diagnoses currently termed normal tension glaucoma. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dark Adaptation#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Ocular Hypertension#Pupil#Pupil Disorders#Tonometry, Ocular'
b'Purpose: To compare the sectoral structure-function relationships in glaucoma between two structural parameters, vessel density (VD) and thickness, in the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL).Methods: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) angiography (AngioVue/RTVue-XR) for VD and OCT (RS-3000) for peripapillary RNFL thickness were performed in 129 eyes from 129 subjects (94 glaucoma, 17 glaucoma suspects, and 18 normal eyes). Humphrey visual field (VF) tests were performed using a SITA standard 24-2 program. Sectoral structure-function relationships based on the Garway-Heath map were compared between VD and thickness using a semipartial correlation coefficient (sr) and partial residual plots determined by multiple linear regression models controlling for the effects of sex, age, axial length, disc area, beta- and gamma- parapapillary atrophy (PPA) zones, and signal strength index (SSI).Results: For all VF sectors, the sr2 of VD was largest when the VD sector corresponded to the VF sector (sr2: 0.17-0.39). In contrast, in only three sectors was the sr2 of thickness largest when the thickness sector corresponded to the VF sector (sr2: 0.02-0.34): the inferior temporal, temporal, and superior temporal sectors. The partial residual plots against VD showed more linear relationships with VF sensitivity than those against thickness in the qualitative evaluation of fitting by locally weighted scatterplot smoothing. Eyes with larger SSI had higher VD, whereas eyes with a larger extension of the PPA zone into the VD measurement area had lower VD.Conclusions: Peripapillary RNFL VD and thickness have different characteristic sectoral structure-function relationships in glaucoma. labels: #Axial Length, Eye#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Gonioscopy#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Ocular Hypertension#Optic Disk#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Tonometry, Ocular#Visual Field Tests#Visual Fields'
b'Purpose: To investigate surface expression of CD11b and CD200 on circulating monocytes in patients with polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy (PCV).Methods: This was a prospective case-control study of patients with PCV (n = 27), age-matched healthy controls (n = 27), and patients with neovascular AMD (n = 49). All participants underwent a comprehensive ocular examination. Fluorescein and indocyanine green angiography were performed in patients suspected of neovascular AMD or PCV. Polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy was angiographically categorized into those with a strong presence of a branching vascular network (BVN) (type 1) or with a faint/no clear presence of a BVN (type 2). Fresh venous blood was stained with fluorescent antibodies for flow cytometric analyses. We compared the percentages of CD11b+, CD200+, and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes between groups of diagnosis and between different angiographic subtypes of PCV.Results: Overall, CD11b+ monocytes were both increased in patients with PCV and neovascular AMD. CD200+ and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes were increased in patients with neovascular AMD. An age-related increase in CD11b+CD200+ monocytes was absent in patients with PCV and neovascular AMD. Patients with PCV type 1 had significantly higher CD11b+, CD200+, and CD11b+CD200+ monocytes, whereas patients with PCV type 2 had levels similar to that in healthy controls.Conclusions: We found that PCV is immunologically heterogeneous with significant differences between angiographic subtypes. Increased CD11b+ and CD200+ monocytes in those with a strong presence of BVN indicate that BVN development may be associated with retinal injury and a VEGF-mediated process that is either reflected or propelled by systemic changes in monocytes. labels: #Aged#Antigens, CD#Biomarkers#CD11b Antigen#Case-Control Studies#Choroidal Neovascularization#Coloring Agents#Female#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Indocyanine Green#Macular Degeneration#Male#Monocytes#Polyps#Prospective Studies'
b'Purpose: Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) implies that transient ischemia in a limb can affect perfusion in a target organ elsewhere in the body. The changes in perfusion can be assumed to be paralleled by changes in the vessel diameters in the target organ. It remains to be elucidated whether the diameter of normal retinal vessels can be used as a marker of RIC in vivo.Methods: In 20 normal persons aged 20 to 31 years the Dynamic Vessel Analyzer (DVA) was used to measure the resting diameter and diameter changes during isometric exercise and flicker stimulation before, immediately after, and 1 hour after RIC induced by transient ischemia in the left arm.Results: The baseline diameter of retinal venules was reduced nonsignificantly immediately after (P = 0.07) and significantly 1 hour after RIC (P = 0.009), whereas the baseline diameter of arterioles was unaffected by the intervention (P = 0.61). Arterial constriction induced by isometric exercise was significantly reduced immediately after RIC (P = 0.04), but not 1 hour after RIC (P = 0.99). None of the other diameter responses were affected by RIC (P = 0.22 for all comparisons).Conclusions: The diameter of retinal vessels might potentially be a marker of ischemic conditioning in the body in general. The effect of RIC on retinal vascular diseases where ischemia is a part of the pathogenesis should be investigated. labels: #Adult#Arm#Blood Pressure#Brachial Artery#Exercise#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Ischemia#Ischemic Preconditioning#Male#Photography#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Vasodilation#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: Induction of focal retinal detachment (RD) for subretinal delivery of stem cells and gene therapy is increasingly common. In order to determine if this procedure has an adverse impact on the retina, we use spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT) to evaluate the pre- and postoperative retinal anatomy of the incidentally detached normal retina surrounding large submacular hemorrhages (SMH) during surgical displacement procedures.Methods: Retrospective, observational study of human subjects with monocular SMH evaluated before and after surgical displacement using clinical exam, fundus photography, and SD-OCT. Manual measurements of the inner retinal thickness (IRT), outer retinal thickness (ORT), and full retinal thickness (FRT) were made in regions involving the SMH and surrounding normal retina. Comparison of retinal thickness measurements was made using the Wilcoxon signed-rank test.Results: Seven eyes were included in this study. All eyes successfully underwent surgical displacement of SMH. Visual acuity improved in 6/7 subjects and was unchanged in the remaining subject. Incidental RD of the normal retinal regions surrounding the SMH did not cause any significant change in IRT, ORT, or FRT that was detectable by SD-OCT. In contrast, mean FRT overlying regions with SMH was significantly greater before surgery compared to after displacement of SMH or normal adjacent retina.Conclusions: Surgically induced focal RD does not cause detectable retinal changes in the incidentally detached normal retina surrounding large SMH. Therefore, surgical induction of focal RD should not be considered to have the same adverse impact on the retina as pathologic RD. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retina#Retinal Detachment#Retinal Hemorrhage#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Visual Acuity#Vitrectomy'
b'Purpose: To elucidate functions of wild-type myocilin, a secreted glycoprotein associated with glaucoma.Methods: Lysates of mouse eyes were used for immunoprecipitation with affinity-purified antibodies against mouse myocilin. Shotgun proteomic analysis was used for the identification of proteins interacting with myocilin. Colocalization of myocilin and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 3 (TIMP3) in different eye structures was investigated by a multiplex fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunofluorescent labeling with subsequent confocal microscopy. Matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2) activity assay was used to test effects of myocilin on TIMP3 inhibitory action.Results: TIMP3 was identified by a shotgun proteomic analysis as a protein that was coimmunoprecipitated with myocilin from eye lysates of wild-type and transgenic mice expressing elevated levels of mouse myocilin but not from lysates of transgenic mice expressing mutated mouse myocilin. Interaction of myocilin and TIMP3 was confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation of myocilin and TIMP3 from HEK293 cells transiently transfected with cDNAs encoding these proteins. The olfactomedin domain of myocilin is essential for interaction with TIMP3. In the eye, the main sites of myocilin and TIMP3 colocalization are the trabecular meshwork, sclera, and choroid. Using purified proteins, it has been shown that myocilin markedly enhanced the inhibitory activity of TIMP3 toward MMP2.Conclusions: Myocilin may serve as a modulator of TIMP3 activity via interactions with the myocilin olfactomedin domain. Our data imply that in the case of MYOCILIN null or some glaucoma-causing mutations, inhibitory activity of TIMP3 toward MMP2 might be reduced, mimicking deleterious mutations in the TIMP3 gene. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Ciliary Body#Cytoskeletal Proteins#Eye Proteins#Female#Fluorescent Antibody Technique, Indirect#Gene Expression#Glycoproteins#HEK293 Cells#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Confocal#Proteomics#RNA, Messenger#Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinase-3#Trabecular Meshwork#Transfection'
b'Purpose: A small, full-field flicker electroretinogram (ERG) recording system was recently developed to record flicker ERGs without mydriasis (RETeval). The device delivers a stimulus with constant retinal illuminance by adjusting the retinal luminance to compensate for changes in the pupillary area. The purpose of this study was to determine what factors affect the fundamental components of the flicker ERGs recorded by RETeval in young healthy subjects.Methods: Flicker ERGs were recorded with the RETeval system from 150 eyes of 150 young healthy subjects (age, 20-29 years). Univariate and multivariate linear regression analyses were performed to identify the factors that affected the implicit times and amplitudes of the fundamental component of the flicker ERGs. The independent variables included age, sex, refractive error, axial length, and pupillary area.Results: Multivariate regression analyses indicated that a longer axial length (P = 0.03) and larger pupillary area (P = 0.008) were independent factors that were significantly associated with longer implicit times of the fundamental component of the flicker ERGs. Multivariate regression analyses also showed that the female sex (P = 0.03) was an independent factor, which was significantly associated with larger amplitude fundamental component of the flicker ERGs.Conclusions: These results indicate that the fundamental components of the RETeval flicker ERGs are significantly affected by the axial length, pupillary area, and sex of young healthy subjects. The results also suggest that it would be better to compensate for the Stiles-Crawford effect when flicker ERGs are recorded with natural pupils. labels: #Adult#Axial Length, Eye#Electroretinography#Female#Healthy Volunteers#Humans#Lighting#Male#Photic Stimulation#Prospective Studies#Pupil#Retina#Retinal Cone Photoreceptor Cells#Sex Factors#Young Adult'
b'Purpose: Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of hereditary retinal degeneration in which mutations commonly result in the initial phase of rod cell death followed by gradual cone cell death. The mechanisms by which the mutations lead to photoreceptor cell death in RP have not been clearly elucidated. There is currently no effective treatment for RP. The purpose of this work was to explore iron chelation therapy for improving cone survival and function in the rd10 mouse model of RP.Methods: Two iron-chelating drugs, 5-(4-(2-hydroxyethyl) piperazin-1-yl (methyl)-8-hydroxyquinoline (VK28) and its chimeric derivative 5-(N-methyl-N-propargyaminomethyl)-quinoline-8-oldihydrochloride (VAR10303), were injected intraperitoneally to rd10 mice every other day starting from postnatal day 14. We investigate the effects of the two compounds on cone rescue at three time points, using a combination of immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and a series of visual function tests.Results: VK28 and VAR10303 treatments partially rescued cones, and significantly improved visual function in rd10 mice. Moreover, we showed that the neuroprotective effects of VK28 and VAR10303 were correlated to inhibition of neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. Furthermore, we demonstrated that downregulation of NF-kB and p53 is likely to be the mechanisms by which proinflammatory mediators and apoptosis are reduced in the rd10 retina, respectively.Conclusions: VK28 and VAR10303 provided partial histologic and functional rescue of cones in RD10 mice. Our study demonstrated that iron chelation therapy might represent an effective therapeutic strategy for RP patients. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cell Survival#Disease Models, Animal#Electroretinography#Hydroxyquinolines#Immunohistochemistry#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Iron Chelating Agents#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#NF-kappa B#Neuroprotective Agents#Oxidative Stress#Piperazines#Quinolines#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Retinal Cone Photoreceptor Cells#Retinitis Pigmentosa#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'Purpose: The actin cytoskeleton of trabecular meshwork (TM) cells plays a role in regulating aqueous humor outflow. Many studies have investigated stress fibers, but F-actin also assembles into other supramolecular structures including filopodia. Recently, specialized filopodia called tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) have been described, which communicate molecular signals and organelles directly between cells. Here, we investigate TNT formation by TM cells.Methods: Human TM cells were labeled separately with the fluorescent dyes, DiO and DiD, or with mitochondrial dye. Fixed or live TM cells were imaged using confocal microscopy. Image analysis software was used to track fluorescent vesicles and count the number and length of filopodia. The number of fluorescently labeled vesicles transferred between cells was counted in response to specific inhibitors of the actin cytoskeleton. Human TM tissue was stained with phalloidin.Results: Live-cell confocal imaging of cultured TM cells showed transfer of fluorescently labeled vesicles and mitochondria via TNTs. In TM tissue, a long (160 \xce\xbcm) actin-rich cell process bridged an intertrabecular space and did not adhere to the substratum. Treatment of TM cells with CK-666, an Arp2/3 inhibitor, significantly decreased the number and length of filopodia, decreased transfer of fluorescently labeled vesicles and induced thick stress fibers compared to vehicle control. Conversely, inhibiting stress fibers using Y27632 increased transfer of vesicles and induced long cell processes.Conclusions: Identification of TNTs provides a means by which TM cells can directly communicate with each other over long distances. This may be particularly important to overcome limitations of diffusion-based signaling in the aqueous humor fluid environment. labels: #Actin-Related Protein 2-3 Complex#Actins#Adolescent#Adult#Amides#Cell Communication#Child#Child, Preschool#Enzyme Inhibitors#Fluorescent Dyes#Humans#Indoles#Microscopy, Confocal#Middle Aged#Nanotubes#Pseudopodia#Pyridines#Signal Transduction#Staining and Labeling#Trabecular Meshwork#Transport Vesicles'
b'Purpose: The aim of this article is to report the investigation of the structural features of ABCA4, a protein associated with a genetic retinal disease. A new database collecting knowledge of ABCA4 structure may facilitate predictions about the possible functional consequences of gene mutations observed in clinical practice.Methods: In order to correlate structural and functional effects of the observed mutations, the structure of mouse P-glycoprotein was used as a template for homology modeling. The obtained structural information and genetic data are the basis of our relational database (ABCA4Database).Results: Sequence variability among all ABCA4-deposited entries was calculated and reported as Shannon entropy score at the residue level. The three-dimensional model of ABCA4 structure was used to locate the spatial distribution of the observed variable regions. Our predictions from structural in silico tools were able to accurately link the functional effects of mutations to phenotype. The development of the ABCA4Database gathers all the available genetic and structural information, yielding a global view of the molecular basis of some retinal diseases.Conclusions: ABCA4 modeled structure provides a molecular basis on which to analyze protein sequence mutations related to genetic retinal disease in order to predict the risk of retinal disease across all possible ABCA4 mutations. Additionally, our ABCA4 predicted structure is a good starting point for the creation of a new data analysis model, appropriate for precision medicine, in order to develop a deeper knowledge network of the disease and to improve the management of patients. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters#Amino Acid Sequence#Computer Simulation#DNA Mutational Analysis#Databases, Factual#Genetic Therapy#Humans#Models, Molecular#Molecular Conformation#Molecular Sequence Data#Mutation#Phenotype#Protein Folding#Protein Structure, Tertiary#Retinal Diseases'
b'Purpose: To characterize the clinical and biological properties of biodegradable collagen matrices (BCMs) for possible glaucoma drainage device implantation.Methods: A total of 68 refractory glaucoma eyes, followed up postoperatively for at least 6 months, were consecutively enrolled after retrospective chart review. The BCM-augmented Ahmed valve implantations (BAAVI) using our Ologen-6 and Ologen-7 valves were performed and compared with a conventional method. Complete surgical success was defined as an IOP of \xe2\x89\xa421 mm Hg (IOP 1) or \xe2\x89\xa417 mm Hg (IOP 2) without antiglaucoma medications. Qualified success was defined as an IOP \xe2\x89\xa421 mm Hg with or without antiglaucoma medications. The biological properties of each BCM were assessed by enzymatic degradation rates via collagenase under ocular physiological conditions.Results: The mean ages and preoperative IOPs were similar for the groups. In the conventional, BAAVI with Ologen-6, and BAAVI with Ologen-7 groups, complete success rates with target IOP 1 were 29.2%, 40.0%, and 66.7%; those with target IOP 2 were 12.5%, 30.0%, and 45.8%; qualified success rates were 45.8%, 55.0%, and 75.0%, respectively. The enzymatic degradation rate of Ologen-7 was significantly slower than that of Ologen-6 (12.5 \xc3\x97 10-3 vs. 28.8 \xc3\x97 10-3).Conclusions: The surgical success rate was highest in the Ologen-7 BAAVI group, with the lowest dependency on postoperative antiglaucoma medication use compared with the conventional and Ologen-6 BAAVI groups. The clinical results correlated with the different biological and physicochemical properties based on the degree of enzymatic degradation and on the structural morphology. labels: #Absorbable Implants#Collagen#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Glaucoma#Glaucoma Drainage Implants#Glycosaminoglycans#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Prosthesis Implantation#Retrospective Studies#Suture Techniques#Tonometry, Ocular#Treatment Outcome#Visual Acuity#Wound Healing'
b'Purpose: The purpose of this study was to determine how the architecture of the lamina cribrosa (LC) microstructure, including the shape and size of the lamina pores, influences the IOP-induced deformation of the neural tissues within the LC pores using computational modeling.Methods: We built seven specimen-specific finite element models of LC microstructure with distinct nonlinear anisotropic properties for LC beams and neural tissues based on histological sections from three sheep eyes. Changes in shape (aspect ratio and convexity) and size (area and perimeter length) due to IOP-induced hoop stress were calculated for 128 LC pores. Multivariate linear regression was used to determine if pore shape and size were correlated with the strain in the pores. We also compared the microstructure models to a homogenized model built following previous approaches.Results: The LC microstructure resulted in focal tensile, compressive, and shear strains in the neural tissues of the LC that were not predicted by homogenized models. IOP-induced hoop stress caused pores to become larger and more convex; however, pore aspect ratio did not change consistently. Peak tensile strains within the pores were well predicted by a linear regression model considering the initial convexity (negative correlation, P<0.001), aspect ratio (positive correlation, P<0.01), and area (negative correlation, P<0.01). Significant correlations were also found when considering the deformed shape and size of the LC pores.Conclusions: The deformation of the LC neural tissues was largely dependent on the collagenous LC beams. Simple measures of LC pore shape and area provided good estimates of neural tissue biomechanical insult. labels: #Animals#Computer Simulation#Finite Element Analysis#Intraocular Pressure#Optic Disk#Optic Nerve#Sheep#Stress, Mechanical'
b"Purpose: To identify microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), using genetic data. MiRNAs are small noncoding RNAs that posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression. Genetic variants in miRNAs or miRNA-binding sites within gene 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTRs) are expected to affect miRNA function and contribute to disease risk.Methods: Data from the recent genome-wide association studies on intraocular pressure, vertical cup-to-disc ratio (VCDR), cupa area and disc area were used to investigate the association of miRNAs with POAG endophenotypes. Putative targets of the associated miRNAs were studied according to their association with POAG and tested in cell line by transfection experiments for regulation by the miRNAs.Results: Of 411 miRNA variants, rs12803915:A/G in the terminal loop of pre-miR-612 and rs2273626:A/C in the seed sequence of miR-4707 were significantly associated with VCDR and cup area (P values<1.2 \xc3\x97 10-4). The first variant is demonstrated to increase the miR-612 expression. We showed that the second variant does not affect the miR-4707 biogenesis, but reduces the binding of miR-4707-3p to CARD10, a gene known to be involved in glaucoma. Moreover, of 72,052 miRNA-binding-site variants, 47 were significantly associated with four POAG endophenotypes (P value<6.9 \xc3\x97 10-6). Of these, we highlighted 10 variants that are more likely to affect miRNA-mediated gene regulation in POAG. These include rs3217992 and rs1063192, which have been shown experimentally to affect miR-138-3p- and miR-323b-5p-mediated regulation of CDKN2B.Conclusions: We identified a number of miRNAs that are associated with POAG endophenotypes. The identified miRNAs and their target genes are candidates for future studies on miRNA-related therapies for POAG. labels: #Base Sequence#Binding Sites#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#MicroRNAs#Molecular Sequence Data#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide"
b'Purpose: The murine double minute (MDM)2 is a critical negative regulator of the p53 tumor suppressor, and MDM2 SNP309G is associated with a higher risk of proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR); in addition, the MDM2 T309G created using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/associated endonuclease (Cas)9 enhances normal rabbit vitreous-induced expression of MDM2 and survival of primary human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells in vitro. The goal of this study was to determine whether this MDM2 T309G contributes to the development of experimental PVR.Methods: hRPE cells expressing MDM2 T309G or T309T only were treated with vitreous from human PVR donors (HV). The expression of MDM2 and p53 in the treated cells was examined by Western blot. The in vitro vitreous-induced cellular responses, such as contraction were assessed, and PVR was induced by intravitreal injection of the hRPE cells with MDM2 T309G or T309T only into rabbit eyes.Results: Western blot analyses indicated that treatment of hRPE cells with HV led to a significant increase (1.7 \xc2\xb1 0.2-fold) in the expression of MDM2 and a significant decrease in p53 in the cells expressing MDM2 T309G compared with those with MDM2 T309T. In addition, HV promoted contraction of the hRPE cells expressing MDM2 T309G significantly more than those with MDM2 T309T only. Furthermore, MDM2 T309G in the hRPE cells enhanced the development of PVR in a rabbit model.Conclusions: The MDM2 SNP309 in RPE cells enhances their potential of PVR pathogenesis. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Blotting, Western#Cell Count#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Intravitreal Injections#Male#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2#RNA, Messenger#Rabbits#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Retinal Pigment Epithelium#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53#Vitreoretinopathy, Proliferative#Vitreous Body'
b'Purpose: The lens is a radiosensitive organ. Any dose of cephalic irradiation can give rise to radiation-induced cataracts. Contrary to other forms of radiotherapy, proton therapy (PT) can spare all or part of the lens due to accurate dose deposition. We investigated whether a lens-sparing approach was relevant to avoid cataracts in uveal melanoma patients.Methods: Patients were referred for PT from onco-ophthalmologists of private and academic institutions. Patients without preexisting cataracts or implants were entered in a prospective database. Dose thresholds responsible for cataracts were investigated in volumes of lens or lens periphery. Lens opacifications and de novo vision-impairing cataracts (VICs) had biannual follow up by ophthalmologists blinded to lens dose. Correlations between dose-volume relationships and VICs were assessed using univariate/multivariate regressions.Results: Between 1991 and 2015, 1696 uveal melanoma patients were consecutively treated with PT. After a median follow up of 48 months, 14.4% and 8.7% of patients had cataracts and VIC within median times of 19 and 28 months, respectively. Median values of mean lens and lens periphery doses were 1.1 (radiobiologically effective [RBE] dose in photon-equivalent grays [GyRBE]) and 6.5 GyRBE, respectively. The lens received no dose in 25% of the patients. At an irradiated lens volume of \xe2\x89\xa45%, there was no significantly increased risk for VIC below a dose of 10 GyRBE.Conclusions: A lens-sparing approach is feasible and results not only in reduced need for cataract surgery but also in better fundus-based tumor control. Reassessment of radioprotection rules for lens dose thresholds may follow. labels: #Cataract#Female#Humans#Incidence#Lens, Crystalline#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Proton Therapy#Radiation Injuries#Radiotherapy Dosage#Radiotherapy Planning, Computer-Assisted#Uveal Neoplasms'
b'Purpose: Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adults and approximately half of those diagnosed will die of metastasis. This study investigates whether UM progression is driven by a subpopulation of stem-like cells, termed "cancer stem cells" (CSCs).Methods: Expression of postulated stem cell markers aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), CD44, and CD133 was analyzed in UM cell lines and primary UM short-term cultures (STCs) established from tumor samples. Additionally, the notion of a "cellular hierarchy" within UM was investigated. Finally, the phenomenon of phenotypic plasticity in response to environmental factors was explored.Results: We demonstrate that expression of ALDH, CD44, and CD133 does not select for a subpopulation of stem-like cells in either UM cell lines or UM STCs. Furthermore, there is an absence of a cellular hierarchy in cell lines and all cells in culture are able to drive tumor progression. Last, we show that established UM cell lines and UM STCs are plastic in nature and switch their phenotype in response to environmental stimuli.Conclusions: We hypothesize that this capacity to undergo phenotypic plasticity may be a consequence of neural crest lineage and renders the exploration of the CSC hypothesis extremely challenging in UM. labels: #AC133 Antigen#Aldehyde Dehydrogenase#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Plasticity#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Hyaluronan Receptors#Melanoma#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Phenotype#Tumor Stem Cell Assay#Uveal Neoplasms'
b"Purpose: The photopic negative response (PhNR) is a slow negative component of a flash photopic full-field ERG that has been shown to be specific for retinal ganglion cell (RGC) activity. Direct evaluation of RGC function is desirable in patients with Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) in which the loss of central acuity can make it difficult to monitor patients with standard metrics. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the use of PhNR as an objective noninvasive clinical metric in LHON.Methods: Full-field photopic ERG recordings were collected in subjects with the mt.11778G>A/ND4 LHON mutation using a red on blue stimulus. The PhNR was identified using a computer-based automated detection system, and data were manually examined to remove movement artifacts.Results: The PhNR amplitude was compared between controls (n = 13), carriers (n = 17), and affected (n = 6). Mean PhNR amplitude decreased significantly across groups (P<0.0001). Post hoc Tukey's test revealed a significant decrease in PhNR amplitude between carriers and controls (P<0.05) and between carriers and affected (P<0.01).Conclusions: We are able to demonstrate that the PhNR amplitude is significantly decreased in patients affected by LHON compared to carriers in a well-described pedigree. Surprisingly, there was also a decrease in PhNR in carriers, suggesting potential subclinical RGC dysfunction in some carriers. This is important in patients affected with LHON who typically have a dense central scotoma. The PhNR may be a useful objective outcome measure for future clinical trials. labels: #Adult#Color Vision#DNA Mutational Analysis#DNA, Mitochondrial#Electroretinography#Female#Heterozygote#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Optic Atrophy, Hereditary, Leber#Photic Stimulation#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Visual Acuity#Visual Fields"
b"See Legrain (doi:10.1093/awx188) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Some patients with complex regional pain syndrome report that movements of the affected limb are slow, more effortful, and lack automaticity. These symptoms have been likened to the syndrome that sometimes follows brain injury called hemispatial neglect, in which patients exhibit attentional impairments and problems with movements affecting the contralesional side of the body and space. Psychophysical testing of patients with complex regional pain syndrome has found evidence for spatial biases when judging visual targets distanced at 2 m, but not in directions that indicate reduced attention to the affected side. In contrast, when judging visual or tactile stimuli presented on their own body surface, or pictures of hands and feet within arm's reach, patients with complex regional pain syndrome exhibited a bias away from the affected side. What is not yet known is whether patients with complex regional pain syndrome only have biased attention for bodily-specific information in the space within arm's reach, or whether they also show a bias for information that is not associated with the body, suggesting a more generalized attention deficit. Using a temporal order judgement task, we found that patients with complex regional pain syndrome processed visual stimuli more slowly on the affected side (relative to the unaffected side) when the lights were projected onto a blank surface (i.e. when no bodily information was visible), and when the lights were projected onto the dorsal surfaces of their uncrossed hands. However, with the arms crossed (such that the left and right lights projected onto the right and left hands, respectively), patients' responses were no different than controls. These results provide the first demonstration of a generalized attention bias away from the affected side of space in complex regional pain syndrome patients that is not specifically related to bodily information. They also suggest a separate and additional bias of visual attention away from the affected hand. The strength of attention bias was predicted by scores on a self-report measure of body perception distortion; but not by pain intensity, time since diagnosis, or affected body side (left or right). At an individual level, those patients whose upper limbs were most affected had a higher incidence of inattention than those whose lower limbs were most affected. However, at a group level, affected limb (upper or lower) did not predict bias magnitude; nor did three measures designed to assess possible asymmetries in the distribution of movements across space. It is concluded that inattention in near space in complex regional pain syndrome may arise in parallel with a distorted perception of the body.10.1093/brain/awx152_video1awx152media15495542665001. labels: #Adult#Aged#Attentional Bias#Case-Control Studies#Complex Regional Pain Syndromes#Female#Functional Laterality#Humans#Judgment#Male#Middle Aged#Space Perception#Visual Perception#Young Adult"
b"Patients with Alzheimer's disease can present with different clinical phenotypes. Individuals with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (>65 years) typically present with medial temporal lobe neurodegeneration and predominantly amnestic symptomatology, while patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (<65 years) exhibit greater neocortical involvement associated with a clinical presentation including dyspraxia, executive dysfunction, or visuospatial impairment. We recruited 20 patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease, 21 with late-onset Alzheimer's disease, three with prodromal early-onset Alzheimer's disease and 13 with prodromal late-onset Alzheimer's disease, as well as 30 cognitively healthy elderly controls, that had undergone 18F-AV-1451 tau positron emission tomography and structural magnetic resonance imaging to explore whether early- and late-onset Alzheimer's disease exhibit differential regional tau pathology and atrophy patterns. Strong associations of lower age at symptom onset with higher 18F-AV-1451 uptake were observed in several neocortical regions, while higher age did not yield positive associations in neither patient group. Comparing patients with early-onset Alzheimer's disease with controls resulted in significantly higher 18F-AV-1451 retention throughout the neocortex, while comparing healthy controls with late-onset Alzheimer's disease patients yielded a distinct pattern of higher 18F-AV-1451 retention, predominantly confined to temporal lobe regions. When compared against each other, the early-onset Alzheimer's disease group exhibited greater uptake than the late-onset group in prefrontal and premotor, as well as in inferior parietal cortex. These preliminary findings indicate that age may constitute an important contributor to Alzheimer's disease heterogeneity highlighting the potential of tau positron emission tomography to capture phenotypic variation across patients with Alzheimer's disease. labels: #Age of Onset#Aged#Aging#Alzheimer Disease#Atrophy#Carbolines#Case-Control Studies#Cerebral Cortex#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroimaging#Positron-Emission Tomography#Prodromal Symptoms#Tauopathies#tau Proteins"
b'See Schiff (doi:10.1093/awx209) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury may recover consciousness before self-expression. Without behavioural evidence of consciousness at the bedside, clinicians may render an inaccurate prognosis, increasing the likelihood of withholding life-sustaining therapies or denying rehabilitative services. Task-based functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography techniques have revealed covert consciousness in the chronic setting, but these techniques have not been tested in the intensive care unit. We prospectively enrolled 16 patients admitted to the intensive care unit for acute severe traumatic brain injury to test two hypotheses: (i) in patients who lack behavioural evidence of language expression and comprehension, functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography detect command-following during a motor imagery task (i.e. cognitive motor dissociation) and association cortex responses during language and music stimuli (i.e. higher-order cortex motor dissociation); and (ii) early responses to these paradigms are associated with better 6-month outcomes on the Glasgow Outcome Scale-Extended. Patients underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging on post-injury Day 9.2 \xc2\xb1 5.0 and electroencephalography on Day 9.8 \xc2\xb1 4.6. At the time of imaging, behavioural evaluation with the Coma Recovery Scale-Revised indicated coma (n = 2), vegetative state (n = 3), minimally conscious state without language (n = 3), minimally conscious state with language (n = 4) or post-traumatic confusional state (n = 4). Cognitive motor dissociation was identified in four patients, including three whose behavioural diagnosis suggested a vegetative state. Higher-order cortex motor dissociation was identified in two additional patients. Complete absence of responses to language, music and motor imagery was only observed in coma patients. In patients with behavioural evidence of language function, responses to language and music were more frequently observed than responses to motor imagery (62.5-80% versus 33.3-42.9%). Similarly, in 16 matched healthy subjects, responses to language and music were more frequently observed than responses to motor imagery (87.5-100% versus 68.8-75.0%). Except for one patient who died in the intensive care unit, all patients with cognitive motor dissociation and higher-order cortex motor dissociation recovered beyond a confusional state by 6 months. However, 6-month outcomes were not associated with early functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography responses for the entire cohort. These observations suggest that functional magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography can detect command-following and higher-order cortical function in patients with acute severe traumatic brain injury. Early detection of covert consciousness and cortical responses in the intensive care unit could alter time-sensitive decisions about withholding life-sustaining therapies. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Brain Injuries, Traumatic#Case-Control Studies#Consciousness#Early Diagnosis#Electroencephalography#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Glasgow Outcome Scale#Humans#Imagination#Language#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Music#Persistent Vegetative State#Young Adult'
b"Individuals with schizophrenia typically suffer a range of cognitive deficits, including prominent deficits in working memory and executive function. These difficulties are strongly predictive of functional outcomes, but there is a paucity of effective therapeutic interventions targeting these deficits. Transcranial direct current stimulation is a novel neuromodulatory technique with emerging evidence of potential pro-cognitive effects; however, there is limited understanding of its mechanism. This was a double-blind randomized sham controlled pilot study of transcranial direct current stimulation on a working memory (n-back) and executive function (Stroop) task in 28 individuals with schizophrenia using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Study participants received 30 min of real or sham transcranial direct current stimulation applied to the left frontal cortex. The 'real' and 'sham' groups did not differ in online working memory task performance, but the transcranial direct current stimulation group demonstrated significant improvement in performance at 24 h post-transcranial direct current stimulation. Transcranial direct current stimulation was associated with increased activation in the medial frontal cortex beneath the anode; showing a positive correlation with consolidated working memory performance 24 h post-stimulation. There was reduced activation in the left cerebellum in the transcranial direct current stimulation group, with no change in the middle frontal gyrus or parietal cortices. Improved performance on the executive function task was associated with reduced activity in the anterior cingulate cortex. Transcranial direct current stimulation modulated functional activation in local task-related regions, and in more distal nodes in the network. Transcranial direct current stimulation offers a potential novel approach to altering frontal cortical activity and exerting pro-cognitive effects in schizophrenia. labels: #Adult#Cerebellum#Double-Blind Method#Executive Function#Female#Frontal Lobe#Gyrus Cinguli#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Memory, Short-Term#Pilot Projects#Psychomotor Performance#Schizophrenia#Schizophrenic Psychology#Thinking#Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation#Young Adult"
b"See Jellinger (doi:10.1093/awx190) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89The enzyme monoamine oxidases (B and A subtypes, encoded by MAOB and MAOA, respectively) are drug targets in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Inhibitors of MAOB are used clinically in Parkinson's disease for symptomatic purposes whereas the potential disease-modifying effect of monoamine oxidase inhibitors is debated. As astroglial cells express high levels of MAOB, the enzyme has been proposed as a brain imaging marker of astrogliosis, a cellular process possibly involved in Parkinson's disease pathogenesis as elevation of MAOB in astrocytes might be harmful. Since brain monoamine oxidase status in Parkinson's disease is uncertain, our objective was to measure, by quantitative immunoblotting in autopsied brain homogenates, protein levels of both monoamine oxidases in three different degenerative parkinsonian disorders: Parkinson's disease (n = 11), multiple system atrophy (n = 11), and progressive supranuclear palsy (n = 16) and in matched controls (n = 16). We hypothesized that if MAOB is 'substantially' localized to astroglial cells, MAOB levels should be generally associated with standard astroglial protein measures (e.g. glial fibrillary acidic protein). MAOB levels were increased in degenerating putamen (+83%) and substantia nigra (+10%, non-significant) in multiple system atrophy; in caudate (+26%), putamen (+27%), frontal cortex (+31%) and substantia nigra (+23%) of progressive supranuclear palsy; and in frontal cortex (+33%), but not in substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease, a region we previously reported no increase in astrocyte protein markers. Although the magnitude of MAOB increase was less than those of standard astrocytic markers, significant positive correlations were observed amongst the astrocyte proteins and MAOB. Despite suggestions that MAOA (versus MAOB) is primarily responsible for metabolism of dopamine in dopamine neurons, there was no loss of the enzyme in the parkinsonian substantia nigra; instead, increased nigral levels of a MAOA fragment and 'turnover' of the enzyme were observed in the conditions. Our findings provide support that MAOB might serve as a biochemical imaging marker, albeit not entirely specific, for astrocyte activation in human brain. The observation that MAOB protein concentration is generally increased in degenerating brain areas in multiple system atrophy (especially putamen) and in progressive supranuclear palsy, but not in the nigra in Parkinson's disease, also distinguishes astrocyte behaviour in Parkinson's disease from that in the two 'Parkinson-plus' conditions. The question remains whether suppression of either MAOB in astrocytes or MAOA in dopamine neurons might influence progression of the parkinsonian disorders. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Caudate Nucleus#Dopamine#Female#Frontal Lobe#Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein#Humans#Isoenzymes#Male#Middle Aged#Monoamine Oxidase#Multiple System Atrophy#Nerve Degeneration#Parkinson Disease#Peptide Fragments#Phosphopyruvate Hydratase#Putamen#Substantia Nigra#Supranuclear Palsy, Progressive#Tubulin#Young Adult#alpha-Synuclein"
b'Auditory word comprehension is a cognitive process that involves the transformation of auditory signals into abstract concepts. Traditional lesion-based studies of stroke survivors with aphasia have suggested that neocortical regions adjacent to auditory cortex are primarily responsible for word comprehension. However, recent primary progressive aphasia and normal neurophysiological studies have challenged this concept, suggesting that the left temporal pole is crucial for word comprehension. Due to its vasculature, the temporal pole is not commonly completely lesioned in stroke survivors and this heterogeneity may have prevented its identification in lesion-based studies of auditory comprehension. We aimed to resolve this controversy using a combined voxel-based-and structural connectome-lesion symptom mapping approach, since cortical dysfunction after stroke can arise from cortical damage or from white matter disconnection. Magnetic resonance imaging (T1-weighted and diffusion tensor imaging-based structural connectome), auditory word comprehension and object recognition tests were obtained from 67 chronic left hemisphere stroke survivors. We observed that damage to the inferior temporal gyrus, to the fusiform gyrus and to a white matter network including the left posterior temporal region and its connections to the middle temporal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, and cingulate cortex, was associated with word comprehension difficulties after factoring out object recognition. These results suggest that the posterior lateral and inferior temporal regions are crucial for word comprehension, serving as a hub to integrate auditory and conceptual processing. Early processing linking auditory words to concepts is situated in posterior lateral temporal regions, whereas additional and deeper levels of semantic processing likely require more anterior temporal regions.10.1093/brain/awx169_video1awx169media15555638084001. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Brain Mapping#Comprehension#Connectome#Diffusion Tensor Imaging#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuropsychological Tests#Pattern Recognition, Physiological#Speech#Speech Perception#Stroke#Temporal Lobe#White Matter'
b'Timely initiation of effective therapy is crucial for preventing disability in multiple sclerosis; however, treatment response varies greatly among patients. Comprehensive predictive models of individual treatment response are lacking. Our aims were: (i) to develop predictive algorithms for individual treatment response using demographic, clinical and paraclinical predictors in patients with multiple sclerosis; and (ii) to evaluate accuracy, and internal and external validity of these algorithms. This study evaluated 27 demographic, clinical and paraclinical predictors of individual response to seven disease-modifying therapies in MSBase, a large global cohort study. Treatment response was analysed separately for disability progression, disability regression, relapse frequency, conversion to secondary progressive disease, change in the cumulative disease burden, and the probability of treatment discontinuation. Multivariable survival and generalized linear models were used, together with the principal component analysis to reduce model dimensionality and prevent overparameterization. Accuracy of the individual prediction was tested and its internal validity was evaluated in a separate, non-overlapping cohort. External validity was evaluated in a geographically distinct cohort, the Swedish Multiple Sclerosis Registry. In the training cohort (n = 8513), the most prominent modifiers of treatment response comprised age, disease duration, disease course, previous relapse activity, disability, predominant relapse phenotype and previous therapy. Importantly, the magnitude and direction of the associations varied among therapies and disease outcomes. Higher probability of disability progression during treatment with injectable therapies was predominantly associated with a greater disability at treatment start and the previous therapy. For fingolimod, natalizumab or mitoxantrone, it was mainly associated with lower pretreatment relapse activity. The probability of disability regression was predominantly associated with pre-baseline disability, therapy and relapse activity. Relapse incidence was associated with pretreatment relapse activity, age and relapsing disease course, with the strength of these associations varying among therapies. Accuracy and internal validity (n = 1196) of the resulting predictive models was high (>80%) for relapse incidence during the first year and for disability outcomes, moderate for relapse incidence in Years 2-4 and for the change in the cumulative disease burden, and low for conversion to secondary progressive disease and treatment discontinuation. External validation showed similar results, demonstrating high external validity for disability and relapse outcomes, moderate external validity for cumulative disease burden and low external validity for conversion to secondary progressive disease and treatment discontinuation. We conclude that demographic, clinical and paraclinical information helps predict individual response to disease-modifying therapies at the time of their commencement. labels: #Adult#Algorithms#Databases, Factual#Demography#Disability Evaluation#Disease Progression#Female#Forecasting#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Male#Multiple Sclerosis#Precision Medicine#Prognosis#Recurrence#Reproducibility of Results#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'See Lenck-Santini (doi:10.1093/awx205) for a scientific commentary on this article.\xe2\x80\x89Epileptic seizures represent altered neuronal network dynamics, but the temporal evolution and cellular substrates of the neuronal activity patterns associated with spontaneous seizures are not fully understood. We used simultaneous recordings from multiple neurons in the hippocampus and neocortex of rats with chronic temporal lobe epilepsy to demonstrate that subsets of cells discharge in a highly stereotypical sequential pattern during ictal events, and that these stereotypical patterns were reproducible across consecutive seizures. In contrast to the canonical view that principal cell discharges dominate ictal events, the ictal sequences were predominantly composed of fast-spiking, putative inhibitory neurons, which displayed unusually strong coupling to local field potential even before seizures. The temporal evolution of activity was characterized by unique dynamics where the most correlated neuronal pairs before seizure onset displayed the largest increases in correlation strength during the seizures. These results demonstrate the selective involvement of fast spiking interneurons in structured temporal sequences during spontaneous ictal events in hippocampal and neocortical circuits in experimental models of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy. labels: #Animals#Chronic Disease#Epilepsy, Temporal Lobe#Hippocampus#Interneurons#Male#Neocortex#Rats#Seizures#Temporal Lobe'
b"There are very few case series of patients with acute psychogenic memory loss (also known as dissociative/functional amnesia), and still fewer studies of outcome, or comparisons with neurological memory-disordered patients. Consequently, the literature on psychogenic amnesia is somewhat fragmented and offers little prognostic value for individual patients. In the present study, we reviewed the case records and neuropsychological findings in 53 psychogenic amnesia cases (ratio of 3:1, males:females), in comparison with 21 consecutively recruited neurological memory-disordered patients and 14 healthy control subjects. In particular, we examined the pattern of retrograde amnesia on an assessment of autobiographical memory (the Autobiographical Memory Interview). We found that our patients with psychogenic memory loss fell into four distinct groups, which we categorized as: (i) fugue state; (ii) fugue-to-focal retrograde amnesia; (iii) psychogenic focal retrograde amnesia following a minor neurological episode; and (iv) patients with gaps in their memories. While neurological cases were characterized by relevant neurological symptoms, a history of a past head injury was actually more common in our psychogenic cases (P = 0.012), perhaps reflecting a 'learning episode' predisposing to later psychological amnesia. As anticipated, loss of the sense of personal identity was confined to the psychogenic group. However, clinical depression, family/relationship problems, financial/employment problems, and failure to recognize the family were also statistically more common in that group. The pattern of autobiographical memory loss differed between the psychogenic groups: fugue cases showed a severe and uniform loss of memories for both facts and events across all time periods, whereas the two focal retrograde amnesia groups showed a 'reversed' temporal gradient with relative sparing of recent memories. After 3-6 months, the fugue patients had improved to normal scores for facts and near-normal scores for events. By contrast, the two focal retrograde amnesia groups showed less improvement and continued to show a reversed temporal gradient. In conclusion, the outcome in psychogenic amnesia, particularly those characterized by fugue, is better than generally supposed. Findings are interpreted in terms of Markowitsch's and Kopelman's models of psychogenic amnesia, and with respect to Anderson's neuroimaging findings in memory inhibition. labels: #Adult#Aged#Amnesia#Amnesia, Retrograde#Craniocerebral Trauma#Depression#Family Conflict#Female#Humans#London#Male#Memory, Episodic#Middle Aged#Neuropsychological Tests#Self Concept#Young Adult"
b'Recently, de novo mutations in the gene KCNA2, causing either a dominant-negative loss-of-function or a gain-of-function of the voltage-gated K+ channel Kv1.2, were described to cause a new molecular entity within the epileptic encephalopathies. Here, we report a cohort of 23 patients (eight previously described) with epileptic encephalopathy carrying either novel or known KCNA2 mutations, with the aim to detail the clinical phenotype associated with each of them, to characterize the functional effects of the newly identified mutations, and to assess genotype-phenotype associations. We identified five novel and confirmed six known mutations, three of which recurred in three, five and seven patients, respectively. Ten mutations were missense and one was a truncation mutation; de novo occurrence could be shown in 20 patients. Functional studies using a Xenopus oocyte two-microelectrode voltage clamp system revealed mutations with only loss-of-function effects (mostly dominant-negative current amplitude reduction) in eight patients or only gain-of-function effects (hyperpolarizing shift of voltage-dependent activation, increased amplitude) in nine patients. In six patients, the gain-of-function was diminished by an additional loss-of-function (gain-and loss-of-function) due to a hyperpolarizing shift of voltage-dependent activation combined with either decreased amplitudes or an additional hyperpolarizing shift of the inactivation curve. These electrophysiological findings correlated with distinct phenotypic features. The main differences were (i) predominant focal (loss-of-function) versus generalized (gain-of-function) seizures and corresponding epileptic discharges with prominent sleep activation in most cases with loss-of-function mutations; (ii) more severe epilepsy, developmental problems and ataxia, and atrophy of the cerebellum or even the whole brain in about half of the patients with gain-of-function mutations; and (iii) most severe early-onset phenotypes, occasionally with neonatal onset epilepsy and developmental impairment, as well as generalized and focal seizures and EEG abnormalities for patients with gain- and loss-of-function mutations. Our study thus indicates well represented genotype-phenotype associations between three subgroups of patients with KCNA2 encephalopathy according to the electrophysiological features of the mutations. labels: #Animals#Brain Diseases#Epilepsy#Genetic Association Studies#Kv1.2 Potassium Channel#Mutation#Oocytes#Phenotype#Xenopus'
b"Auditory verbal hallucinations (hearing voices) are typically associated with psychosis, but a minority of the general population also experience them frequently and without distress. Such 'non-clinical' experiences offer a rare and unique opportunity to study hallucinations apart from confounding clinical factors, thus allowing for the identification of symptom-specific mechanisms. Recent theories propose that hallucinations result from an imbalance of prior expectation and sensory information, but whether such an imbalance also influences auditory-perceptual processes remains unknown. We examine for the first time the cortical processing of ambiguous speech in people without psychosis who regularly hear voices. Twelve non-clinical voice-hearers and 17 matched controls completed a functional magnetic resonance imaging scan while passively listening to degraded speech ('sine-wave' speech), that was either potentially intelligible or unintelligible. Voice-hearers reported recognizing the presence of speech in the stimuli before controls, and before being explicitly informed of its intelligibility. Across both groups, intelligible sine-wave speech engaged a typical left-lateralized speech processing network. Notably, however, voice-hearers showed stronger intelligibility responses than controls in the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex and in the superior frontal gyrus. This suggests an enhanced involvement of attention and sensorimotor processes, selectively when speech was potentially intelligible. Altogether, these behavioural and neural findings indicate that people with hallucinatory experiences show distinct responses to meaningful auditory stimuli. A greater weighting towards prior knowledge and expectation might cause non-veridical auditory sensations in these individuals, but it might also spontaneously facilitate perceptual processing where such knowledge is required. This has implications for the understanding of hallucinations in clinical and non-clinical populations, and is consistent with current 'predictive processing' theories of psychosis. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Adult#Auditory Perception#Case-Control Studies#Female#Gyrus Cinguli#Hallucinations#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Prefrontal Cortex#Uncertainty#Young Adult"
b'A continuous isoelectric electroencephalogram reflects an interruption of endogenously-generated activity in cortical networks and systematically results in a complete dissolution of conscious processes. This electro-cerebral inactivity occurs during various brain disorders, including hypothermia, drug intoxication, long-lasting anoxia and brain trauma. It can also be induced in a therapeutic context, following the administration of high doses of barbiturate-derived compounds, to interrupt a hyper-refractory status epilepticus. Although altered sensory responses can be occasionally observed on an isoelectric electroencephalogram, the electrical membrane properties and synaptic responses of individual neurons during this cerebral state remain largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to characterize the intracellular correlates of a barbiturate-induced isoelectric electroencephalogram and to analyse the sensory-evoked synaptic responses that can emerge from a brain deprived of spontaneous electrical activity. We first examined the sensory responsiveness from patients suffering from intractable status epilepticus and treated by administration of thiopental. Multimodal sensory responses could be evoked on the flat electroencephalogram, including visually-evoked potentials that were significantly amplified and delayed, with a high trial-to-trial reproducibility compared to awake healthy subjects. Using an analogous pharmacological procedure to induce prolonged electro-cerebral inactivity in the rat, we could describe its cortical and subcortical intracellular counterparts. Neocortical, hippocampal and thalamo-cortical neurons were all silent during the isoelectric state and displayed a flat membrane potential significantly hyperpolarized compared with spontaneously active control states. Nonetheless, all recorded neurons could fire action potentials in response to intracellularly injected depolarizing current pulses and their specific intrinsic electrophysiological features were preserved. Manipulations of the membrane potential and intracellular injection of chloride in neocortical neurons failed to reveal an augmented synaptic inhibition during the isoelectric condition. Consistent with the sensory responses recorded from comatose patients, large and highly reproducible somatosensory-evoked potentials could be generated on the inactive electrocorticogram in rats. Intracellular recordings revealed that the underlying neocortical pyramidal cells responded to sensory stimuli by complex synaptic potentials able to trigger action potentials. As in patients, sensory responses in the isoelectric state were delayed compared to control responses and exhibited an elevated reliability during repeated stimuli. Our findings demonstrate that during prolonged isoelectric brain state neurons and synaptic networks are dormant rather than excessively inhibited, conserving their intrinsic properties and their ability to integrate and propagate environmental stimuli. labels: #Action Potentials#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Animals#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cerebral Cortex#Electric Stimulation#Electroencephalography#Evoked Potentials#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neural Pathways#Neurons#Pyramidal Cells#Rats#Status Epilepticus#Thiopental#Unconsciousness#Young Adult'
b'Mexiletine is the only drug with proven effect for treatment of non-dystrophic myotonia, but mexiletine is expensive, has limited availability and several side effects. There is therefore a need to identify other pharmacological compounds that can alleviate myotonia in non-dystrophic myotonias. Like mexiletine, lamotrigine is a sodium channel blocker, but unlike mexiletine, lamotrigine is available, inexpensive, and well tolerated. We investigated the potential of using lamotrigine for treatment of myotonia in patients with non-dystrophic myotonias. In this, randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-period cross-over study, we included adult outpatients recruited from all of Denmark with clinical myotonia and genetically confirmed myotonia congenita and paramyotonia congenita for investigation at the Copenhagen Neuromuscular Center. A pharmacy produced the medication and placebo, and randomized patients in blocks of 10. Participants and investigators were all blinded to treatment until the end of the trial. In two 8-week periods, oral lamotrigine or placebo capsules were provided once daily, with increasing doses (from 25 mg, 50 mg, 150 mg to 300 mg) every second week. The primary outcome was a severity score of myotonia, the Myotonic Behaviour Scale ranging from asymptomatic (score 1) to invalidating myotonia (score 6), reported by the participants during Weeks 0 and 8 in each treatment period. Clinical myotonia was also measured and side effects were monitored. The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT02159963) and EudraCT (2013-003309-24). We included 26 patients (10 females, 16 males, age: 19-74 years) from 13 November 2013 to 6 July 2015. Twenty-two completed the entire study. One patient withdrew due to an allergic reaction to lamotrigine. Three patients withdrew for reasons not related to the trial intervention. The Myotonic Behaviour Scale at baseline was 3.2 \xc2\xb1 1.1, which changed after treatment with lamotrigine by 1.3 \xc2\xb1 0.2 scores (P<0.001), but not with placebo (0.2 \xc2\xb1 0.1 scores, P = 0.4). The estimated effect size was 1.0 \xc2\xb1 0.2 (95% confidence interval = 0.5-1.5, P<0.001, n = 22). The standardized effect size of lamotrigine was 1.5 (confidence interval: 1.2-1.8). Number needed to treat was 2.6 (P = 0.006, n = 26). No adverse or unsuspected event occurred. Common side effects occurred in both treatment groups; number needed to harm was 5.2 (P = 0.11, n = 26). Lamotrigine effectively reduced myotonia, emphasized by consistency between effects on patient-related outcomes and objective outcomes. The frequency of side effects was acceptable. Considering this and the high availability and low cost of the drug, we suggest that lamotrigine should be used as the first line of treatment for myotonia in treatment-naive patients with non-dystrophic myotonias. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cross-Over Studies#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Myotonia Congenita#Myotonic Disorders#Treatment Outcome#Triazines#Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel Blockers#Young Adult'
b"Chronic lymphocytic inflammation with pontine perivascular enhancement responsive to steroids (CLIPPERS) is a central nervous system inflammatory syndrome predominantly affecting the brainstem, cerebellum, and spinal cord. Following its initial description, the salient features of CLIPPERS have been confirmed and expanded upon, but the lack of formalized diagnostic criteria has led to reports of patients with dissimilar features purported to have CLIPPERS. We evaluated clinical, radiological and pathological features of patients referred for suspected CLIPPERS and propose diagnostic criteria to discriminate CLIPPERS from non-CLIPPERS aetiologies. Thirty-five patients were evaluated for suspected CLIPPERS. Clinical and neuroimaging data were reviewed by three neurologists to confirm CLIPPERS by consensus agreement. Neuroimaging and neuropathology were reviewed by experienced neuroradiologists and neuropathologists, respectively, both of whom were blinded to the clinical data. CLIPPERS was diagnosed in 23 patients (18 male and five female) and 12 patients had a non-CLIPPERS diagnosis. CLIPPERS patients' median age of onset was 58 years (interquartile range, 24-72) and were followed a median of 44 months (interquartile range 38-63). Non-CLIPPERS patients' median age of onset was 52 years (interquartile range, 39-59) and were followed a median of 27 months (interquartile range, 14-47). Clinical symptoms of gait ataxia, diplopia, cognitive impairment, and facial paraesthesia did not discriminate CLIPPERS from non-CLIPPERS. Marked clinical and radiological corticosteroid responsiveness was observed in CLIPPERS (23/23), and clinical worsening occurred in all 12 CLIPPERS cases when corticosteroids were discontinued. Corticosteroid responsiveness was common but not universal in non-CLIPPERS [clinical improvement (8/12); radiological improvement (2/12); clinical worsening on discontinuation (3/8)]. CLIPPERS patients had brainstem predominant perivascular gadolinium enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging that were discriminated from non-CLIPPERS by: homogenous gadolinium enhancing nodules<3 mm in diameter without ring-enhancement or mass effect, and homogenous T2 signal abnormality not significantly exceeding the T1 enhancement. Brain neuropathology on 14 CLIPPERS cases demonstrated marked CD3-positive T-lymphocyte, mild B-lymphocyte and moderate macrophage infiltrates, with perivascular predominance as well as diffuse parenchymal infiltration (14/14), present in meninges, white and grey matter, associated with variable tissue destruction, astrogliosis and secondary myelin loss. Clinical, radiological and pathological feature define CLIPPERS syndrome and are differentiated from non-CLIPPERS aetiologies by neuroradiological and neuropathological findings. labels: #Adrenal Cortex Hormones#Adult#Age of Onset#Aged#Encephalitis#Female#Gadolinium#Humans#Inflammation#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Syndrome#Young Adult"
b'De novo in-frame deletions and duplications in the SPTAN1 gene, encoding the non-erythrocyte \xce\xb1II spectrin, have been associated with severe West syndrome with hypomyelination and pontocerebellar atrophy. We aimed at comprehensively delineating the phenotypic spectrum associated with SPTAN1 mutations. Using different molecular genetic techniques, we identified 20 patients with a pathogenic or likely pathogenic SPTAN1 variant and reviewed their clinical, genetic and imaging data. SPTAN1 de novo alterations included seven unique missense variants and nine in-frame deletions/duplications of which 12 were novel. The recurrent three-amino acid duplication p.(Asp2303_Leu2305dup) occurred in five patients. Our patient cohort exhibited a broad spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes, comprising six patients with mild to moderate intellectual disability, with or without epilepsy and behavioural disorders, and 14 patients with infantile epileptic encephalopathy, of which 13 had severe neurodevelopmental impairment and four died in early childhood. Imaging studies suggested that the severity of neurological impairment and epilepsy correlates with that of structural abnormalities as well as the mutation type and location. Out of seven patients harbouring mutations outside the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimerization domain, four had normal brain imaging and three exhibited moderately progressive brain and/or cerebellar atrophy. Twelve of 13 patients with mutations located within the spectrin heterodimer contact site exhibited severe and progressive brain, brainstem and cerebellar atrophy, with hypomyelination in most. We used fibroblasts from five patients to study spectrin aggregate formation by Triton-X extraction and immunocytochemistry followed by fluorescence microscopy. \xce\xb1II/\xce\xb2II aggregates and \xce\xb1II spectrin in the insoluble protein fraction were observed in fibroblasts derived from patients with the mutations p.(Glu2207del), p.(Asp2303_Leu2305dup) and p.(Arg2308_Met2309dup), all falling in the nucleation site of the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimer region. Molecular modelling of the seven SPTAN1 amino acid changes provided preliminary evidence for structural alterations of the A-, B- and/or C-helices within each of the mutated spectrin repeats. We conclude that SPTAN1-related disorders comprise a wide spectrum of neurodevelopmental phenotypes ranging from mild to severe and progressive. Spectrin aggregate formation in fibroblasts with mutations in the \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 heterodimerization domain seems to be associated with a severe neurodegenerative course and suggests that the amino acid stretch from Asp2303 to Met2309 in the \xce\xb120 repeat is important for \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 spectrin heterodimer formation and/or \xce\xb1II spectrin function. labels: #Adolescent#Atrophy#Brain#Brain Diseases#Carrier Proteins#Cells, Cultured#Child#Child, Preschool#Disease Progression#Epilepsy#Female#Fibroblasts#Humans#Male#Microfilament Proteins#Models, Molecular#Mutation#Neurodevelopmental Disorders#Phenotype#Protein Aggregation, Pathological#Young Adult'
b"The mitochondrial proteins TRAP1 and HTRA2 have previously been shown to be phosphorylated in the presence of the Parkinson's disease kinase PINK1 but the downstream signalling is unknown. HTRA2 and PINK1 loss of function causes parkinsonism in humans and animals. Here, we identified TRAP1 as an interactor of HTRA2 using an unbiased mass spectrometry approach. In our human cell models, TRAP1 overexpression is protective, rescuing HTRA2 and PINK1-associated mitochondrial dysfunction and suggesting that TRAP1 acts downstream of HTRA2 and PINK1. HTRA2 regulates TRAP1 protein levels, but TRAP1 is not a direct target of HTRA2 protease activity. Following genetic screening of Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls, we also report the first TRAP1 mutation leading to complete loss of functional protein in a patient with late onset Parkinson's disease. Analysis of fibroblasts derived from the patient reveal that oxygen consumption, ATP output and reactive oxygen species are increased compared to healthy individuals. This is coupled with an increased pool of free NADH, increased mitochondrial biogenesis, triggering of the mitochondrial unfolded protein response, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential and sensitivity to mitochondrial removal and apoptosis. These data highlight the role of TRAP1 in the regulation of energy metabolism and mitochondrial quality control. Interestingly, the diabetes drug metformin reverses mutation-associated alterations on energy metabolism, mitochondrial biogenesis and restores mitochondrial membrane potential. In summary, our data show that TRAP1 acts downstream of PINK1 and HTRA2 for mitochondrial fine tuning, whereas TRAP1 loss of function leads to reduced control of energy metabolism, ultimately impacting mitochondrial membrane potential. These findings offer new insight into mitochondrial pathologies in Parkinson's disease and provide new prospects for targeted therapies. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphate#Apoptosis#Case-Control Studies#Cells, Cultured#Fibroblasts#HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins#High-Temperature Requirement A Serine Peptidase 2#Humans#Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial#Metformin#Mitochondria#Mitochondrial Proteins#Mutation#NAD#Organelle Biogenesis#Oxygen Consumption#Parkinson Disease#Protein Kinases#Reactive Oxygen Species#Serine Endopeptidases"
b'BACKGROUND: Recently, 2 randomized controlled trials showed that the instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR), a resting\xc2\xa0coronary physiological index, is noninferior to fractional flow reserve for guiding revascularization. The resting distal to aortic coronary pressure (Pd/Pa) measured at rest is another adenosine-free index widely available in the cardiac catheterization laboratory; however, little is known about the agreement of Pd/Pausing iFR as a reference standard.OBJECTIVES: The goal of this study was to investigate the agreement of Pd/Pawith iFR.METHODS: A total of 763 patients were prospectively enrolled from 12 institutions. iFR and Pd/Pawere measured under resting conditions. Using iFR\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa40.89 as a reference standard, the agreement of Pd/Paand its best cutoff value were assessed.RESULTS: According to the independent core laboratory analysis, iFR and Pd/Pawere analyzable in 627 and 733 patients (82.2% vs. 96.1%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001), respectively. The median iFR and Pd/Pawere 0.90 (interquartile range: 0.85 to 0.94) and\xc2\xa00.92 (interquartile range: 0.88 to 0.95), and the 2 indices were highly correlated (R2\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.93; p\xc2\xa0<0.001; iFR\xc2\xa0= 1.31 *\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa-0.31). According to the receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis, Pd/Pashowed excellent agreement (area\xc2\xa0under the curve:\xc2\xa00.98; 95% confidence interval: 0.97 to 0.99; p\xc2\xa0<0.001) with a best cutoff value of Pd/Pa\xc2\xa0\xe2\x89\xa40.91. The diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were 93.0%, 91.4%, 94.4%, 93.3%, and 92.7%, respectively. These results were similar in patients with acute coronary syndrome and stable angina.CONCLUSIONS: Pd/Pawas analyzable in a significantly higher number of patients than iFR. Pd/Pashowed excellent agreement with iFR, suggesting that it could be applied clinically in a similar fashion. (Can Contrast Injection Better Approximate FFR Compared to Pure Resting Physiology? [CONTRAST]; NCT02184117). labels: #Aged#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Determination#Coronary Circulation#Coronary Vessels#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Reference Standards'
b'BACKGROUND: Instantaneous wave-free ratio (iFR) has been used in clinical practice to identify functionally significant\xc2\xa0stenosis and to guide treatment strategy. However, there are limited clinical data regarding another resting pressure-derived index, resting distal to aortic coronary pressure (Pd/Pa), and similarities and differences between resting\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa and iFR.OBJECTIVES: The authors investigated the changes in resting Pd/Pa and iFR according to anatomic and hemodynamic stenosis severity and their prognostic implications.METHODS: From the 3V FFR-FRIENDS (Clinical Implication of 3-vessel Fractional Flow Reserve) and the IRIS-FFR (Study\xc2\xa0of the Natural History of FFR Guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention) studies, 1,024 vessels (n = 435) with\xc2\xa0available pre-intervention resting Pd/Pa and iFR were used to explore the changes in resting physiological indices\xc2\xa0according to percent diameter stenosis. Among 115 patients who underwent13N-ammonia positron emission tomography, the changes in those indices according to basal and hyperemic stenosis resistance and absolute hyperemic myocardial\xc2\xa0blood flow were compared. The association between physiological indices and the risk of 2-year major adverse cardiac events (MACE) (a composite of cardiac death, myocardial infarction, and ischemia-driven revascularization) were analyzed among 375 deferred patients.RESULTS: There was a significant linear correlation between resting Pd/Pa and iFR (R\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.970; p\xc2\xa0<0.001, iFR\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa01.370\xc2\xa0\xc3\x97 resting Pd/Pa\xc2\xa0- 0.370). Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR changed significantly according to percent diameter stenosis, basal\xc2\xa0and\xc2\xa0hyperemic stenosis resistance, and hyperemic absolute myocardial blood flow (all p values\xc2\xa0<0.001). Percent difference of\xc2\xa0iFR according to the increase in anatomic and hemodynamic severity was higher than that of resting Pd/Pa. Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR showed a significant association with the risk of 2-year MACE (resting Pd/Pa hazard ratio [per\xc2\xa00.10\xc2\xa0increase]:\xc2\xa00.480; 95% confidence interval: 0.250 to 0.923; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.027; iFR hazard ratio [per 0.1 increase]: 0.586;\xc2\xa095%\xc2\xa0confidence interval: 0.373 to 0.919; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.020) in deferred patients. However, the difference between the upper- and lower-bound estimated MACE rates according to the approximate measurement variability of each index was significantly higher with resting Pd/Pa compared with iFR (resting Pd/Pa 3.85 \xc2\xb1 4.00% and iFR 3.27 \xc2\xb1 3.39%; p\xc2\xa0<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: Both resting Pd/Pa and iFR showed similar associations with anatomic and hemodynamic stenosis severity and the risk of MACE. However, iFR was more sensitive to the difference in stenosis severity and showed a\xc2\xa0lower\xc2\xa0maximum difference in estimated MACE risk influenced by the measurement variability compared with resting\xc2\xa0Pd/Pa. (Clinical Implication of 3-Vessel Fractional Flow Reserve [3V FFR-FRIENDS]; NCT01621438; and\xc2\xa0Study\xc2\xa0of\xc2\xa0the\xc2\xa0Natural History of FFR Guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention [IRIS-FFR]; NCT01366404). labels: #Angina, Stable#Aorta, Thoracic#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Stenosis#Coronary Vessels#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fractional Flow Reserve, Myocardial#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Positron-Emission Tomography#Severity of Illness Index'
b'BACKGROUND: Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) binds low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR), preventing its recycling. PCSK9 is a risk predictor and a biotarget in atherosclerosis progression.OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine whether the PCSK9-LDLR axis could predict risk in patients with heart failure (HF).METHODS: The BIOSTAT-CHF (Biology Study to Tailored Treatment in Chronic Heart Failure) is a multicenter, multinational, prospective, observational study that included patients with worsening HF signs and/or symptoms. The primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and the composite of mortality or unscheduled hospitalizations for HF. We implemented Cox proportional hazard regression to determine the simultaneously adjusted effect of PCSK9 and LDLR on both outcomes when added to the previously validated BIOSTAT-CHF risk scores.RESULTS: This study included 2,174 patients (mean age: 68 \xc2\xb1 12 years; 53.2% had a history of ischemic heart disease). Median (interquartile range) PCSK9 and LDLR levels were 1.81\xc2\xa0U/ml (1.45 to 2.18) and 2.98\xc2\xa0U/ml (2.45 to 3.53), respectively. During follow-up, 569 deaths (26.2%) and 896 (41.2%) composite endpoints were ascertained. A multivariable analysis, which included BIOSTAT-CHF risk scores, LDLR, and statin treatment as covariates, revealed a positive linear association between PCSK9 levels and the risk of mortality (hazard ratio [HR]: 1.24; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.04 to 1.49; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.020) and the composite endpoint (HR: 1.21; 95% CI: 1.05 to 1.40; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.010). A similar analysis for LDLR revealed a negative association with mortality (HR: 0.86; 95% CI: 0.76 to 0.98; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.025) and the composite endpoint (HR: 0.92; 95% CI: 0.83 to 1.01; p\xc2\xa0=\xc2\xa00.087). Including PCSK9 and LDLR improved risk score performance.CONCLUSIONS: The PCSK9-LDLR axis was associated with outcomes in patients with HF. Future studies must\xc2\xa0assess whether PCSK9 inhibition will result in better outcomes in HF. labels: #Aged#Forecasting#Heart Failure#Humans#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Proportional Hazards Models#Proprotein Convertase 9#Prospective Studies#Receptors, LDL#Risk'
b'BACKGROUND: Sustained sympathetic activation contributes to the progression of myocardial cell injury, cardiac fibrosis, and left ventricular (LV) dysfunction in heart failure (HF).OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the effects of radiofrequency renal nerve denervation (RF-RDN) on the pathobiology of HF and the interaction between the renal sympathetic nerves and natriuretic peptide (NP) metabolism.METHODS: Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were subjected to 45\xc2\xa0min of coronary artery ligation and reperfusion for 12\xc2\xa0weeks. At 4\xc2\xa0weeks post-reperfusion, SHR and WKY underwent either bilateral RF-RDN or sham-RDN.RESULTS: Following RF-RDN in both strains, LV ejection fraction remained significantly above those levels in respective sham-RDN rats, and at the end of the 12-week study, rats in both strains had significantly reduced LV fibrosis and improved vascular function. RF-RDN therapy significantly improved vascular reactivity to endothelium-dependent and\xc2\xa0-independent vasodilators as well as vascular compliance in the setting of severe HF. Improvements in LV function were accompanied by significant elevations in circulating NP as compared to those associated with sham-RDN. Further investigation into the cause of increased circulating NP levels demonstrated that RF-RDN significantly inhibited renal neprilysin activity in SHR and WKY with HF. Likewise, chronic treatment with the beta1antagonist bisoprolol inhibited renal neprilysin activity and increased circulation NP levels in WKY with HF.CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies a novel endogenous pathway by which the renal nerves participate in the degradation of cardioprotective NP. Furthermore, removal of the influence of the renal nerves on kidney function attenuates renal neprilysin activity, augments circulating NP levels, reduces myocardial fibrosis, and improves LV function in the setting of HF. labels: #Aminobutyrates#Angiotensin II#Animals#Bisoprolol#Blood Pressure#Echocardiography#Heart Failure#Kidney#Myocardium#Neprilysin#Nitrites#Norepinephrine#Rats#Rats, Inbred SHR#Rats, Inbred WKY#Renal Artery#Renin#Reperfusion Injury#Sympathectomy#Tetrazoles#Ventricular Function, Left'
b"Tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis (Tdap) vaccine is recommended during the third trimester of each pregnancy to provide protection to newborns, who are at risk for pertussis-related morbidity and mortality (1). As part of its case-control surveillance study of medications and birth defects, the Birth Defects Study of the Slone Epidemiology Center at Boston University (the Birth Defects Study) has recorded data on vaccinations received during pregnancy since 2006. Among 5,606 mothers of infants without structural birth defects in this population (control group),<1% had received Tdap vaccine before 2009. By 2012, the percentage of mothers of infants in the control group (control infants) who had received Tdap increased to approximately 9%, and then in 2013 and continuing through 2015, increased markedly, to 28% and 54%, respectively. As the prevalence of maternal Tdap vaccination increased, so did the proportion of pregnant women who received Tdap in the third trimester, as recommended (94%-100% from 2010 to 2015). The vast majority of Tdap vaccinations (96%) were received in a traditional health care setting (e.g., the office of the woman's obstetrician or primary care physician or her prenatal clinic). Increasing vaccination coverage during pregnancy could help reduce the impact of pertussis on infant morbidity and mortality. labels: #Diphtheria#Diphtheria-Tetanus-acellular Pertussis Vaccines#Female#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Trimesters#Tetanus#United States#Vaccination#Whooping Cough"
b'Mortality surveillance and vital registration are limited in Sierra Leone, a country with one of the highest mortality rates among children aged<5 years worldwide, approximately 120 deaths per 1,000 live births (1,2). To inform efforts to strengthen surveillance, stillbirths and deaths in children aged<5 years from multiple surveillance streams in Bombali Sebora chiefdom were retrospectively reviewed. In total, during January 2015-November 2016, 930 deaths in children aged<5 years were identified, representing 73.3% of the 1,269 deaths that were expected based on modeled estimates. The "117" telephone alert system established during the Ebola virus disease (Ebola) epidemic captured 683 (73.4%) of all reported deaths in children aged<5 years, and was the predominant reporting source for stillbirths (n = 172). In the absence of complete vital events registration, 117 call alerts markedly improved the completeness of reporting of stillbirths and deaths in children aged<5 years. labels: #Child Mortality#Child, Preschool#Epidemics#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#Infant#Infant Mortality#Infant, Newborn#Mandatory Reporting#Population Surveillance#Sierra Leone#Stillbirth'
b'Diagnoses of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection among women declined 17% during 2011-2015, and a total of 7,498 women received a diagnosis of HIV infection in 2015 (1). Although black or African American (black) women accounted for only 12% of the U.S. female population, 60% of women with newly diagnosed HIV infection were black (1,2). By the end of 2014, an estimated 255,900 women were living with HIV infection (3), including approximately 12% who did not know they were infected; in addition, approximately 45% of women who had received a diagnosis had not achieved viral suppression (3). HIV testing is an important public health strategy for identifying women with HIV infection and linking them to HIV medical care. Analysis of CDC-funded program data submitted by 61 health departments in 2015 indicated that among 4,749 women tested who received a diagnosis of HIV infection, 2,951 (62%) had received a diagnosis in the past (previous diagnosis), and 1,798 (38%) were receiving a diagnosis for the first time (new diagnosis). Of those who had received a previous diagnosis, 87% were not in HIV medical care at the time of the current test. Testing and identifying women who are living with HIV infection but who are not in care (regardless of when they received their first diagnosis) and rapidly linking them to care so they can receive antiretroviral therapy and become virally suppressed are essential for reducing HIV infection among all women. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Continuity of Patient Care#Female#HIV Infections#Health Facilities#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Mass Screening#Puerto Rico#Sexual Partners#United States#United States Virgin Islands#Young Adult'
b"PROBLEM/CONDITION: Drug overdoses are a leading cause of injury death in the United States, resulting in approximately 52,000 deaths in 2015. Understanding differences in illicit drug use, illicit drug use disorders, and overall drug overdose deaths in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas is important for informing public health programs, interventions, and policies.REPORTING PERIOD: Illicit drug use and drug use disorders during 2003-2014, and drug overdose deaths during 1999-2015.DESCRIPTION OF DATA: The National Survey of Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) collects information through face-to-face household interviews about the use of illicit drugs, alcohol, and tobacco among the U.S. noninstitutionalized civilian population aged \xe2\x89\xa512 years. Respondents include residents of households and noninstitutional group quarters (e.g., shelters, rooming houses, dormitories, migratory workers' camps, and halfway houses) and civilians living on military bases. NSDUH variables include sex, age, race/ethnicity, residence (metropolitan/nonmetropolitan), annual household income, self-reported drug use, and drug use disorders. National Vital Statistics System Mortality (NVSS-M) data for U.S. residents include information from death certificates filed in the 50 states and the District of Columbia. Cases were selected with an underlying cause of death based on the ICD-10 codes for drug overdoses (X40-X44, X60-X64, X85, and Y10-Y14). NVSS-M variables include decedent characteristics (sex, age, and race/ethnicity) and information on intent (unintentional, suicide, homicide, or undetermined), location of death (medical facility, in a home, or other [including nursing homes, hospices, unknown, and other locations]) and county of residence (metropolitan/nonmetropolitan). Metropolitan/nonmetropolitan status is assigned independently in each data system. NSDUH uses a three-category system: Core Based Statistical Area (CBSA) of \xe2\x89\xa51 million persons; CBSA of<1 million persons; and not a CBSA, which for simplicity were labeled large metropolitan, small metropolitan, and nonmetropolitan. Deaths from NVSS-M are categorized by the county of residence of the decedent using CDC's National Center for Health Statistics 2013 Urban-Rural Classification Scheme, collapsed into two categories (metropolitan and nonmetropolitan).RESULTS: Although both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas experienced significant increases from 2003-2005 to 2012-2014 in self-reported past-month use of illicit drugs, the prevalence was highest for the large metropolitan areas compared with small metropolitan or nonmetropolitan areas throughout the study period. Notably, past-month use of illicit drugs declined over the study period for the youngest respondents (aged 12-17 years). The prevalence of past-year illicit drug use disorders among persons using illicit drugs in the past year varied by metropolitan/nonmetropolitan status and changed over time. Across both metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas, the prevalence of past-year illicit drug use disorders declined during 2003-2014. In 2015, approximately six times as many drug overdose deaths occurred in metropolitan areas than occurred in nonmetropolitan areas (metropolitan: 45,059; nonmetropolitan: 7,345). Drug overdose death rates (per 100,000 population) for metropolitan areas were higher than in nonmetropolitan areas in 1999 (6.4 versus 4.0), however, the rates converged in 2004, and by 2015, the nonmetropolitan rate (17.0) was slightly higher than the metropolitan rate (16.2).INTERPRETATION: Drug use and subsequent overdoses continue to be a critical and complicated public health challenge across metropolitan/nonmetropolitan areas. The decline in illicit drug use by youth and the lower prevalence of illicit drug use disorders in rural areas during 2012-2014 are encouraging signs. However, the increasing rate of drug overdose deaths in rural areas, which surpassed rates in urban areas, is cause for concern.PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIONS: Understanding the differences between metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas in drug use, drug use disorders, and drug overdose deaths can help public health professionals to identify, monitor, and prioritize responses. Consideration of where persons live and where they die from overdose could enhance specific overdose prevention interventions, such as training on naloxone administration or rescue breathing. Educating prescribers on CDC's guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain (Dowell D, Haegerich TM, Chou R. CDC guideline for prescribing opioids for chronic pain-United States, 2016. MMWR Recomm Rep 2016;66[No. RR-1]) and facilitating better access to medication-assisted treatment with methadone, buprenorphine, or naltrexone could benefit communities with high opioid use disorder rates. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Drug Overdose#Female#Health Surveys#Humans#Male#Rural Population#Street Drugs#Substance-Related Disorders#United States#Urban Population#Young Adult"
b'CDC has updated its interim guidance for U.S. health care providers caring for infants with possible congenital Zika virus infection (1) in response to recently published updated guidance for health care providers caring for pregnant women with possible Zika virus exposure (2), unknown sensitivity and specificity of currently available diagnostic tests for congenital Zika virus infection, and recognition of additional clinical findings associated with congenital Zika virus infection. All infants born to mothers with possible Zika virus exposure* during pregnancy should receive a standard evaluation at birth and at each subsequent well-child visit including a comprehensive physical examination, age-appropriate vision screening and developmental monitoring and screening using validated tools (3-5), and newborn hearing screen at birth, preferably using auditory brainstem response (ABR) methodology (6). Specific guidance for laboratory testing and clinical evaluation are provided for three clinical scenarios in the setting of possible maternal Zika virus exposure: 1) infants with clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome regardless of maternal testing results, 2) infants without clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome who were born to mothers with laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection,\xe2\x80\xa0and 3) infants without clinical findings consistent with congenital Zika syndrome who were born to mothers without laboratory evidence of possible Zika virus infection. Infants in the first two scenarios should receive further testing and evaluation for Zika virus, whereas for the third group, further testing and clinical evaluation for Zika virus are not recommended. Health care providers should remain alert for abnormal findings (e.g., postnatal-onset microcephaly and eye abnormalities without microcephaly) in infants with possible congenital Zika virus exposure without apparent abnormalities at birth. labels: #Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Female#Humans#Infant#Practice Guidelines as Topic#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications, Infectious#United States#Zika Virus Infection'
b"Health communication and social mobilization efforts to improve the public's knowledge, attitudes, and practices (KAP) regarding Ebola virus disease (Ebola) were important in controlling the 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic in Guinea (1), which resulted in 3,814 reported Ebola cases and 2,544 deaths.* Most Ebola cases in Guinea resulted from the washing and touching of persons and corpses infected with Ebola without adequate infection control precautions at home, at funerals, and in health facilities (2,3). As the 18-month epidemic waned in August 2015, Ebola KAP were assessed in a survey among residents of Guinea recruited through multistage cluster sampling procedures in the nation's eight administrative regions (Bok\xc3\xa9, Conakry, Faranah, Kankan, Kindia, Lab\xc3\xa9, Mamou, and Nz\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9kor\xc3\xa9). Nearly all participants (92%) were aware of Ebola prevention measures, but 27% believed that Ebola could be transmitted by ambient air, and 49% believed they could protect themselves from Ebola by avoiding mosquito bites. Of the participants, 95% reported taking actions to avoid getting Ebola, especially more frequent handwashing (93%). Nearly all participants (91%) indicated they would send relatives with suspected Ebola to Ebola treatment centers, and 89% said they would engage special Ebola burial teams to remove corpses with suspected Ebola from homes. Of the participants, 66% said they would prefer to observe an Ebola-affected corpse from a safe distance at burials rather than practice traditional funeral rites involving corpse contact. The findings were used to guide the ongoing epidemic response and recovery efforts, including health communication, social mobilization, and planning, to prevent and respond to future outbreaks or sporadic cases of Ebola. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Epidemics#Female#Guinea#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Hemorrhagic Fever, Ebola#Humans#Male#Young Adult"
b'Here, we present the use of ethoscopes, which are machines for high-throughput analysis of behavior in Drosophila and other animals. Ethoscopes provide a software and hardware solution that is reproducible and easily scalable. They perform, in real-time, tracking and profiling of behavior by using a supervised machine learning algorithm, are able to deliver behaviorally triggered stimuli to flies in a feedback-loop mode, and are highly customizable and open source. Ethoscopes can be built easily by using 3D printing technology and rely on Raspberry Pi microcomputers and Arduino boards to provide affordable and flexible hardware. All software and construction specifications are available at http://lab.gilest.ro/ethoscope. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Behavior, Animal#Drosophila melanogaster#Ethology#Machine Learning#Microcomputers#Printing, Three-Dimensional#Reproducibility of Results#Software'
b'In a 2016 survey of 704 National Science Foundation (NSF) Biological Sciences Directorate principal investigators (BIO PIs), nearly 90% indicated they are currently or will soon be analyzing large data sets. BIO PIs considered a range of computational needs important to their work, including high performance computing (HPC), bioinformatics support, multistep workflows, updated analysis software, and the ability to store, share, and publish data. Previous studies in the United States and Canada emphasized infrastructure needs. However, BIO PIs said the most pressing unmet needs are training in data integration, data management, and scaling analyses for HPC-acknowledging that data science skills will be required to build a deeper understanding of life. This portends a growing data knowledge gap in biology and challenges institutions and funding agencies to redouble their support for computational training in biology. labels: #Computational Biology#Databases, Genetic#Humans#Research Personnel#United States'
b'OBJECTIVE: The United States is amidst an opioid epidemic, including synthetic opioids that may result in rapid death, leaving minimal opportunity for bystander rescue. We pilot tested a behavioral intervention to reduce the occurrence of opioid overdose among opioid dependent persons at high-risk for subsequent overdose.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a single-blinded randomized-controlled trial of a repeated dose motivational interviewing intervention (REBOOT) to reduce overdose versus treatment as usual, defined as information and referrals, over 16 months at the San Francisco Department of Public Health from 2014-2016. Participants were 18-65 years of age, had opioid use disorder by Structured Clinical Interview, active opioid use, opioid overdose within 5 years, and prior receipt of naloxone kits. The intervention was administered at months 0, 4, 8, and 12, preceded by the assessment which was also administered at month 16. Dual primary outcomes were any overdose event and number of events, collected by computer-assisted personal interview, as well as any fatal overdose events per vital records.RESULTS: A total of 78 persons were screened and 63 enrolled. Mean age was 43 years, 67% were born male, 65% White, 17% African-American, and 14% Latino. Ninety-two percent of visits and 93% of counseling sessions were completed. At baseline, 33.3% of participants had experienced an overdose in the past four months, with a similar mean number of overdoses in both arms (p = 0.95); 29% overdosed during follow-up. By intention-to-treat, participants assigned to REBOOT were less likely to experience any overdose (incidence rate ratio [IRR] 0.62 [95%CI 0.41-0.92, p = 0.019) and experienced fewer overdose events (IRR 0.46, 95%CI 0.24-0.90, p = 0.023), findings that were robust to sensitivity analyses. There were no differences between arms in days of opioid use, substance use treatment, or naloxone carriage.CONCLUSIONS: REBOOT reduced the occurrence of any opioid overdose and the number of overdoses.TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov NCT02093559. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Drug Overdose#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Narcotic Antagonists#Opioid-Related Disorders#Pilot Projects#Risk Factors#Single-Blind Method#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"INTRODUCTION: Patients with cancer frequently suffer from emotional distress, characterized by psychological symptoms such as anxiety or depression. The presence of psychological symptoms combined with the complex nature of oncology processes can negatively impact patients' quality of life. We aimed to determine the impact of a relaxation protocol on improving quality of life in a sample of oncological patients treated in the Spanish National Public Health System.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a multicenter interventional study without a control group. In total, 272 patients with different oncologic pathologies and showing symptoms of anxiety were recruited from 10 Spanish public hospitals. The intervention comprised abbreviated progressive muscle relaxation training, according to Bernstein and Borkovec. This was followed by weekly telephone calls to each patient over a 1-month period. We collected sociodemographic variables related to the disease process, including information about mental health and the intervention. Patients' quality of life was assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire. Bivariate and univariate analyses were performed, along with an analysis of multiple correspondences to identify subgroups of patients with similar variations on the FACT-G.RESULTS: Patients showed statistically significant improvements on the FACT-G overall score (W = 16806; p<0.001), with an initial mean score of 55.33\xc2\xb110.42 and a final mean score of 64.49\xc2\xb17.70. We also found significant improvements for all subscales: emotional wellbeing (W = 13118; p<0.001), functional wellbeing (W = 16155.5; p<0.001), physical wellbeing (W = 8885.5; p<0.001), and social and family context (W = -1840; p = 0.037).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with cancer who learned and practiced abbreviated progressive muscle relaxation experienced improvement in their perceived quality of life as measured by the FACT-G. Our findings support a previous assumption that complementary techniques (including relaxation techniques) are effective in improving the quality of life of patients with cancer. labels: #Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Muscle Relaxation#Neoplasms#Quality of Life#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: Preliminary studies suggested that Aboriginal Canadians had disproportionately higher rates of infection, hospitalization, and critical illness due to pandemic Influenza A(H1N1)pdm09.METHODS: We used a prospective cohort study of critically ill patients with laboratory confirmed or probable H1N1 infection in Canada between April 16 2009 and April 12 2010. Baseline characteristics, medical interventions, clinical course and outcomes were compared between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal patients. The primary outcome was hospital mortality.RESULTS: Of 647 critically ill adult patients with known ethnicity, 81 (12.5%) were Aboriginal, 566 (87.5%) were non-Aboriginal. Aboriginal patients were younger (mean [SD] age 40.7[13.7]v. 49.0[14.9] years, p<0.001) and more frequently female (64.2% v. 51.1%, p = 0.027). Rates of any co-morbid illnesses (Aboriginal v. non-Aboriginal, 92.6% v. 91.0%, p = 0.63), time from symptom onset to hospital admission (median [interquartile range] 4 [2-7]v. 4 [2-7] days, p = 0.84), time to ICU admission (5 [3-8]v.5 [3-8] days, p = 0.91), and severity of illness (mean APACHE II score (19.9 [9.6]v. 21.1 [9.9], p = 0.33) were similar. A similar proportion of Aboriginal patients received antiviral medication before ICU admission than non-Aboriginal patients (91.4% v. 93.8%, p = 0.40). Among Aboriginal versus non-Aboriginal patients, the need for mechanical ventilation (93.8% v. 88.6%, p = 0.15), ventilator-free days (14 [3-23]v. 17 [0-24], p = 0.62), durations of stay in ICU (13[7-19.5]v. 11 [5-8] days, p = 0.05), hospital (19 [12.5-33.5]v. 18 [11-35] days, p = 0.63), and hospital mortality were similar (19.8% v. 22.6%, p = 0.56). In multiple logistic regression analyses, higher APACHE II score (1.06; 1.04-1.09, p<0.001) was independently associated with an increased risk of death; antiviral treatment with a lower risk of death (0.34; 0.15 - 0.78, p = 0.01). Ethnicity was not associated with mortality.INTERPRETATION: During the 2009-2010 Influenza A (H1N1) pandemic, Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Canadians with H1N1-related critical illness had a similar risk of death, after adjusting for potential confounding factors. labels: #Adult#Canada#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Influenza A Virus, H1N1 Subtype#Influenza, Human#Male#Middle Aged#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)'
b'Genetic mutations disrupting the structure and function of primary cilia cause various inherited retinal diseases in humans. Bardet-Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a genetically heterogeneous, pleiotropic ciliopathy characterized by retinal degeneration, obesity, postaxial polydactyly, intellectual disability, and genital and renal abnormalities. To gain insight into the mechanisms of retinal degeneration in BBS, we developed a congenital knockout mouse of Bbs8, as well as conditional mouse models in which function of the BBSome (a protein complex that mediates ciliary trafficking) can be temporally inactivated or restored. We demonstrate that BBS mutant mice have defects in retinal outer segment morphogenesis. We further demonstrate that removal of Bbs8 in adult mice affects photoreceptor function and disrupts the structural integrity of the outer segment. Notably, using a mouse model in which a gene trap inhibiting Bbs8 gene expression can be removed by an inducible FLP recombinase, we show that when BBS8 is restored in immature retinas with malformed outer segments, outer segment extension can resume normally and malformed outer segment discs are displaced distally by normal outer segment structures. Over time, the retinas of the rescued mice become morphologically and functionally normal, indicating that there is a window of plasticity when initial retinal outer segment morphogenesis defects can be ameliorated. labels: #Animals#Bardet-Biedl Syndrome#Cilia#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Models, Animal#Morphogenesis#Mutation#Photoreceptor Cells#Protein Transport#Retina'
b'Influenza pandemics can emerge unexpectedly and wreak global devastation. However, each of the six pandemics since 1889 emerged in the Northern Hemisphere just after the flu season, suggesting that pandemic timing may be predictable. Using a stochastic model fit to seasonal flu surveillance data from the United States, we find that seasonal flu leaves a transient wake of heterosubtypic immunity that impedes the emergence of novel flu viruses. This refractory period provides a simple explanation for not only the spring-summer timing of historical pandemics, but also early increases in pandemic severity and multiple waves of transmission. Thus, pandemic risk may be seasonal and predictable, with the accuracy of pre-pandemic and real-time risk assessments hinging on reliable seasonal influenza surveillance and precise estimates of the breadth and duration of heterosubtypic immunity. labels: #Computational Biology#Humans#Influenza, Human#Models, Biological#Pandemics#Risk#Seasons'
b'During vertebrate neurulation, the embryonic ectoderm is patterned into lineage progenitors for neural plate, neural crest, placodes and epidermis. Here, we use Xenopus laevis embryos to analyze the spatial and temporal transcriptome of distinct ectodermal domains in the course of neurulation, during the establishment of cell lineages. In order to define the transcriptome of small groups of cells from a single germ layer and to retain spatial information, dorsal and ventral ectoderm was subdivided along the anterior-posterior and medial-lateral axes by microdissections. Principal component analysis on the transcriptomes of these ectoderm fragments primarily identifies embryonic axes and temporal dynamics. This provides a genetic code to define positional information of any ectoderm sample along the anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes directly from its transcriptome. In parallel, we use nonnegative matrix factorization to predict enhanced gene expression maps onto early and mid-neurula embryos, and specific signatures for each ectoderm area. The clustering of spatial and temporal datasets allowed detection of multiple biologically relevant groups (e.g., Wnt signaling, neural crest development, sensory placode specification, ciliogenesis, germ layer specification). We provide an interactive network interface, EctoMap, for exploring synexpression relationships among genes expressed in the neurula, and suggest several strategies to use this comprehensive dataset to address questions in developmental biology as well as stem cell or cancer research. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Cluster Analysis#Databases, Genetic#Ectoderm#Gastrulation#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Gene Ontology#Gene Regulatory Networks#Humans#Internet#Microdissection#Neoplasms#Neural Crest#Neurons#Neurulation#Principal Component Analysis#Stem Cells#Time Factors#Transcriptome#Wnt Proteins#Xenopus laevis'
b"Musculoskeletal allografts are now commonly used. To decrease the potential risks of transmission of pathogenic bacteria, fungi, or viruses to the transplant recipients, certain issues regarding the management of patients who receive contaminated allografts need to be addressed. We aimed to clarify the incidence and extent of disease transmission from allografts by analyzing the allografting procedures performed in the bone bank of our hospital over the past 20 years. We retrospectively reviewed the data from our allograft registry center on 3979 allografts that were implanted in 3193 recipients throughout a period of two decades, from July 1991 to June 2011. The source of the allografts, results of all screening tests, dates of harvesting and implantation, and recipients of all allografts were checked. With the help of the Center for Infection Control of our hospital, a strict prospective, hospital-wide, on-site surveillance was conducted, and every patient with healthcare-associated infection was identified. Fisher's exact test was used to compare the infection rate between recipients with sterile allografts and those with contaminated allografts. The overall discard and infection rates were, respectively, 23% and 1.3% in the first decade (1991-2001); and 18.4% and 1.25% in the second decade (2001-2011). The infection rate of contaminated allograft recipients was significantly higher than that of sterile allograft recipients (10% vs. 1.15%, P<0.01) in the second decade. Both infection and discard rates of our bone bank are comparable with those of international bone banks. Strict allograft processing and adequate prophylactic use of antibiotics are critical to prevent infection and disease transmission in such cases. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Allografts#Bone Banks#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality Control#Retrospective Studies#Taiwan#Young Adult"
b'Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a hematological disorder leading to blood vessel occlusion accompanied by painful episodes and even death. Red blood cells (RBCs) of SCD patients have diverse shapes that reveal important biomechanical and bio-rheological characteristics, e.g. their density, fragility, adhesive properties, etc. Hence, having an objective and effective way of RBC shape quantification and classification will lead to better insights and eventual better prognosis of the disease. To this end, we have developed an automated, high-throughput, ex-vivo RBC shape classification framework that consists of three stages. First, we present an automatic hierarchical RBC extraction method to detect the RBC region (ROI) from the background, and then separate touching RBCs in the ROI images by applying an improved random walk method based on automatic seed generation. Second, we apply a mask-based RBC patch-size normalization method to normalize the variant size of segmented single RBC patches into uniform size. Third, we employ deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to realize RBC classification; the alternating convolution and pooling operations can deal with non-linear and complex patterns. Furthermore, we investigate the specific shape factor quantification for the classified RBC image data in order to develop a general multiscale shape analysis. We perform several experiments on raw microscopy image datasets from 8 SCD patients (over 7,000 single RBC images) through a 5-fold cross validation method both for oxygenated and deoxygenated RBCs. We demonstrate that the proposed framework can successfully classify sickle shape RBCs in an automated manner with high accuracy, and we also provide the corresponding shape factor analysis, which can be used synergistically with the CNN analysis for more robust predictions. Moreover, the trained deep CNN exhibits good performance even for a deoxygenated dataset and distinguishes the subtle differences in texture alteration inside the oxygenated and deoxygenated RBCs. labels: #Anemia, Sickle Cell#Computational Biology#Erythrocytes#Humans#Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Microscopy#Neural Networks (Computer)#Pattern Recognition, Automated'
b'Consistent across time and cultures, men and male adolescents older than 14 years of age appear underrepresented in mood disorders, and are far less likely than women to seek psychological help. The much higher rate of suicide amongst males suggests that depression in men might be underreported. One of the core human motives is to seek acceptance by others and avoid rejection. Rejection Sensitivity (RS) has been conceptualized as the cognitive-affective processing disposition to anxiously expect, readily perceive, and intensely respond to cues of rejection in the behavior of others. RS has been previously linked with the onset and course of depression, but-as yet-has not been investigated longitudinally in a clinical population. We investigated the predictive role of RS to symptom deterioration 6 months after end-of- treatment in 72 male inpatients with depressive spectrum disorder. The BDI was administered at intake, end-of-treatment and 6 month follow-up. RS scores were obtained at intake. Rejection Sensitivity had additional predictive power on BDI scores at 6 months follow-up controlling for BDI scores at end-of-treatment (\xce\x94R2 = .095). The results are discussed in terms of the importance of targeting RS during treatment, and highlight the fact that therapeutic follow-up care is paramount. Future research should investigate possible mediators of the RS-relapse-to-depression association, such as self-blame, rumination, neuroticism, pessimism, emotion dysregulation, and low self-esteem. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Depression#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Rejection (Psychology)#Young Adult'
b'PURPOSE: To use structural equation modelling (SEM) to determine (1) the direct and indirect associations of strength of paretic lower limb muscles with the level of community integration, and (2) the direct association of walking endurance and balance performance with the level of community integration in community-dwelling stroke survivors.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this cross-sectional study of 105 stroke survivors, the Subjective Index of Physical and Social Outcome (SIPSO) was used to measure the level of community integration. Lower-limb strength measures included isometric paretic ankle strength and isokinetic paretic knee peak torque. The Berg Balance Scale (BBS) and the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) were used to evaluate balance performance and walking endurance, respectively.RESULTS: SEM revealed that the distance walked on the 6MWT had the strongest direct association with the SIPSO score (\xce\xb2 = 0.41, p<0.001). An increase of one standard deviation in the 6MWT distance resulted in an increase of 0.41 standard deviations in the SIPSO score. Moreover, dorsiflexion strength (\xce\xb2 = 0.18, p = 0.044) and the BBS score (\xce\xb2 = 0.21, p = 0.021) had direct associations with the SIPSO score.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the proposed model suggest that rehabilitation training of community-dwelling stroke survivors could focus on walking endurance, balance performance and dorsiflexor muscle strengthening if the aim is to augment the level of community integration. labels: #Aged#Disability Evaluation#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Statistical#Muscle Strength#Postural Balance#Stroke#Stroke Rehabilitation#Survivors'
b'AIMS: Veno-arterial extracorporeal life support (ECLS) is an established method to stabilize acute circulatory failure. Parameters and data on when to ideally wean circulatory support are limited. Bilirubin is a marker of end-organ damage. Therefore, the purpose of this large study was to evaluate the impact of dynamic changes of elevated bilirubin levels on survival in patients on ECLS.METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed 502 consecutive cases of ECLS from 2007 to 2015. Bilirubin levels were recorded before implantation and until six days after explantation. Dynamic bilirubin changes, and hemodynamic and laboratory outcome parameters were compared in survivors and nonsurvivors. Reason for ECLS implantation was cardiac arrest with ongoing resuscitation in 230 (45.8%), low cardiac output in 174 (34.7%) and inability to wean off cardiopulmonary bypass in 98 (19.5%) patients. 307 (61.2%) patients were weaned off ECLS, however, 206 (41.0%) survived. Mean duration of ECLS was 3 (2-6) days, and survivors received significantly longer ECLS (5 vs 3 days, p<0.001). Survivors had significantly lower baseline bilirubin levels (p = 0.003). Bilirubin started to rise from day 2 in all patients. In survivors, bilirubin levels had trended down on the day of ECLS explantation and stayed at an acceptable level. However, in weaned patients who did not survive and patients who died on ECLS bilirubin levels continued to rise during the recorded period.CONCLUSION: ECLS support improves survival in patients with acute circulatory failure. Down trending bilirubin levels on veno-arterial ECLS indicate improved chances of successful weaning and survival in hemodynamically stable patients. labels: #Aged#Bilirubin#Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Shock#Survival Analysis'
b'The PubMed database offers an extensive set of publication data that can be useful, yet inherently complex to use without automated computational techniques. Data repositories such as the Genomic Data Commons (GDC) and the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) offer experimental data storage and retrieval as well as curated gene expression profiles. Genetic interaction databases, including Reactome and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, offer pathway and experiment data analysis using data curated from these publications and data repositories. We have created a method to generate and analyze consensus networks, inferring potential gene interactions, using large numbers of Bayesian networks generated by data mining publications in the PubMed database. Through the concept of network resolution, these consensus networks can be tailored to represent possible genetic interactions. We designed a set of experiments to confirm that our method is stable across variation in both sample and topological input sizes. Using gene product interactions from the KEGG pathway database and data mining PubMed publication abstracts, we verify that regardless of the network resolution or the inferred consensus network, our method is capable of inferring meaningful gene interactions through consensus Bayesian network generation with multiple, randomized topological orderings. Our method can not only confirm the existence of currently accepted interactions, but has the potential to hypothesize new ones as well. We show our method confirms the existence of known gene interactions such as JAK-STAT-PI3K-AKT-mTOR, infers novel gene interactions such as RAS- Bcl-2 and RAS-AKT, and found significant pathway-pathway interactions between the JAK-STAT signaling and Cardiac Muscle Contraction KEGG pathways. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Datasets as Topic#Protein Interaction Mapping#PubMed'
b'Paulownia tomentosa is a fast-growing tree species with multiple uses. It is grown worldwide, but is native to China, where it is widely cultivated in saline regions. We previously confirmed that autotetraploid P. tomentosa plants are more stress-tolerant than the diploid plants. However, the molecular mechanism underlying P. tomentosa salinity tolerance has not been fully characterized. Using the complete Paulownia fortunei genome as a reference, we applied next-generation RNA-sequencing technology to analyze the effects of salt stress on diploid and autotetraploid P. tomentosa plants. We generated 175 million clean reads and identified 15,873 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from four P. tomentosa libraries (two diploid and two autotetraploid). Functional annotations of the differentially expressed genes using the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes databases revealed that plant hormone signal transduction and photosynthetic activities are vital for plant responses to high-salt conditions. We also identified several transcription factors, including members of the AP2/EREBP, bHLH, MYB, and NAC families. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis validated the expression patterns of eight differentially expressed genes. Our findings and the generated transcriptome data may help to accelerate the genetic improvement of cultivated P. tomentosa and other plant species for enhanced growth in saline soils. labels: #Alternative Splicing#Gene Expression Profiling#Genes, Plant#Lamiales#Photosynthesis#Plant Growth Regulators#Ploidies#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Salt-Tolerance#Signal Transduction#Transcription Factors'
b"Ecological niche modeling (ENM) is a broadly used tool in different fields of plant ecology. Despite the importance of edaphic conditions in determining the niche of terrestrial plant species, edaphic data have rarely been included in ENMs of plant species perhaps because such data are not available for many regions. Recently, edaphic data has been made available at a global scale allowing its potential inclusion and evaluation on ENM performance for plant species. Here, we take advantage of such data and address the following main questions: What is the influence of distinct predictor variables (e.g. climatic vs edaphic) on different ENM algorithms? and what is the relationship between the performance of different predictors and geographic characteristics of species? We used 125 plant species distributed over the Neotropical region to explore the effect on ENMs of using edaphic data available from the SoilGrids database and its combination with climatic data from the CHELSA database. In addition, we related these different predictor variables to geographic characteristics of the target species and different ENM algorithms. The use of different predictors (climatic, edaphic, and both) significantly affected model performance and spatial complexity of the predictions. We showed that the use of global edaphic plus climatic variables generates ENMs with similar or better accuracy compared to those constructed only with climate variables. Moreover, the performance of models considering these different predictors, separately or jointly, was related to geographic properties of species records, such as number and distribution range. The large geographic extent, the variability of environments and the different species' geographical characteristics considered here allowed us to demonstrate that global edaphic data adds useful information for plant ENMs. This is particularly valuable for studies of species that are distributed in regions where more detailed information on soil properties is poor or does not even exist. labels: #Climate#Ecosystem#Models, Biological#Plants#Species Specificity"
b'The interplay between hemodynamic-based markers of cortical activity (e.g. fMRI and optical intrinsic signal imaging), which are an indirect and relatively slow report of neural activity, and underlying synaptic electrical and metabolic activity through neurovascular coupling is a topic of ongoing research and debate. As application of resting state functional connectivity measures is extended further into topics such as brain development, aging and disease, the importance of understanding the fundamental physiological basis for functional connectivity will grow. Here we extend functional connectivity analysis from hemodynamic- to calcium-based imaging. Transgenic mice (n = 7) expressing a fluorescent calcium indicator (GCaMP6) driven by the Thy1 promoter in glutamatergic neurons were imaged transcranially in both anesthetized (using ketamine/xylazine) and awake states. Sequential LED illumination (\xce\xbb = 454, 523, 595, 640nm) enabled concurrent imaging of both GCaMP6 fluorescence emission (corrected for hemoglobin absorption) and hemodynamics. Functional connectivity network maps were constructed for infraslow (0.009-0.08Hz), intermediate (0.08-0.4Hz), and high (0.4-4.0Hz) frequency bands. At infraslow and intermediate frequencies, commonly used in BOLD fMRI and fcOIS studies of functional connectivity and implicated in neurovascular coupling mechanisms, GCaMP6 and HbO2 functional connectivity structures were in high agreement, both qualitatively and also quantitatively through a measure of spatial similarity. The spontaneous dynamics of both contrasts had the highest correlation when the GCaMP6 signal was delayed with a ~0.6-1.5s temporal offset. Within the higher-frequency delta band, sensitive to slow wave sleep oscillations in non-REM sleep and anesthesia, we evaluate the speed with which the connectivity analysis stabilized and found that the functional connectivity maps captured putative network structure within time window lengths as short as 30 seconds. Homotopic GCaMP6 functional connectivity maps at 0.4-4.0Hz in the anesthetized states show a striking correlated and anti-correlated structure along the anterior to posterior axis. This structure is potentially explained in part by observed propagation of delta-band activity from frontal somatomotor regions to visuoparietal areas. During awake imaging, this spatio-temporal quality is altered, and a more complex and detailed functional connectivity structure is observed. The combined calcium/hemoglobin imaging technique described here will enable the dissociation of changes in ionic and hemodynamic functional structure and neurovascular coupling and provide a framework for subsequent studies of neurological disease such as stroke. labels: #Anesthesia#Animals#Brain Mapping#Calcium#Electroencephalography#Fluorescence#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Wakefulness'
b'We performed dye-enhanced imaging of mouse brain microvessels using spectral focusing coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering (SF-CARS) microscopy. The resonant signals from C-H stretching in forward CARS usually show high background intensity in tissues, which makes CARS imaging of microvessels difficult. In this study, epi-detection of back-scattered SF-CARS signals showed a negligible background, but the overall intensity of resonant CARS signals was too low to observe the network of brain microvessels. Therefore, Evans blue (EB) dye was used as contrasting agent to enhance the back-scattered SF-CARS signals. Breakdown of brain microvessels by inducing hemorrhage in a mouse was clearly visualized using backward SF-CARS signals, following intravenous injection of EB. The improved visualization of brain microvessels with EB enhanced the sensitivity of SF-CARS, detecting not only the blood vessels themselves but their integrity as well in the brain vasculature. labels: #Animals#Brain#Evans Blue#Intracranial Hemorrhages#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Microscopy#Microvessels#Spectrum Analysis, Raman'
b'X-ray microbeam radiotherapy can potentially widen the therapeutic window due to a geometrical redistribution of the dose. However, high requirements on photon flux, beam collimation, and system stability restrict its application mainly to large-scale, cost-intensive synchrotron facilities. With a unique laser-based Compact Light Source using inverse Compton scattering, we investigated the translation of this promising radiotherapy technique to a machine of future clinical relevance. We performed in vitro colony-forming assays and chromosome aberration tests in normal tissue cells after microbeam irradiation compared to homogeneous irradiation at the same mean dose using 25 keV X-rays. The microplanar pattern was achieved with a tungsten slit array of 50 \xce\xbcm slit size and a spacing of 350 \xce\xbcm. Applying microbeams significantly increased cell survival for a mean dose above 2 Gy, which indicates fewer normal tissue complications. The observation of significantly less chromosome aberrations suggests a lower risk of second cancer development. Our findings provide valuable insight into the mechanisms of microbeam radiotherapy and prove its applicability at a compact synchrotron, which contributes to its future clinical translation. labels: #Animals#CHO Cells#Cell Survival#Chromosome Aberrations#Cricetulus#HeLa Cells#Humans#Synchrotrons#X-Rays'
b'DNA barcoding is a fast and reliable tool to assess and monitor biodiversity and, via community phylogenetics, to investigate ecological and evolutionary processes that may be responsible for the community structure of forests. In this study, DNA barcodes for the two widely used plastid coding regions rbcL and matK are used to contribute to identification of morphologically undetermined individuals, as well as to investigate phylogenetic structure of tree communities in 70 subplots (10 \xc3\x97 10m) of a 25-ha forest-dynamics plot in Brunei (Borneo, Southeast Asia). The combined matrix (rbcL + matK) comprised 555 haplotypes (from \xe2\x89\xa5154 genera, 68 families and 25 orders sensu APG, Angiosperm Phylogeny Group, 2016), making a substantial contribution to tree barcode sequences from Southeast Asia. Barcode sequences were used to reconstruct phylogenetic relationships using maximum likelihood, both with and without constraining the topology of taxonomic orders to match that proposed by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group. A third phylogenetic tree was reconstructed using the program Phylomatic to investigate the influence of phylogenetic resolution on results. Detection of non-random patterns of community assembly was determined by net relatedness index (NRI) and nearest taxon index (NTI). In most cases, community assembly was either random or phylogenetically clustered, which likely indicates the importance to community structure of habitat filtering based on phylogenetically correlated traits in determining community structure. Different phylogenetic trees gave similar overall results, but the Phylomatic tree produced greater variation across plots for NRI and NTI values, presumably due to noise introduced by using an unresolved phylogenetic tree. Our results suggest that using a DNA barcode tree has benefits over the traditionally used Phylomatic approach by increasing precision and accuracy and allowing the incorporation of taxonomically unidentified individuals into analyses. labels: #Borneo#DNA Barcoding, Taxonomic#DNA, Plant#Databases, Genetic#Forests#Likelihood Functions#Phylogeny#Plants'
b'This article presents a novel connectivity analysis method that is suitable for multi-node networks such as EEG, MEG or EcOG electrode recordings. Its diagnostic power and ability to interpret brain states in schizophrenia is demonstrated on a set of 50 subjects that constituted of 25 healthy and 25 diagnosed with schizophrenia and treated with medication. The method can also be used for the automatic detection of schizophrenia; it exhibits higher sensitivity than state-of-the-art methods with no false positives. The detection is based on an analysis from a minute long pattern-recognition computer task. Moreover, this connectivity analysis leads naturally to an optimal choice of electrodes and hence to highly statistically significant results that are based on data from only 3-5 electrodes. The method is general and can be used for the diagnosis of other psychiatric conditions, provided an appropriate computer task is devised. labels: #Brain Mapping#Electroencephalography#Humans#Schizophrenia'
b'Fundamental understanding and characterization of neural response to substrate topography is essential in the development of next generation biomaterials for nerve repair. Aerogels are a new class of materials with great potential as a biomaterial. In this work, we examine the extension of neurites by PC12 cells plated on matrigel-coated and collagen-coated mesoporous aerogel surfaces. We have successfully established the methodology for adhesion and growth of PC12 cells on polyurea crosslinked silica aerogels. Additionally, we have quantified neurite behaviors and compared their response on aerogel substrates with their behavior on tissue culture (TC) plastic, and polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). We found that, on average, PC12 cells extend longer neurites on crosslinked silica aerogels than on tissue culture plastic, and, that the average number of neurites per cluster is lower on aerogels than on tissue culture plastic. Aerogels are an attractive candidate for future development of smart neural implants and the work presented here creates a platform for future work with this class of materials as a substrate for bioelectronic interfacing. labels: #Animals#Dimethylpolysiloxanes#Gels#Humans#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Neurites#PC12 Cells#Plastics#Rats#Silicon Dioxide#Surface Properties'
b'BACKGROUND: Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) prevalence is increasing and becoming a major public health concern. Whether a Mediterranean diet can help prevent GDM in unselected pregnant women has yet to be studied.METHODS: We conducted a prospective, randomized controlled trial to evaluate the incidence of GDM with two different dietary models. All consecutive normoglycemic (<92 mg/dL) pregnant women at 8-12 gestational weeks (GW) were assigned to Intervention Group (IG, n = 500): MedDiet supplemented with extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) and pistachios; or Control Group (CG, n = 500): standard diet with limited fat intake. Primary outcome was to assess the effect of the intervention on GDM incidence at 24-28 GW. Gestational weight gain (GWG), pregnancy-induced hypertension, caesarean section (CS), preterm delivery, perineal trauma, small and large for gestational age (SGA and LGA) and admissions to neonatal intensive care unit were also assessed. Analysis was by intention-to-treat.RESULTS: A total of 874 women completed the study (440/434, CG/IG). According to nutritional questionnaires and biomarker analysis, women in the IG had a good adherence to the intervention. 177/874 women were diagnosed with GDM, 103/440 (23.4%) in CG and 74/434(17.1%) in IG, p = 0.012. The crude relative risk (RR) for GDM was 0.73 (95% CI: 0.56-0.95; p = 0.020) IG vs CG and persisted after adjusted multivariable analysis, 0.75(95% CI: 0.57-0.98; p = 0.039). IG had also significantly reduced rates of insulin-treated GDM, prematurity, GWG at 24-28 and 36-38 GW, emergency CS, perineal trauma, and SGA and LGA newborns (all p<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: An early nutritional intervention with a supplemented MedDiet reduces the incidence of GDM and improves several maternal and neonatal outcomes. labels: #Adult#Diabetes, Gestational#Diet, Mediterranean#Female#Humans#Incidence#Infant, Newborn#Life Style#Olive Oil#Pistacia#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Prospective Studies'
b'Pathogen spread between farms results from interaction between the epidemiological characteristics of infectious agents, such as transmission route, and the contact structure between holdings. The objective of our study was to design network models of pig movements matching with epidemiological features of pathogens. Our first model represents the transmission of infectious diseases between farms only through the introduction of animals to holdings (Animal Introduction Model AIM), whereas the second one also accounts for pathogen spread through intermediate transit of trucks through farms even without any animal unloading (i.e. indirect transmission-Transit Model TM). To take the pyramidal organisation of pig production into consideration, these networks were studied at three different scales: the whole network and two subnetworks containing only breeding or production farms. The two models were applied to pig movement data recorded in France from June 2012 to December 2014. For each type of model, we calculated network descriptive statistics, looked for weakly/strongly connected components (WCCs/SCCs) and communities, and analysed temporal patterns. Whatever the model, the network exhibited scale-free and small-world topologies. Differences in centrality values between the two models showed that nucleus, multiplication and post-weaning farms played a key role in the spread of diseases transmitted exclusively by the introduction of infected animals, whereas farrowing and farrow-to-finish herds appeared more vulnerable to the introduction of infectious diseases through indirect contacts. The second network was less fragmented than the first one, a giant SCC being detected. The topology of network communities also varied with modelling assumptions: in the first approach, a huge geographically dispersed community was found, whereas the second model highlighted several small geographically clustered communities. These results underline the relevance of developing network models corresponding to pathogen features (e.g. their transmission route), and the need to target specific types of holdings/areas for surveillance depending on the epidemiological context. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#France#Swine#Swine Diseases#Transportation'
b"Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) envelope gp120 is partly an intrinsically disordered (unstructured/disordered) protein as it contains regions that do not fold into well-defined protein structures. These disordered regions play important roles in HIV's life cycle, particularly, V3 loop-dependent cell entry, which determines how the virus uses two coreceptors on immune cells, the chemokine receptors CCR5 (R5), CXCR4 (X4) or both (R5X4 virus). Most infecting HIV-1 variants utilise CCR5, while a switch to CXCR4-use occurs in the majority of infections. Why does this 'rewiring' event occur in HIV-1 infected patients? As changes in the charge of the V3 loop are associated with this receptor switch and it has been suggested that charged residues promote structure disorder, we hypothesise that the intrinsic disorder of the V3 loop is permissive to sequence variation thus contributing to the switch in cell tropism. To test this we use three independent data sets of gp120 to analyse V3 loop disorder. We find that the V3 loop of X4 virus has significantly higher intrinsic disorder tendency than R5 and R5X4 virus, while R5X4 virus has the lowest. These results indicate that structural disorder plays an important role in HIV-1 cell tropism and CXCR4 binding. We discuss the potential evolutionary mechanisms leading to the fixation of disorder promoting mutations and the adaptive potential of protein structural disorder in viral host adaptation. labels: #HIV Envelope Protein gp120#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Protein Conformation#Viral Proteins"
b'Reducing duplicated data of database backups is an important application scenario for data deduplication technology. NewSQL is an emerging database system and is now being used more and more widely. NewSQL systems need to improve data reliability by periodically backing up in-memory data, resulting in a lot of duplicated data. The traditional deduplication method is not optimized for the NewSQL server system and cannot take full advantage of hardware resources to optimize deduplication performance. A recent research pointed out that the future NewSQL server will have thousands of CPU cores, large DRAM and huge NVRAM. Therefore, how to utilize these hardware resources to optimize the performance of data deduplication is an important issue. To solve this problem, we propose a deduplication optimization method (DOMe) for NewSQL system backup. To take advantage of the large number of CPU cores in the NewSQL server to optimize deduplication performance, DOMe parallelizes the deduplication method based on the fork-join framework. The fingerprint index, which is the key data structure in the deduplication process, is implemented as pure in-memory hash table, which makes full use of the large DRAM in NewSQL system, eliminating the performance bottleneck problem of fingerprint index existing in traditional deduplication method. The H-store is used as a typical NewSQL database system to implement DOMe method. DOMe is experimentally analyzed by two representative backup data. The experimental results show that: 1) DOMe can reduce the duplicated NewSQL backup data. 2) DOMe significantly improves deduplication performance by parallelizing CDC algorithms. In the case of the theoretical speedup ratio of the server is 20.8, the speedup ratio of DOMe can achieve up to 18; 3) DOMe improved the deduplication throughput by 1.5 times through the pure in-memory index optimization method. labels: #Databases, Factual#Programming Languages'
b'BACKGROUND: Vascular calcification is associated with structural and functional abnormality of the heart and blood vessels. We investigated the relationship between intradialytic hypotension (IDH) and vascular calcification in hemodialysis (HD) patients, and their impacts on cardiovascular events (CVEs).METHOD: We enrolled 191 maintenance HD patients who underwent plain abdomen radiography for abdominal aortic calcification score (AACS). A nadir systolic blood pressure (BP)<90 mm Hg or the requirement of bolus fluid administration was required to quantify the hypotension diagnosis. IDH was defined as>2 hypotension episodes during 10 HD treatments.RESULTS: Among the 191 patients, IDH occurred in 32. AACS was higher in the IDH group compared with the no-IDH group (8.4 \xc2\xb1 6.0 vs. 4.9 \xc2\xb1 5.2, respectively; P = 0.001). High AACS was an independent risk factor after adjustment for age, diabetes mellitus, ultrafiltration, diastolic BP, and calcium level (odds ratio (OR) = 1.09, 95% CI = 1.01-1.18; P = 0.03). Patients with both IDH and AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 had the highest cumulative CVE rate (27.9%, P = 0.008) compared with 11.2%, 12.5%, and 6% for those with AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 only, with IDH only, and neither, respectively. In multivariate analysis, the presence of both IDH and AACS \xe2\x89\xa7 4 was a significant predictor of CVE (hazard ratio (HR) = 2.84, 95% CI = 1.04-7.74, P = 0.04).CONCLUSION: IDH is associated with abdominal aortic calcification and is an independent risk factor for IDH. Both IDH and high AACS were significant predictors of CVE. labels: #Aged#Aorta#Female#Humans#Hypotension#Male#Middle Aged#Renal Dialysis#Vascular Calcification'
b'Prevalence of metabolic syndrome (MetS) in children is increasing and identifying the risk factors for MetS during childhood is an important first step to prevent chronic diseases later in life. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the prevalence of MetS and cardiometabolic risk factor (CMRF) clustering among Korean children and adolescents and to validate the associated anthropometric and laboratory surrogate markers. We used data from the 2011-2014 Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. In total, data for 2,935 subjects (1539 boys, 52.6%) aged 10-19 years were assessed. MetS was defined by central obesity plus any two or more of CMRFs such as abdominal obesity, hypertension, hyperglycemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and decreased high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) using the International Diabetes Federation criteria for children and adolescents. The presence of two or more CMRFs was classified as CMRF clustering. The prevalence of MetS and CMRF clustering in this group was found to be 1.8% and 8.9%, respectively. The receiver operating characteristic analysis of MetS and CMRF clustering, and the area under the curve (95% confidence interval) of surrogate markers revealed that the waist circumference to height ratio [0.960 (95% CI 0.959-0.960), cut-off 0.491]showed the highest predictability for MetS whereas triglyceride to HDL-C ratio [0.891 (95% CI 0.891-0.892), cut-off 2.63] showed the highest predictability for CMRF clustering. Long-term follow-up is needed for further validation. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Biomarkers#Child#Cluster Analysis#Female#Humans#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Nutrition Surveys#Republic of Korea#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: The influenza B viruses belong to two lineages distinguished by their genetic and antigenic characteristics, which are referred to as the Yamagata and Victoria lineages, designated after their original isolates, B/Yamagata/16/88 and B/Victoria/2/87. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate the molecular characteristics of influenza B viruses circulating in a region of Northern Italy, Lombardia, during the influenza season of 2015-2016.METHODS: Influenza B virus was detected using a respiratory virus panel of assays and an influenza B-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction. The complete influenza B hemagglutinin (HA) gene was amplified and sequenced directly from clinical specimens. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using nucleotide sequences.RESULTS: A total of 71 hospitalized pediatric patients were influenza B positive. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the great majority of influenza B strains (66/71, 93.0%) belonged to the Victoria-lineage and were antigenically like vaccine strain (B/Brisbane/60/2008) included only in the quadrivalent vaccine. In the detected influenza B strains, a series of amino acid changes were observed in the antigenic regions: I117V, V124A, N129D, V146I, N197D, T199A, and A202T. However, only 2 amino acid changes were observed in the HA regions involved in receptor binding or in antibody recognition.CONCLUSIONS: All the influenza B strains identified in this study belonged to the influenza B Victoria lineage not included in the trivalent vaccine commonly used by the general population during the 2015-2016 influenza season in Italy. This indicates that protection against influenza B infection in the vaccinated population was in general very poor during the 2015-2016 influenza season. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Child#Disease Outbreaks#Humans#Influenza B virus#Influenza, Human#Italy#Phylogeny#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Viral Proteins'
b'Ototoxicity is a significant side effect of a number of drugs, including the aminoglycoside antibiotics and platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents that are used to treat life-threatening illnesses. Although much progress has been made, the mechanisms that lead to ototoxic loss of inner ear sensory hair cells (HCs) remains incompletely understood. Given the critical role of protein phosphorylation in intracellular processes, including both damage and survival signaling, we screened a library of kinase inhibitors targeting members of all the major families in the kinome. Micro-explants from the organ of Corti of mice in which only the sensory cells express GFP were exposed to 200 \xce\xbcM of the ototoxic aminoglycoside gentamicin with or without three dosages of each kinase inhibitor. The loss of sensory cells was compared to that seen with gentamicin alone, or without treatment. Of the 160 inhibitors, 15 exhibited a statistically significant protective effect, while 3 significantly enhanced HC loss. The results confirm some previous studies of kinase involvement in HC damage and survival, and also highlight several novel potential kinase pathway contributions to ototoxicity. labels: #Aminoglycosides#Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Antineoplastic Agents#Enzyme Inhibitors#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Organ of Corti#Phosphotransferases'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent studies on the variants in duplicated human alpha globin genes (HBA2 and HBA1) actively target the \xce\xb1-globin gene as molecular modulators for the treatment of \xce\xb2-thalassemia major. Identification of the exact position of variant in HBA1, HBA2 or its patchworks is mandatory to support the therapeutic aims in \xce\xb2-thalassemia major, by identifying specific modulators for the reactivation of fetal hemoglobin production. Hence, accurate identification of the variants in \xce\xb1-globin genes is crucial for the proper diagnosis, treatment and genetic counseling.METHOD: The objective was to reveal the annotation errors produced in \xce\xb1-globin gene sequence analysis while using different analytic tools. An HBA2 gene sequence with the HBA2:c.95+2_95+6delTGAGG variant and a recently reported HBA12 gene convert have been taken as examples to prove annotation error in \xce\xb1-globin gene from different analytic tools.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Although various bioinformatics tools used to predict variants are usually of high reliability, the current study using the an alpha globin 2 sequence with the HBA2:c.95+2_95+6delTGAGG variant and a recently reported HBA12 gene convert, has showcased ambiguous outputs among the three bioinformatics tools used and against the manual analytical method adopted.CONCLUSIONS: This report emphasizes the necessity for caution in the usage of DNA sequence analysis tools during molecular diagnosis and the importance of the selection of more appropriate tools for analysis. Furthermore, ethnic specific sequences should be considered as reference sequence for the analysis to bypass sequence dissimilarities among diverse populations. labels: #Humans#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#alpha-Globins#beta-Thalassemia'
b'OBJECTIVE: To explore the association of working hours and occupational physical activity (OPA) with the occurrence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in a Chinese population.METHODS: A total of 595 participants (354 and 241 patients with and without CHD, respectively) aged between 24 and 65 were enrolled in our study, which was conducted at the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University between December 2015 and October 2016. Participant characteristics were collected from face-to-face questionnaires, and logistic regression analysis was conducted to examine the association of working hours and OPA with the occurrence of CHD.RESULTS: Compared with non-employed people, long working hours (especially \xe2\x89\xa555 hours/week) contributed to the occurrence of CHD (adjusted odds ratio[OR] = 2.213, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.125, 4.355, P = 0.021) after multivariate adjustment in the Chinese population. With the extension of worktime, the CHD risk increased (P for the dose-response trend = 0.022). Meanwhile, even after adjusting for engagement in physical activity during leisure time, sedentary behavior at work had an adverse effect on CHD risk (adjusted OR = 2.794, 95%CI: 1.526, 5.115, P = 0.001), and a linear relationship was also found between OPA and CHD (P for the trend = 0.005).CONCLUSIONS: Long working hours and sedentary behavior at work are associated with a high risk of CHD. In addition, prolonged working hours in sedentary occupations increases the risk of CHD, independent of engagement in leisure time physical activity. labels: #Case-Control Studies#China#Coronary Disease#Employment#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupations'
b"BACKGROUND: The knowledge on health interests of a given population of Internet users might contribute to the increase of evidence on community's dental needs, and consequently, to the improvement of public health planning. The frequency of searches for specific issues on Google can be analyzed by the application of Google Trends.AIM: In this study, we aimed to characterize the interests on toothache information of Google users from the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Brazil.METHODS: The monthly variation of relative search volume (RSV) and the lists of main toothache-related queries were determined from January 2004 through April 2016 using Google Trends. Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) forecasting models were developed to determine predictive RSV values for toothache for additional 12 months. Autocorrelation plots and general additive model (GAM) were applied to determine trends and seasonality in RSV curves. Through linear regression models, we assessed the association between the variation of annual means of RSV values and national statistics for toothache in the U.S. and U.K. Subsequently, the distribution of main queries according to the identification of endodontic pain, type of searching information, and the interest in self-management of toothache was evaluated for the four countries.RESULTS: The autocorrelation plots showed patterns of non-stationary time series. The monthly variation influenced the data of the U.S. and U.K., with the higher RSV values found respectively in January/July and December. Also, the interest on toothache in the U.K. increases in the second semester and in the fourth quarter, especially in December. Additionally, an annual variation affected significantly all time series, with the increment of RSV means over the years, varying from 265% in the U.S. to 745% in Brazil. In parallel, the increments in RSV values were also observed in all predictive curves. The annual variation of observed and fitted RSV values was directly associated with the increase of toothache visits in the U.S. and urgent dental treatments in the U.K. Moreover, the queries typed on Google were markedly linked to searches on endodontic pain information, especially in Brazil, where the residents usually searched for relief and/or self-management of pain.CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, these findings indicate an increasing interest of Google users on toothache-related topics, regardless of country and season. The Internet activity can be used by policy makers as a complementary source of data for the development and implementation of strategies to control and prevent toothache complications. labels: #Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Internet#Search Engine#Toothache"
b'BACKGROUND: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) has high mortality rate but prognostic factors are not well established. The aim of our study was to evaluate the trend in in-hospital mortality over a period of 11 years and identify factors affecting the clinical outcomes of patients with IPA.METHOD: We conducted a nationwide inpatient population study using data from the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database. A total of 407 IPA patients from 2002 to 2012 were included in the study. Differences in demographics, comorbidities, and treatment were evaluated between in-hospital death group and survival group. Multivariate analysis was also performed to identify risk factors for mortality.RESULT: Male patients represented 63.14% of the patients (n = 257) and the mean age was 53.15 \xc2\xb1 20.93 years. Hematological cancer (n = 216, 53.07%) and diabetes mellitus (n = 75, 18.43%) were the most common underlying conditions. The overall case fatality rate was 30.22% with female slightly higher then male (32.67% versus 28.79%). The in-hospital case fatality rate increased since 2002 and peaked in 2006. It then declined over time with an in-hospital mortality of 25% in 2012. The in-hospital death group had a higher intubation rate (p<0.0001), a longer ICU stay (p = 0.0062), higher percentages of DM (p = 0.0412) and COPD (p = 0.0178), and a lower percentage of hematological cancer (p = 0.0079) as compared to survivor. The in-hospital death group was more likely to have steroid treatment (p<0.0001), develop acute renal failure (p<0.0001) and other infectious diseases (p = 0.0008) during hospitalization. Multivariate analysis identified female gender, older age (\xe2\x89\xa5 65 years old), intubation, bone marrow transplantation, acute renal failure, other infectious diseases and steroid use as predictive factors for mortality.CONCLUSION: The present study shows the trend in mortality among patients with IPA over an 11-year period. Female gender, older age, intubation, bone marrow transplantation, acute renal failure, other infectious diseases and steroid use were identified as risk factors for mortality. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Taiwan#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b'Genomic loci with regulatory potential can be annotated with various properties. For example, genomic sites bound by a given transcription factor (TF) can be divided according to whether they are proximal or distal to known promoters. Sites can be further labeled according to the cell types and conditions in which they are active. Given such a collection of labeled sites, it is natural to ask what sequence features are associated with each annotation label. However, discovering such label-specific sequence features is often confounded by overlaps between the labels; e.g. if regulatory sites specific to a given cell type are also more likely to be promoter-proximal, it is difficult to assess whether motifs identified in that set of sites are associated with the cell type or associated with promoters. In order to meet this challenge, we developed SeqUnwinder, a principled approach to deconvolving interpretable discriminative sequence features associated with overlapping annotation labels. We demonstrate the novel analysis abilities of SeqUnwinder using three examples. Firstly, SeqUnwinder is able to unravel sequence features associated with the dynamic binding behavior of TFs during motor neuron programming from features associated with chromatin state in the initial embryonic stem cells. Secondly, we characterize distinct sequence properties of multi-condition and cell-specific TF binding sites after controlling for uneven associations with promoter proximity. Finally, we demonstrate the scalability of SeqUnwinder to discover cell-specific sequence features from over one hundred thousand genomic loci that display DNase I hypersensitivity in one or more ENCODE cell lines. labels: #Binding Sites#Cell Line#Cell Lineage#Chromatin#Computational Biology#Deoxyribonuclease I#Embryonic Stem Cells#Gene Expression Regulation#Genetic Loci#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Regulatory Sequences, Nucleic Acid#Software#Transcription Factors'
b'The aim of the present study was to examine the role of PGC-1\xce\xb1 in intensity dependent exercise and exercise training-induced metabolic adaptations in mouse skeletal muscle. Whole body PGC-1\xce\xb1 knockout (KO) and littermate wildtype (WT) mice performed a single treadmill running bout at either low intensity (LI) for 40 min or moderate intensity (MI) for 20 min. Blood and quadriceps muscles were removed either immediately after exercise or at 3h or 6h into recovery from exercise and from resting controls. In addition PGC-1\xce\xb1 KO and littermate WT mice were exercise trained at either low intensity (LIT) for 40 min or at moderate intensity (MIT) for 20 min 2 times pr. day for 5 weeks. In the first and the last week of the intervention period, mice performed a graded running endurance test. Quadriceps muscles were removed before and after the training period for analyses. The acute exercise bout elicited intensity dependent increases in LC3I and LC3II protein and intensity independent decrease in p62 protein in skeletal muscle late in recovery and increased LC3II with exercise training independent of exercise intensity and volume in WT mice. Furthermore, acute exercise and exercise training did not increase LC3I and LC3II protein in PGC-1\xce\xb1 KO. In addition, exercise-induced mRNA responses of PGC-1\xce\xb1 isoforms were intensity dependent. In conclusion, these findings indicate that exercise intensity affected autophagy markers differently in skeletal muscle and suggest that PGC-1\xce\xb1 regulates both acute and exercise training-induced autophagy in skeletal muscle potentially in a PGC-1\xce\xb1 isoform specific manner. labels: #Animals#Epinephrine#Female#Glycogen#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#Muscle, Skeletal#Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma Coactivator 1-alpha#Phosphorylation#Physical Conditioning, Animal#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction'
b'BACKGROUND: Therapeutic interchange of a same class medication for an outpatient medication is a widespread practice during hospitalization in response to limited hospital formularies. However, therapeutic interchange may increase risk of medication errors. The objective was to characterize the prevalence and safety of therapeutic interchange.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Secondary analysis of a transitions of care study. We included patients over age 64 admitted to a tertiary care hospital between 2009-2010 with heart failure, pneumonia, or acute coronary syndrome who were taking a medication in any of six commonly-interchanged classes on admission: proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), histamine H2-receptor antagonists (H2 blockers), hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA reductase inhibitors (statins), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). There was limited electronic medication reconciliation support available. Main measures were presence and accuracy of therapeutic interchange during hospitalization, and rate of medication reconciliation errors on discharge. We examined charts of 303 patients taking 555 medications at time of admission in the six medication classes of interest. A total of 244 (44.0%) of medications were therapeutically interchanged to an approved formulary drug at admission, affecting 64% of the study patients. Among the therapeutically interchanged drugs, we identified 78 (32.0%) suspected medication conversion errors. The discharge medication reconciliation error rate was 11.5% among the 244 therapeutically interchanged medications, compared with 4.2% among the 311 unchanged medications (relative risk [RR] 2.75, 95% confidence interval [CI]1.45-5.19).CONCLUSIONS: Therapeutic interchange was prevalent among hospitalized patients in this study and elevates the risk for potential medication errors during and after hospitalization. Improved electronic systems for managing therapeutic interchange and medication reconciliation may be valuable. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Male#Medication Reconciliation#Patient Discharge#Retrospective Studies'
b'The prognosis of paraquat (PQ) poisoning is highly correlated to plasma PQ concentration, which has been identified as the most important index in PQ poisoning. This study investigated the predictive value of coagulation, liver, and kidney indices in prognosticating PQ-poisoning patients, when aligned with plasma PQ concentrations. Coagulation, liver, and kidney indices were first analyzed by variance analysis, receiver operating characteristic curves, and Fisher discriminant analysis. Then, a new, intelligent, machine learning-based system was established to effectively provide prognostic analysis of PQ-poisoning patients based on a combination of the aforementioned indices. In the proposed system, an enhanced extreme learning machine wrapped with a grey wolf-optimization strategy was developed to predict the risk status from a pool of 103 patients (56 males and 47 females); of these, 52 subjects were deceased and 51 alive. The proposed method was rigorously evaluated against this real-life dataset, in terms of accuracy, Matthews correlation coefficients, sensitivity, and specificity. Additionally, the feature selection was investigated to identify correlating factors for risk status. The results demonstrated that there were significant differences in the coagulation, liver, and kidney indices between deceased and surviving subjects (p<0.05). Aspartate aminotransferase, prothrombin time, prothrombin activity, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase, urea nitrogen, and creatinine were the most highly correlated indices in PQ poisoning and showed statistical significance (p<0.05) in predicting PQ-poisoning prognoses. According to the feature selection, the most important correlated indices were found to be associated with aspartate aminotransferase, the aspartate aminotransferase to alanine ratio, creatinine, prothrombin time, and prothrombin activity. The method proposed here showed excellent results that were better than that produced based on blood-PQ concentration alone. These promising results indicated that the combination of these indices can provide a new avenue for prognosticating the outcome of PQ poisoning. labels: #Blood Coagulation#Herbicides#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Function Tests#Liver#Liver Function Tests#Machine Learning#Paraquat#Prognosis'
b"Many of the world's food-insecure and undernourished people are smallholder farmers in developing countries. This is especially true in Africa. There is an urgent need to make smallholder agriculture and food systems more nutrition-sensitive. African farm households are known to consume a sizeable part of what they produce at home. Less is known about how much subsistence agriculture actually contributes to household diets, and how this contribution changes seasonally. We use representative data from rural Ethiopia covering every month of one full year to address this knowledge gap. On average, subsistence production accounts for 58% of rural households' calorie consumption, that is, 42% of the calories consumed are from purchased foods. Some seasonal variation occurs. During the lean season, purchased foods account for more than half of all calories consumed. But even during the main harvest and post-harvest season, purchased foods contribute more than one-third to total calorie consumption. Markets are even more important for dietary quality. During all seasons, purchased foods play a much larger role for dietary diversity than subsistence production. These findings suggest that strengthening rural markets needs to be a key element in strategies to improve food security and dietary quality in the African small-farm sector. labels: #Agriculture#Developing Countries#Diet#Ethiopia#Food Supply#Rural Population#Seasons"
b'BACKGROUND: The incidence of oropharyngeal cancer (OPC) in New Zealand (NZ) has more than doubled over the last 14 years with 126 cases in 2010. Overseas studies have shown that human papillomavirus (HPV) plays a significant role in the development of these cancers. However, the role of HPV in OPC and the burden on the NZ health system is unclear.AIM: The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence and the genotypes of HPV associated with OPC in New Zealand.METHODS: In this study, 621 OPC were identified from cancer registry data from 1996-98, 2003-05, and 2010-12. Biopsies of 267 cases were then retrieved from laboratories throughout New Zealand. p16 immunohistochemistry and a human beta globin PCR were performed on all specimens. HPV genotyping was performed on all beta globin positive specimens using real-time PCR with melt analysis.RESULTS: Using a p16/PCR algorithm, 77.9% (95% CI: 71.1-83.5%) of cases were attributable to HPV. Of these, 98.5% were HPV 16 positive. There was also one case each of HPV 33 and 35. The percentage of HPV positive cases increased from 61.9% (95% CI: 40.9%- 79.2%) in 1996-98 to 87.5% (95% CI: 79.8%- 92.5%) in 2010-12. Results from the multivariable model, adjusted for sex and ethnicity found statistically significant associations between HPV positivity and timeframe (OR: 5.65, 95% CI: 2.60-12.30, 2010-12 vs 1996-98), and between HPV positivity and patient age (OR: 0.55, 95% CI: 0.33-0.99, \xe2\x89\xa561 years vs \xe2\x89\xa460 years).CONCLUSIONS: This data is consistent with data from other developed countries showing an increase in cases of HPV positive OPC in New Zealand, and the majority of cases being attributable to HPV 16. These results support the recent inclusion of males into the nationally funded immunization schedule for Gardasil\xc2\xae 9. labels: #Alphapapillomavirus#DNA, Viral#Humans#New Zealand#Oropharyngeal Neoplasms#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Registries'
b'Several authors have studied the influence of light on both human physiology and emotions. Blue light has been proved to reduce sleepiness by suppression of melatonin secretion and it is also present in many emotion-related studies. Most of these have a common lack of objective methodology since results and conclusions are based on subjective perception of emotions. The aim of this work was the objective assessment of the effect of blue lighting in post-stress relaxation, in comparison with white lighting, by means of bio-signals and standardized procedures. We conducted a study in which twelve healthy volunteers were stressed and then performed a relaxation session within a chromotherapy room with blue (test group) or white (control group) lighting. We conclude that the blue lighting accelerates the relaxation process after stress in comparison with conventional white lighting. The relaxation time decreased by approximately three-fold (1.1 vs. 3.5 minutes). We also observed a convergence time (3.5-5 minutes) after which the advantage of blue lighting disappeared. This supports the relationship between color of light and stress, and the observations reported in previous works. These findings could be useful in clinical and educational environments, as well as in daily-life context and emerging technologies such as neuromarketing. However, our study must be extended to draw reliable conclusions and solid scientific evidence. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Color#Electrocardiography#Electroencephalography#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Light#Male#Relaxation Therapy#Stress, Psychological#Young Adult'
b'The gender gap in STEM fields has prompted a great deal of discussion, but what factors underlie performance deficits remain poorly understood. We show that female students underperformed on exams compared to their male counterparts across ten large introductory biology course sections in fall 2016 (N>1500 students). Females also reported higher levels of test anxiety and course-relevant science interest. Results from mediation analyses revealed an intriguing pattern: for female students only, and regardless of their academic standing, test anxiety negatively impacted exam performance, while interest in the course-specific science topics increased exam performance. Thus, instructors seeking equitable classrooms can aim to decrease test anxiety and increase student interest in science course content. We provide strategies for mitigating test anxiety and suggestions for alignment of course content with student interest, with the hope of successfully reimagining the STEM pathway as one that is equally accessible to all. labels: #Biology#Female#Humans#Male#Sex Factors'
b"AIMS: To examine whether physical activity as an adjunct to outpatient alcohol treatment has an effect on alcohol consumption following participation in an exercise intervention of six months' duration, and at 12 months after treatment initiation.METHODS: The study is a randomized controlled study with three arms: Patients allocated to (A) treatment as usual, (B) treatment as usual and supervised group exercise, (C) treatment as usual and individual physical exercise. The primary outcome measure was excessive drinking six months after treatment start and completion of the intervention. A logistic regression model was used to evaluate the odds of excessive drinking among the three groups, based on intention-to-treat. Changes in level of physical activity in all three groups were tested by using a generalized linear mixed model. A multiple linear model was used to test if there was an association between amount of performed physical activity and alcohol consumption.RESULTS: A total of 175 patients (68.6% male) participated. Response rates were 77.7% at six months and 57.1% at 12 months follow-up. OR 0.99 [95% CI: 0.46; 2.14], p = 0.976 for excessive drinking in the group exercise condition, and 1.02 [95% CI: 0.47; 2.18], p = 0.968 in the individual exercise condition, which, when compared to the control group as reference, did not differ statistically significantly. Participants with moderate level physical activity had lower odds for excessive drinking OR = 0.12 [0.05; 0.31], p<0.001 than participants with low level physical activity. Amount of alcohol consumption in the intervention groups decreased by 4% [95% CI: 0.03; 6.8], p = 0.015 for each increased exercising day.CONCLUSIONS: No direct effect of physical exercise on drinking outcome was found. Moderate level physical activity was protective against excessive drinking following treatment. A dose-response effect of exercise on drinking outcome supports the need for implementing physically active lifestyles for patients in treatment for alcohol use disorder. labels: #Adult#Alcohol-Related Disorders#Denmark#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged"
b"PURPOSES: Restorative proctocolectomy (RPC) with ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA) is the procedure of choice for patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) and ulcerative colitis (UC) despite morbidities that can lead to pouch failure. We aimed to identify factors associated with pouch-related morbidities.METHODS: A retrospective analysis of patients who underwent RPC with IPAA was performed. To investigate the factors associated with pouch-related morbidities, patients' preoperative demographic and clinical factors, and intraoperative factors were included in the analysis.RESULTS: A total of 49 patients with UC, FAP, and colorectal cancer were included. Twenty patients (40.8%) experienced leakage-related, functional, and/or pouchitis-related morbidities. Patients with American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade 2 or 3 had a higher risk of functional morbidity than those with grade 1. Intraoperative blood loss exceeding 300.0 mL was associated with an increased risk of pouchitis-related morbidity.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated associations of higher ASA grade and increased intraoperative blood loss with poor functional outcomes and pouchitis, respectively. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Proctocolectomy, Restorative#Treatment Outcome"
b'The roots of land plants associate with microbes, including fungal symbionts that can confer abiotic stress tolerance. Bitumen extraction following oil-sand surface mining in the Athabasca region of Alberta, Canada removes plant nutrients but leaves a petrochemical residue, making the coarse tailings (CT) hostile to both plants and microbes. We isolated an endophyte strain of the Ascomycete Trichoderma harzianum we call TSTh20-1 (hereafter, TSTh) from a dandelion that was naturally growing on CT. TSTh colonization allowed tomato, wheat, and remediation seed mixtures to germinate and their seedlings to flourish on CT without the use of fertilizer. Compared to control plants, TSTh increased germination speed, percent germination, and biomass accumulation. TSTh also improved plant water use efficiency and drought recovery. TSTh-colonized plants secreted twice the level of peroxidase into CT as did plants alone. Over two months, plants colonized with TSTh doubled the petrochemical mobilization from CT over plants alone, suggesting a peroxide-mediated mechanism for petrochemical degradation. TSTh grew on autoclaved CT, bitumen, and other petrochemicals as sole carbon sources. Further, TSTh is a micro-aerobe that could metabolize 13C-phenanthrene to 13CO2 in 0.5% oxygen. TSTh has excellent potential for contributing to revegetating and remediating petrochemical contamination. labels: #Fungi#Plant Development#Soil#Symbiosis'
b'BACKGROUND: Monitoring cardiac output (CO) is important to optimize hemodynamic function in critically ill patients. The prevalence of aortic valve insufficiency (AI) is rising in the aging population. However, reliability of CO monitoring techniques in AI is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of AI on accuracy, precision, and trending ability of transcardiopulmonary thermodilution-derived COTCPTD in comparison with pulmonary artery catheter thermodilution COPAC.METHODS: Sixteen anesthetized domestic pigs were subjected to serial simultaneous measurements of COPAC and COTCPTD. In a novel experimental model, AI was induced by retraction of an expanded Dormia basket in the aortic valve annulus. The Dormia basket was delivered via a Judkins catheter guided by substernal epicardial echocardiography. High (HPC), moderate (MPC) and low cardiac preload conditions (LPC) were induced by fluid unloading (20 ml kg-1 blood withdrawal) and loading (subsequent retransfusion of the shed blood and additional infusion of 20 ml kg-1 hydroxyethyl starch). Within each preload condition CO was measured before and after the onset of AI. For statistical analysis, we used a mixed model analysis of variance, Bland-Altman analysis, the percentage error and concordance analysis.RESULTS: Experimental AI had a mean regurgitant volume of 33.6 \xc2\xb1 12.0 ml and regurgitant fraction of 42.9 \xc2\xb1 12.6%. The percentage error between COTCPTD and COPAC during competent valve function and after induction of substantial AI was: HPC 17.7% vs. 20.0%, MPC 20.5% vs. 26.1%, LPC 26.5% vs. 28.1% (pooled data: 22.5% vs. 24.1%). The ability to trend CO-changes induced by fluid loading and unloading did not differ between baseline and AI (concordance rate 95.8% during both conditions).CONCLUSION: Despite substantial AI, transcardiopulmonary thermodilution reliably measured CO under various cardiac preload conditions with a good ability to trend CO changes in a porcine model. COTCPTD and COPAC were interchangeable in substantial AI. labels: #Animals#Aortic Valve Insufficiency#Cardiac Output#Reproducibility of Results#Swine#Thermodilution'
b'BACKGROUND: Patients suffering from peritoneal carcinomatosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma were treated with Pressurized Intra Peritoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC), initial clinical findings are presented.METHODS: Single institution, tertiary referral center certified for therapy of peritoneal disease. Prospective data collection of PIPAC therapy with doxorubicin 1.5 mg/m2 and cisplatin 7.5 mg/m2 of body surface delivered at intervals of six weeks. The outcome criteria were microscopic pathological response, survival and adverse events (v4.0 CTCAE).RESULTS: A total of 20 patients (m/f = 3:1) with a mean age of 64.9 (range: 45.0 to 87.0) years underwent 41 PIPAC procedures without intraoperative complications. The mean number of PIPAC cycles was 2.1 (range: one to four). Ten patients with \xe2\x89\xa5 2 PIPAC applications were eligible for histological analysis to assess carcinoma regression. Complete or high grade tumor regression was found in two (10%) and five (25%) patients, respectively. An overall median survival of 36.6 weeks after the first PIPAC application was observed. One patient died postoperatively due to small bowel obstruction. No CTCAE level 3 and 4 complications occurred.CONCLUSION: In about one third of patients, repeated PIPAC therapy did induce histological regression of systemic chemo-resistant PC of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Prospective randomized trials are needed to further clarify any clinical impact of such observations. labels: #Adenocarcinoma#Aerosols#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Peritoneal Neoplasms'
b'Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a stress-activated transcription factor that induces a variety of cytoprotective genes. Nrf2 also mediates immunosuppressive effects in multiple inflammatory models. Upon activation, Nrf2 dissociates from its repressor protein, Keap1, and translocates to the nucleus where it induces Nrf2 target genes. The Nrf2-Keap1 interaction is disrupted by the environmental toxicant and chemotherapeutic agent arsenic trioxide (ATO). The purpose of the present study was to determine the effects of ATO on early events of T cell activation and the role of Nrf2 in those effects. The Nrf2 target genes Hmox-1, Nqo-1, and Gclc were all upregulated by ATO (1-2 \xce\xbcM) in splenocytes derived from wild-type, but not Nrf2-null, mice, suggesting that Nrf2 is activated by ATO in splenocytes. ATO also inhibited IFN\xce\xb3, IL-2, and GM-CSF mRNA and protein production in wild-type splenocytes activated with the T cell activator, anti-CD3/anti-CD28. However, ATO also decreased production of these cytokines in activated splenocytes from Nrf2-null mice, suggesting the inhibition is independent of Nrf2. Interestingly, ATO inhibited TNF\xce\xb1 protein secretion, but not mRNA expression, in activated splenocytes suggesting the inhibition is due to post-transcriptional modification. In addition, c-Fos DNA binding was significantly diminished by ATO in wild-type and Nrf2-null splenocytes activated with anti-CD3/anti-CD28, consistent with the observed inhibition of cytokine production by ATO. Collectively, this study suggests that although ATO activates Nrf2 in splenocytes, inhibition of early T cell cytokine production by ATO occurs independently of Nrf2 and may instead be due to impaired AP-1 DNA binding. labels: #Animals#Antigens, CD#Arsenicals#Cytokines#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#Oxides#Spleen#T-Lymphocytes'
b'A closer association has been found between the microRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism and the risk of head and neck carcinoma in some molecular epidemiological studies. Recently two meta-analyses were performed to explore the relationship between miRNA-146a polymorphisms and the susceptibility of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN); however, they yielded conflicting results in susceptibility regarding ethnic variations. Hence, the present study was performed to explain the relationship between the miRNA-146a rs2910164 polymorphism and the risk of SCCHN development of Chinese patients. We retrieved databases and screened eligible papers up to March 10, 2017 and then we extracted the essential data. The subgroup analyses were also performed based on the tumor site, region, and genotyping means. Crude odds ratios (OR) at 95% confidence intervals (CI) were chosen to describe the strength of the association. As a result, 6 publications were included in our study which involved 8 independent case-control studies. A significant association was found between miR-146a rs2910164 polymorphisms and the risk of SCCHN in Chinese patients according to the overall data [CC+CG vs. GG: OR = 1.13; 95%CI = 1.00-1.29; CC vs. GG: OR = 1.19; 95%CI = 1.03-1.38]. According to the subgroup analysis based on tumor site, the risk of cancer was significantly increased among laryngeal cancer (dominant model: OR = 1.76, 95%CI = 1.26~2.46, P = 0.001; homozygote model: OR = 1.83, 95%CI = 1.25~2.67, P = 0.002) and nasopharyngeal carcinoma (homozygote model: OR = 1.41, 95%CI = 1.05~1.90, P = 0.022). In summary, variant alleles of miR-146a rs2910164 alleles may have an association with the increased risk of SCCHN in Chinese patients, and these associations differed based on tumor site. Further studies including a larger sample size will be necessary to clarify these results. labels: #Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Case-Control Studies#China#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#MicroRNAs#Polymorphism, Genetic'
b'Microbial translocation is now viewed as a central event in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammation during HIV infection. Thymic function failure is another crucial factor involved in HIV disease progression. The goal of this study was to explore the hypothesis of potential links between microbial translocation and thymic function in HIV-1 patients living in Belgium. The extent of microbial translocation was assessed through the measurement of soluble CD14 (sCD14). T-cell receptor excision circles (sjTRECs and d\xce\xb2TRECs) were used as a measure of thymic function. Data were collected from 75 HIV-infected patients. Simple and complex linear regressions were done to analyze the link between these two processes. We found a statistically relevant negative correlation between thymopoiesis (sjTREC) and sCD14 level (p = 0.004). These results suggest a link between thymic function failure, microbial translocation and innate immune activation. labels: #Belgium#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Lipopolysaccharide Receptors#Male#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Thymus Gland'
b'AtlA is the major peptidoglycan hydrolase of Enterococcus faecalis involved in cell division and cellular autolysis. The secreted zinc metalloprotease, gelatinase (GelE), has been identified as an important regulator of cellular function through post-translational modification of protein substrates. AtlA is a known target of GelE, and their interplay has been proposed to regulate AtlA function. To study the protease-mediated post-translational modification of AtlA, monoclonal antibodies were developed as research tools. Flow cytometry and Western blot analysis suggests that in the presence of GelE, surface-bound AtlA exists primarily as a N-terminally truncated form whereas in the absence of GelE, the N-terminal domain of AtlA is retained. We identified the primary GelE cleavage site occurring near the transition between the T/E rich Domain I and catalytic region, Domain II via N-terminal sequencing. Truncation of AtlA had no effect on the peptidoglycan hydrolysis activity of AtlA. However, we observed that N-terminal cleavage was required for efficient AtlA-mediated cell division while unprocessed AtlA was unable to resolve dividing cells into individual units. Furthermore, we observed that the processed AtlA has the propensity to localize to the cell septum on wild-type cells whereas unprocessed AtlA in the \xce\x94gelE strain were dispersed over the cell surface. Combined, these results suggest that AtlA septum localization and subsequent cell separation can be modulated by a single GelE-mediated N-terminal cleavage event, providing new insights into the post-translation modification of AtlA and the mechanisms governing chaining and cell separation. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Blotting, Western#Cell Separation#Enterococcus faecalis#Flow Cytometry#Metalloproteases#Zinc'
b'To assess potential physical interactions of type I phyA with the type II phyB-phyE phytochromes in vivo, transgenes expressing fusion gene forms of phyA were introduced into the Arabidopsis phyA mutant background. When a single c-Myc (myc) epitope is added to either the N- or C-terminus of phyA, the constructs completely complement phyA mutant phenotypes. However, addition of larger tags, such as six consecutive myc epitopes or the yellow fluorescent protein sequence, result in fusion proteins that show reduced activity. All the tagged phyA proteins migrate as dimers on native gels and co-immunoprecipitation reveals no binding interaction of phyA to any of the type II phys in the dark or under continuous far-red light. Dimers of the phyA 1-615 amino acid N-terminal photosensory domain (NphyA), generated in vivo with a yeast GAL4 dimerization domain and attached to a constitutive nuclear localization sequence, are expressed at a low level and, although they cause a cop phenotype in darkness and mediate a very low fluence response to pulses of FR, have no activity under continuous FR. It is concluded that type I phyA in its Pr form is present in plants predominantly or exclusively as a homodimer and does not stably interact with type II phys in a dimer-to-dimer manner. In addition, its activity in mediating response to continuous FR is sensitive to modification of its N- or C-terminus. labels: #Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Dimerization#Phytochrome A#Transgenes'
b'We have applied correlative microscopy to identify the key constituents of a dorsal rib fossil from Koreanosaurus boseongensis and its hosting mudstone discovered at the rich fossil site in Boseong, South Korea, to investigate the factors that likely contributed to diagenesis and the preservation of fossil bone. Calcite and illite were the commonly occurring phases in the rib bone, hosting mudstone, and the boundary region in-between. The boundary region may have contributed to bone preservation once it fully formed by acting as a protective shell. Fluorapatite crystals in the rib bone matrix signified diagenetic alteration of the original bioapatite crystals. While calcite predominantly occupied vascular channels and cracks, platy illite crystals widely occupied miniscule pores throughout the bone matrix. Thorough transmission electron microscopy (TEM) study of illite within the bone matrix indicated the solid-state transformation of 1M to 2M without composition change, which was more evident from the lateral variation of 1M to 2M within the same layer. The high level of lattice disordering of 2M illite suggested an early stage of 1M to 2M transformation. Thus, the diagenetic alteration of both apatite and illite crystals within the bone matrix may have increased its overall density, as the preferred orientation of apatite crystals from moderate to strong degrees was evident despite the poor preservation of osteohistological features. The combined effects of rapid burial, formation of a boundary region, and diagenesis of illite and apatite within the bone matrix may have contributed to the rib bone preservation. labels: #Animals#Bone and Bones#Dinosaurs#Fossils#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'This study evaluated the chronic effects of fluoxetine, a commonly prescribed SSRI antidepressant, on the peripheral and central levels of inflammatory cytokines including IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-6, TNF-\xce\xb1 and IL-17 over a 4-interval in a rat model of chronic mild stress (CMS) which resembles the human experience of depression. Twenty-four Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to CMS+vehicle (n = 9), CMS+fluoxetine (n = 9) and the control (n = 6) groups. Sucrose preference and forced swim tests were performed to assess behavioral change. Blood samples were collected on day 0, 60, 90 and 120 for measurement of cytokine levels in plasma. On day 120, the brain was harvested and central level of cytokines was tested using Luminex. Four months of fluoxetine treatment resulted in changes in the sucrose preference and immobility time measurements, commensurate with antidepressant effects. The CMS+vehicle group exhibited elevated plasma levels of IL-1\xce\xb2, IL-17, and TNF-\xce\xb1 on day 60 or 120. Rats treated with fluoxetine demonstrated lower IL-1\xce\xb2 in plasma and brain after 90 and 120-day treatment respectively (p<0.05). There was a trend of reduction of IL-6 and TNF-\xce\xb1 concentration. This study revealed the potential therapeutic effects of fluoxetine by reducing central and peripheral levels of IL-1\xce\xb2 in the alleviation of depressive symptoms. labels: #Animals#Brain#Cytokines#Depression#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Fluoxetine#Inflammation Mediators#Rats#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Serotonin Uptake Inhibitors#Swimming'
b'The effects of Chinese pine (Pinus tabuliformis) on soil variables after afforestation have been established, but microbial community changes still need to be explored. Using high-throughput sequencing technology, we analyzed bacterial and fungal community composition and diversity in soils from three stands of different-aged, designated 12-year-old (PF1), 29-year-old (PF2), and 53-year-old (PF3), on a Chinese pine plantation and from a natural secondary forest (NSF) stand that was almost 80 years old. Abandoned farmland (BL) was also analyzed. Shannon index values of both bacterial and fungal community in PF1 were greater than those in PF2, PF3 and NSF. Proteobacteria had the lowest abundance in BL, and the abundance increased with stand age. The abundance of Actinobacteria was greater in BL and PF1 soils than those in other sites. Among fungal communities, the dominant taxa were Ascomycota in BL and PF1 and Basidiomycota in PF2, PF3 and NSF, which reflected the successional patterns of fungal communities during the development of Chinese pine plantations. Therefore, the diversity and dominant taxa of soil microbial community in stands 12 and 29 years of age appear to have undergone significant changes; afterward, the soil microbial community achieved a relatively stable state. Furthermore, the abundances of the most dominant bacterial and fungal communities correlated significantly with organic C, total N, C:N, available N, and available P, indicating the dependence of these microbes on soil nutrients. Overall, our findings suggest that the large changes in the soil microbial community structure of Chinese pine plantation forests may be attributed to the phyla present (e.g., Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Ascomycota and Basidiomycota) which were affected by soil carbon and nutrients in the Loess Plateau. labels: #Bacteria#China#Fungi#Pinus#Soil#Soil Microbiology'
b'Corynebacterium diphtheriae (Cd) is a Gram-positive human pathogen responsible for diphtheria infection and once regarded for high mortalities worldwide. The fatality gradually decreased with improved living standards and further alleviated when many immunization programs were introduced. However, numerous drug-resistant strains emerged recently that consequently decreased the efficacy of current therapeutics and vaccines, thereby obliging the scientific community to start investigating new therapeutic targets in pathogenic microorganisms. In this study, our contributions include the prediction of modelome of 13 C. diphtheriae strains, using the MHOLline workflow. A set of 463 conserved proteins were identified by combining the results of pangenomics based core-genome and core-modelome analyses. Further, using subtractive proteomics and modelomics approaches for target identification, a set of 23 proteins was selected as essential for the bacteria. Considering human as a host, eight of these proteins (glpX, nusB, rpsH, hisE, smpB, bioB, DIP1084, and DIP0983) were considered as essential and non-host homologs, and have been subjected to virtual screening using four different compound libraries (extracted from the ZINC database, plant-derived natural compounds and Di-terpenoid Iso-steviol derivatives). The proposed ligand molecules showed favorable interactions, lowered energy values and high complementarity with the predicted targets. Our proposed approach expedites the selection of C. diphtheriae putative proteins for broad-spectrum development of novel drugs and vaccines, owing to the fact that some of these targets have already been identified and validated in other organisms. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacterial Proteins#Bacterial Vaccines#Computer Simulation#Corynebacterium diphtheriae#Genome, Bacterial#Humans#Ligands#Models, Biological#Molecular Docking Simulation'
b'INTRODUCTION: Exposure to prenatal inflammation is associated with diverse adverse neurobehavioral outcomes in exposed offspring. The mechanism by which inflammation negatively impacts the developing brain is poorly understood. Metabolomic profiling provides an opportunity to identify specific metabolites, and novel pathways, which may reveal mechanisms by which exposure to intrauterine inflammation promotes fetal and neonatal brain injury. Therefore, we investigated whether exposure to intrauterine inflammation altered the metabolome of the amniotic fluid, fetal and neonatal brain. Additionally, we explored whether changes in the metabolomic profile from exposure to prenatal inflammation occurs in a sex-specific manner in the neonatal brain.METHODS: CD-1, timed pregnant mice received an intrauterine injection of lipopolysaccharide (50 \xce\xbcg/dam) or saline on embryonic day 15. Six and 48 hours later mice were sacrificed and amniotic fluid, and fetal brains were collected (n = 8/group). Postnatal brains were collected on day of life 1 (n = 6/group/sex). Global biochemical profiles were determined using ultra performance liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (Metabolon Inc.). Statistical analyses were performed by comparing samples from lipopolysaccharide and saline treated animals at each time point. For the P1 brains, analyses were stratified by sex.RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to intrauterine inflammation induced unique, temporally regulated changes in the metabolic profiles of amniotic fluid, fetal brain and postnatal brain. Six hours after exposure to intrauterine inflammation, the amniotic fluid and the fetal brain metabolomes were dramatically altered with significant enhancements of amino acid and purine metabolites. The amniotic fluid had enhanced levels of several members of the (hypo) xanthine pathway and this compound was validated as a potential biomarker. By 48 hours, the number of altered biochemicals in both the fetal brain and the amniotic fluid had declined, yet unique profiles existed. Neonatal pups exposed to intrauterine inflammation have significant alterations in their lipid metabolites, in particular, fatty acids. These sex-specific metabolic changes within the newborn brain offer an explanation regarding the sexual dimorphism of certain psychiatric and neurobehavioral disorders associated with exposure to prenatal inflammation. labels: #Amniotic Fluid#Animals#Animals, Newborn#Brain#Female#Inflammation#Metabolomics#Mice#Pregnancy#Uterus'
b'BACKGROUND & AIMS: The impact of marijuana on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is largely unknown. We studied the association between marijuana and NAFLD utilizing cross-sectional data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 2005-2014 and NHANES III (1988-1994).METHODS: Suspected NAFLD was diagnosed if serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was>30 IU/L for men and>19 IU/L for women in the absence of other liver diseases (NHANES 2005-2014). In NHANES III cohort, NAFLD was defined based on ultrasonography.RESULTS: Of the 14,080 (NHANES 2005-2014) and 8,286 (NHANES III) participants, prevalence of suspected NAFLD and ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD were inversely associated with marijuana use (p<0.001). Compared to marijuana-na\xc3\xafve participants, marijuana users were less likely to have suspected NAFLD (odds ratio [OR]: 0.90, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.82-0.99 for past user; OR: 0.68, 95% CI: 0.58-0.80 for current user) and ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD (OR: 0.75, 95% CI: 0.57-0.98 for current user) in the age, gender, ethnicity-adjusted model. On multivariate analysis, the ORs for suspected NAFLD comparing current light or heavy users to non-users were 0.76 (95% CI 0.58-0.98) and 0.70 (95% CI 0.56-0.89), respectively (P for trend = 0.001) with similar trends in ultrasonographically-diagnosed NAFLD (OR: 0.77, 95% CI: 0.59-1.00 for current user; OR: 0.71, 95% CI: 0.51-0.97 for current light user). In insulin resistance-adjusted model, marijuana use remained an independent predictor of lower risk of suspected NAFLD.CONCLUSIONS: In this nationally representative sample, active marijuana use provided a protective effect against NAFLD independent of known metabolic risk factors. The pathophysiology is unclear and warrants further investigation. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Marijuana Smoking#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Ultrasonography#United States'
b'Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a poorly understood multifactorial pandemic disorder. One of the hallmarks of NAFLD, hepatic steatosis, is a common feature in canine congenital portosystemic shunts. The aim of this study was to gain detailed insight into the pathogenesis of steatosis in this large animal model. Hepatic lipid accumulation, gene-expression analysis and HPLC-MS of neutral lipids and phospholipids in extrahepatic (EHPSS) and intrahepatic portosystemic shunts (IHPSS) was compared to healthy control dogs. Liver organoids of diseased dogs and healthy control dogs were incubated with palmitic- and oleic-acid, and lipid accumulation was quantified using LD540. In histological slides of shunt livers, a 12-fold increase of lipid content was detected compared to the control dogs (EHPSS P<0.01; IHPSS P = 0.042). Involvement of lipid-related genes to steatosis in portosystemic shunting was corroborated using gene-expression profiling. Lipid analysis demonstrated different triglyceride composition and a shift towards short chain and omega-3 fatty acids in shunt versus healthy dogs, with no difference in lipid species composition between shunt types. All organoids showed a similar increase in triacylglycerols after free fatty acids enrichment. This study demonstrates that steatosis is probably secondary to canine portosystemic shunts. Unravelling the pathogenesis of this hepatic steatosis might contribute to a better understanding of steatosis in NAFLD. labels: #Animals#Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Dogs#Lipid Metabolism#Liver#Mass Spectrometry#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Portasystemic Shunt, Surgical'
b'BACKGROUND: Treatment satisfaction in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) may impact adherence and thus clinical outcomes. The objective of this study was to measure the satisfaction of patients with RRMS with injectable disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) and to evaluate the factors associated with treatment satisfaction.MATERIAL AND METHODS: In this observational retrospective study conducted in the neurology departments of 35 hospitals throughout Spain, demographic data, disease characteristics, and information on treatment with injectable DMTs were collected at a single scheduled visit. Treatment satisfaction was assessed using the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM), version 1.4. Patients also answered complementary questions about the factors that might affect treatment satisfaction. The data collected were analyzed descriptively. A regression model was used to explore the factors associated with treatment satisfaction.RESULTS: The study included 445 patients (mean\xc2\xb1SD age, 41\xc2\xb110.2 years; two-thirds women). The percentages treated with each DMT were Avonex 28.5%, Rebif 44 \xce\xbcg 24.5%, Copaxone 22.5%, Betaferon 13.0%, Rebif22 \xce\xbcg 8.3% and Extavia 3.1%. The mean\xc2\xb1SD overall satisfaction according to the TSQM was 68.8\xc2\xb118.6 and the highest overall satisfaction was reported for Rebif 22 \xce\xbcg (72.4\xc2\xb120.3) and the lowest for Extavia (61.7\xc2\xb123.7). In the regression analysis, rehabilitation, interference with social life, pain on injection and number of MS treatments received were significantly associated with a decrease in overall TSMQ score. A small but significant negative correlation was found between EDSS scores and TSMQ scores (rho = -0.11, p = 0.02) and effectiveness (rho = -0.17, p<0.001). A perceived inconvenience of injections was reflected by the stated preference of 83% for once-daily oral treatment over other administration routes.CONCLUSIONS: Patients on stable injectable DMT therapy were reasonably satisfied with their treatment. Our results suggest that the main source of dissatisfaction with the current treatment is the inconvenience of the administration regimen. labels: #Adult#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting#Patient Satisfaction'
b'INTRODUCTION: In donor health research, the \'Healthy Donor Effect\' (HDE) often biases study results and hampers their interpretation. This refers to the fact that donors are a selected \'healthier\' subset of a population due to both donor selection procedures and self-selection. Donors with long versus short donor careers, or with high versus low donation intensities are often compared to avoid this HDE, but underlying health differences might also cause these differences in behaviour. Our aim was to estimate to what extent a donor\xc2\xb4s perceived health status associates with donation cessation and intensity.METHODS: All active whole blood donors participating in Donor InSight (2007-2009; 11,107 male; 12,616 female) were included in this prospective cohort study. We performed Cox survival and Poisson regression analyses to assess whether self-reported health status, medication use, disease diagnosed by a physician and recently having consulted a general practitioner (GP) or specialist were associated with (time to) donation cessation and donation intensity.RESULTS: At the end of 2013, 44% of the donors in this study had stopped donating. Donors in self-rated good health had a 15% lower risk to stop donating compared to donors in perceived poorer health. Medication use, disease diagnoses and consulting a GP were associated with a 20-40% increased risk to stop donating and a lower donation intensity, when adjusting for age, number of donations and new donor status. Both men and women reporting good health made on average 10% more donations.CONCLUSION: Donors with a "good" health status were less likely to stop donating blood and tended to donate blood more often than donors with perceived poorer health status. This implies that the HDE is an important source of selection bias in studies on donor health and this includes studies where comparisons within donors are made. This HDE should be adjusted for appropriately when assessing health effects of donation and donors\' health status may provide estimates of future donation behavior. labels: #Adult#Blood Donors#Female#Health Status#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies'
b'We investigate the extent to which minority group members are surrounded by outgroup members in their immediate environment as a predictor of social dominance orientation. Using a large representative sample of New Zealanders, we found that minority group members in outgroup dense environments reported lower levels of social dominance orientation (Study 1). In studies 2 and 3, Asian Australian and Black American participants who were surrounded by outgroup members reported lower social dominance orientation. For majority group (White) participants there was no association between social dominance orientation and outgroup density. Study 4 explained the overall pattern: Black Americans surrounded by outgroup members perceived their group to be of lower status in their immediate environment, and through this, reported lower social dominance orientation. This article adds to growing literature on contextual factors that predict social dominance orientation, especially among minority group members. labels: #Continental Population Groups#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#New Zealand#Social Dominance'
b'Gut microbiota facilitate many aspects of human health and development, but dysbiotic microbiota can promote hyperplasia and inflammation and contribute to human diseases such as cancer. Human patients infected with the gastric cancer-causing bacterium Helicobacter pylori have altered microbiota; however, whether dysbiosis contributes to disease in this case is unknown. Many H. pylori human disease phenotypes are associated with a potent virulence protein, CagA, which is translocated into host epithelial cells where it alters cell polarity and manipulates host-signaling pathways to promote disease. We hypothesized that CagA alone could contribute to H. pylori pathogenesis by inducing microbial dysbiosis that promotes disease. Here we use a transgenic Drosophila model of CagA expression to genetically disentangle the effects of the virulence protein CagA from that of H. pylori infection. We found that expression of CagA within Drosophila intestinal stem cells promotes excess cell proliferation and is sufficient to alter host microbiota. Rearing CagA transgenic flies germ-free revealed that the dysbiotic microbiota contributes to cell proliferation phenotypes and also elicits expression of innate immune components, Diptericin and Duox. Further investigations revealed interspecies interactions are required for this dysbiotic CagA-dependent microbiota to promote proliferation in CagA transgenic and healthy control Drosophila. Our model establishes that CagA can alter gut microbiota and exacerbate cell proliferation and immune phenotypes previously attributed to H. pylori infection. This work provides valuable new insights into the mechanisms by which interactions between a specific virulence factor and the resident microbiota can contribute to the development and progression of disease. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Antigens, Bacterial#Bacterial Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Drosophila melanogaster#Epithelial Cells#Female#Helicobacter pylori#Inflammation#Intestines'
b'A priority for biomedical research is to understand the causes of variation in susceptibility to infection. To investigate genetic variation in a model system, we used flies collected from single populations of three different species of Drosophila and artificially selected them for resistance to the parasitoid wasp Leptopilina boulardi, and found that survival rates increased 3 to 30 fold within 6 generations. Resistance in all three species involves a large increase in the number of the circulating hemocytes that kill parasitoids. However, the different species achieve this in different ways, with D. melanogaster moving sessile hemocytes into circulation while the other species simply produce more cells. Therefore, the convergent evolution of the immune phenotype has different developmental bases. These changes are costly, as resistant populations of all three species had greatly reduced larval survival. In all three species resistance is only costly when food is in short supply, and resistance was rapidly lost from D. melanogaster populations when food is restricted. Furthermore, evolving resistance to L. boulardi resulted in cross-resistance against other parasitoids. Therefore, whether a population evolves resistance will depend on ecological conditions including food availability and the presence of different parasite species. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Disease Resistance#Drosophila#Immunity, Cellular#Species Specificity#Wasps'
b'Domain I (DI) of beta-2-glycoprotein I (\xce\xb22GPI) contains the immunodominant epitope for pathogenic antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). DI is exposed in the linear form of the molecule but not in the circular form that comprises 90% of serum \xce\xb22GPI. The majority of circulating \xce\xb22GPI is biochemically reduced with two free thiols in Domain V. However, increased levels of oxidised \xce\xb22GPI are found in patients with antiphospholipid syndrome (APS). It is not known whether oxidation of \xce\xb22GPI favours the linear form of the molecule and thus promotes development of anti-DI antibodies. We investigated whether the proportion of oxidised \xce\xb22GPI associates with the presence of anti-DI in APS patients. Serum samples from 44 APS patients were screened for IgG, IgM and IgA anti-DI, anti-\xce\xb22GPI, anti-cardiolipin (anti-CL) and biochemically reduced \xce\xb22GPI. A negative correlation was found between the proportion of \xce\xb22GPI in the biochemically reduced form and IgG anti-DI levels (r = -0.54, p = 0.0002), but not with IgM or IgA anti-DI. Moreover, the proportion of \xce\xb22GPI in the reduced form was lower in IgG anti-DI positive than anti-DI negative APS patients (p = 0.02). The relative amount of reduced \xce\xb22GPI was no different between patients who were positive or negative for IgG, IgM and IgA anti-\xce\xb22GPI or anti-CL. This study demonstrates that oxidised \xce\xb22GPI lacking free cysteine-thiol groups most closely associates with IgG anti-DI positivity compared to IgG anti-CL and anti-\xce\xb22GPI. Future studies are required to ascertain the directionality of this association to define causation. labels: #Adult#Antiphospholipid Syndrome#Autoantibodies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidation-Reduction#beta 2-Glycoprotein I'
b'Severe hepatic inflammation is a common cause of acute liver injury following systemic infection with Ehrlichia, obligate Gram-negative intracellular bacteria that lack lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We have previously shown that type I IFN (IFN-I) and inflammasome activation are key host-pathogenic mediators that promote excessive inflammation and liver damage following fatal Ehrlichia infection. However, the underlying signals and mechanisms that regulate protective immunity and immunopathology during Ehrlichia infection are not well understood. To address this issue, we compared susceptibility to lethal Ixodes ovatus Ehrlichia (IOE) infection between wild type (WT) and MyD88-deficient (MyD88-/-) mice. We show here that MyD88-/- mice exhibited decreased inflammasome activation, attenuated liver injury, and were more resistant to lethal infection than WT mice, despite suppressed protective immunity and increased bacterial burden in the liver. MyD88-dependent inflammasome activation was also dependent on activation of the metabolic checkpoint kinase mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), inhibition of autophagic flux, and defective mitophagy in macrophages. Blocking mTORC1 signaling in infected WT mice and primary macrophages enhanced bacterial replication and attenuated inflammasome activation, suggesting autophagy promotes bacterial replication while inhibiting inflammasome activation. Finally, our data suggest TLR9 and IFN-I are upstream signaling mechanisms triggering MyD88-mediated mTORC1 and inflammasome activation in macrophages following Ehrlichia infection. This study reveals that Ehrlichia-induced liver injury and toxic shock are mediated by MyD88-dependent inflammasome activation and autophagy inhibition. labels: #Animals#Autophagy#Blotting, Western#Disease Models, Animal#Ehrlichia#Ehrlichiosis#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Flow Cytometry#Fluorescent Antibody Technique#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#In Situ Nick-End Labeling#Inflammasomes#Liver Failure, Acute#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Electron, Transmission#Myeloid Differentiation Factor 88#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Shock, Septic'
b'Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer is a herb used for medicinal purposes, and its discrimination according to cultivation age has been an important and practical issue. This study employed Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy with multivariate statistical analysis to obtain a prediction model for discriminating cultivation ages (5 and 6 years) and three different parts (rhizome, tap root, and lateral root) of P. ginseng. The optimal partial-least-squares regression (PLSR) models for discriminating ginseng samples were determined by selecting normalization methods, number of partial-least-squares (PLS) components, and variable influence on projection (VIP) cutoff values. The best prediction model for discriminating 5- and 6-year-old ginseng was developed using tap root, vector normalization applied after the second differentiation, one PLS component, and a VIP cutoff of 1.0 (based on the lowest root-mean-square error of prediction value). In addition, for discriminating among the three parts of P. ginseng, optimized PLSR models were established using data sets obtained from vector normalization, two PLS components, and VIP cutoff values of 1.5 (for 5-year-old ginseng) and 1.3 (for 6-year-old ginseng). To our knowledge, this is the first study to provide a novel strategy for rapidly discriminating the cultivation ages and parts of P. ginseng using FT-IR by selected normalization methods, number of PLS components, and VIP cutoff values. labels: #Multivariate Analysis#Panax#Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared'
b'Gut microbiota play an important role in human immunological processes, potentially affecting allergic diseases such as eczema. The diversity and structure of gut microbiota in infants with eczema have been previously documented. This study aims to evaluate by comparative metagenomics differences in genetic content in gut microbiota of infants with eczema and their matched controls. Stools were collected at the age of one month old from twelve infants from an at risk birth cohort in a case control manner. Clinical follow up for atopic outcomes were carried out at the age of 12 and 24 months. Microbial genomic DNA were extracted from stool samples and used for shotgun sequencing. Comparative metagenomic analysis showed that immune-regulatory TCAAGCTTGA motifs were significantly enriched in the six healthy controls (C) communities compared to the six eczema subjects (E), with many encoded by Bifidobacterium (38% of the total motifs in the C communities). Draft genomes of five Bifidobacterium species populations (B. longum, B. bifidum, B. breve, B. dentium, and B. pseudocatenulatum) were recovered from metagenomic datasets. The B. longum BFN-121-2 genome encoded more TCAAGCTTGA motifs (4.2 copies per one million genome sequence) than other Bifidobacterium genomes. Additionally, the communities in the stool of controls (C) were also significantly enriched in functions associated with tetrapyrrole biosynthesis compared to those of eczema (E). Our results show distinct immune-modulatory genomic properties of gut microbiota in infants associated with eczema and provide new insights into potential role of gut microbiota in affecting human immune homeostasis. labels: #Case-Control Studies#Eczema#Female#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Humans#Infant#Male#Phylogeny#Placebos'
b'OBJECTIVES: To test whether shade sails will increase the use of passive recreation areas (PRAs).METHODS: We conducted a stratified randomized pretest-posttest controlled design study in Melbourne, Australia, and Denver, Colorado, in 2010 to 2014. We randomized a sample of 144 public parks with 2 PRAs in full sun in a 1:3 ratio to treatment or control. Shade sails were built at 1 PRA per treatment park. The outcome was any use of the study PRA (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89576 pretest and n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89576 posttest observations; 100% follow-up).RESULTS: Compared with control PRAs (adjusted probability of use: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.17), use of treatment PRAs (pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.10, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.32) was higher at posttest (odds ratio [OR]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893.91; 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.71, 8.94). Shade increased use of PRAs in Denver (control: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.18, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.19; treatment: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.16, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.47) more than Melbourne (control: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.11, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.14; shaded: pretest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.06, posttest\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.19; OR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.98; 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.09, 8.14).CONCLUSIONS: Public investment in shade is warranted for skin cancer prevention and may be especially useful in the United States.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT02971709. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Australia#City Planning#Colorado#Environment Design#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Parks, Recreational#Prospective Studies#Skin Neoplasms#Young Adult'
b'OBJECTIVES: To evaluate a community-level sodium-reduction intervention in Boston, Massachusetts. Reducing sodium in the food offerings of community settings may help reduce hypertension disparities.METHODS: We examined changes in the proportion of prepackaged foods with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium in 7 hospitals, 8 YMCAs, 4 community health centers, and 2 organizations serving homeless populations. Research assistants documented prepackaged items in cafeterias, kiosks, and vending machines before and after the intervention (2013-2015). We assessed intervention change via linear mixed models accounting for repeated observations.RESULTS: There were 161 access points at baseline (4347 facings) and 171 (4996 facings) at follow-up. The percentage of prepackaged products with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium decreased from 29.0% at baseline to 21.5% at follow-up (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.003). Changes were driven by improvements in hospital cafeterias and kiosks (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.003). The percentage of products with greater than 200 milligrams of sodium in YMCA vending decreased 58% (from 27.2% to 11.5%; P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.017); other organizations had nonsignificant declines.CONCLUSIONS: We found modest reductions in the percentage of higher-sodium prepackaged products across community institutions. Community-level interventions may increase availability of lower-sodium products in the food supply. labels: #Boston#Community Health Centers#Food#Food Dispensers, Automatic#Food Service, Hospital#Health Promotion#Hospitals#Humans#Hypertension#Snacks#Sodium, Dietary'
b'OBJECTIVES: To deploy a methodology accurately identifying tweets marketing the illegal online sale of controlled substances.METHODS: We first collected tweets from the Twitter public application program interface stream filtered for prescription opioid keywords. We then used unsupervised machine learning (specifically, topic modeling) to identify topics associated with illegal online marketing and sales. Finally, we conducted Web forensic analyses to characterize different types of online vendors. We analyzed 619\xe2\x80\x89937 tweets containing the keywords codeine, Percocet, fentanyl, Vicodin, Oxycontin, oxycodone, and hydrocodone over a 5-month period from June to November 2015.RESULTS: A total of 1778 tweets (<\xe2\x80\x891%) were identified as marketing the sale of controlled substances online; 90% had imbedded hyperlinks, but only 46 were "live" at the time of the evaluation. Seven distinct URLs linked to Web sites marketing or illegally selling controlled substances online.CONCLUSIONS: Our methodology can identify illegal online sale of prescription opioids from large volumes of tweets. Our results indicate that controlled substances are trafficked online via different strategies and vendors. Public Health Implications. Our methodology can be used to identify illegal online sellers in criminal violation of the Ryan Haight Online Pharmacy Consumer Protection Act. labels: #Analgesics, Opioid#Crime#Humans#Marketing#Pharmaceutical Services, Online#Prescription Drug Misuse#Public Health#Social Media#Unsupervised Machine Learning'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess how integration of HIV surveillance and field services might influence surveillance data and linkage to care metrics.METHODS: We used HIV surveillance and field services data from King County, Washington, to assess potential impact of misclassification of prior diagnoses on numbers of new diagnoses. The relationship between partner services and linkage to care was evaluated with multivariable log-binomial regression models.RESULTS: Of the 2842 people who entered the King County HIV Surveillance System in 2010 to 2015, 52% were newly diagnosed, 41% had a confirmed prior diagnosis in another state, and 7% had an unconfirmed prior diagnosis. Twelve percent of those classified as newly diagnosed for purposes of national HIV surveillance self-reported a prior HIV diagnosis that was unconfirmed. Partner services recipients were more likely than nonrecipients to link to care within 30 days (adjusted risk ratio [RR]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.10; 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.03, 1.18) and 90 days (adjusted RR\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.07; 95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.01, 1.14) of diagnosis.CONCLUSIONS: Integration of HIV surveillance, partner services, and care linkage efforts may improve the accuracy of HIV surveillance data and facilitate timely linkage to care. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Community Health Services#Data Collection#Female#HIV Infections#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Population Surveillance#Regression Analysis#Self Report#Washington#Young Adult'
b"In the United States, groups advocating for and against abortion rights often deploy public health arguments to advance their positions. Recently, these arguments have evolved into state laws that use the government health department infrastructure to increase law enforcement and regulatory activities around abortion. Many major medical and public health associations oppose these new laws because they are not evidence-based and do not protect women's health. Yet state health departments have been defending these laws in court. We propose a 21st-century public health approach to abortion based in an accepted public health framework. Specifically, we apply the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 10 Essential Public Health Services framework to abortion to describe how health departments should engage with abortion. With this public health framework as our guide, we argue that health departments should be facilitating women's ability to obtain an abortion in the state and county where they reside, researching barriers to abortion care in their states and counties, and promoting the use of a scientific evidence base in abortion-related laws, policies, regulations, and implementation of essential services. labels: #Abortion, Legal#Female#Health Policy#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#Pregnancy#Public Health Practice#State Government#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To examine the relation of "shall-issue" laws, in which permits must be issued if requisite criteria are met; "may-issue" laws, which give law enforcement officials wide discretion over whether to issue concealed firearm carry permits or not; and homicide rates.METHODS: We compared homicide rates in shall-issue and may-issue states and total, firearm, nonfirearm, handgun, and long-gun homicide rates in all 50 states during the 25-year period of 1991 to 2015. We included year and state fixed effects and numerous state-level factors in the analysis.RESULTS: Shall-issue laws were significantly associated with 6.5% higher total homicide rates, 8.6% higher firearm homicide rates, and 10.6% higher handgun homicide rates, but were not significantly associated with long-gun or nonfirearm homicide.CONCLUSIONS: Shall-issue laws are associated with significantly higher rates of total, firearm-related, and handgun-related homicide. labels: #Age Distribution#Firearms#Homicide#Humans#United States#Wounds, Gunshot'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of Short Message Service (SMS) reminder messages on antiretroviral and cotrimoxazole prophylaxis adherence among HIV-positive youths as well as the relative effectiveness of SMS with and without a response option.METHODS: Eligible HIV-positive patients aged 15 to 22 years at 2 HIV clinics in Kampala, Uganda, participated in a year-long parallel individual-randomized controlled trial and were assigned in a 1-to-1-to-1 ratio to a weekly SMS message group, weekly SMS message with response option group, or a usual-care control group.RESULTS: We enrolled 332 participants. Electronically measured mean adherence was 67% in the control group, 64% in the 1-way SMS group (95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.77, 1.14), and 61% in the 2-way SMS group (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.75, 1.12) in an intent-to-treat analysis. Results for secondary outcomes and complete-case analysis were similarly statistically insignificant across groups.CONCLUSIONS: Despite previous evidence that interventions using SMS reminders can promote antiretroviral therapy adherence, this study shows that they are not always effective in achieving behavior change. More research is needed to find out for whom, and under what conditions, they can be beneficial.TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT00830622. labels: #AIDS-Related Opportunistic Infections#Adolescent#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-HIV Agents#Female#HIV Seropositivity#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Male#Medication Adherence#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Reminder Systems#Text Messaging#Trimethoprim, Sulfamethoxazole Drug Combination#Uganda#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVES: To examine the trends of new and recurrent sports-related concussions in high-school athletes before and after youth sports traumatic brain injury laws.METHODS: We used an interrupted time-series design and analyzed the concussion data (2005-2016) from High School Reporting Injury Online. We examined the trends of new or recurrent concussion rates among US representative high-school athletes participating in 9 sports across prelaw, immediate-postlaw, and postlaw periods by using general linear models. We defined 1 athlete exposure as attending 1 competition or practice.RESULTS: We included a total of 8043 reported concussions (88.7% new, 11.3% recurrent). The average annual concussion rate was 39.8 per 100\xe2\x80\x89000 athlete exposures. We observed significantly increased trends of reported new and recurrent concussions from the prelaw, through immediate-postlaw, into the postlaw period. However, the recurrent concussion rate showed a significant decline 2.6 years after the laws went into effect. Football exhibited different trends compared with other boys' sports and girls' sports.CONCLUSIONS: Observed trends of increased concussion rates are likely attributable to increased identification and reporting. Additional research is needed to evaluate intended long-term impact of traumatic brain injury laws. labels: #Adolescent#Athletic Injuries#Brain Concussion#Female#Humans#Male#Recurrence#Sex Distribution#Sports#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of a universal school-based depression education program.METHODS: In 2012-2015, we matched 6679 students from 66 secondary schools into pairs by state (Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Michigan, and Oklahoma) and randomized to the Adolescent Depression Awareness Program (ADAP; n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x893681) or to a waitlist control condition (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892998). Trained teachers delivered ADAP as part of the health education curriculum to students aged 14 to 15 years. The primary outcome was depression literacy. Secondary outcomes included mental health stigma and, in a subset of the sample, the receipt of mental health services. Follow-up was at 4 months.RESULTS: ADAP resulted in significantly higher levels of depression literacy among participating students than did waitlist controls, after adjusting for pretest assessment depression literacy (P\xe2\x80\x89<\xe2\x80\x89.001). Overall, ADAP did not significantly affect stigma (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x89.1). After ADAP, students approached 46% of teachers with concerns about themselves or others. Of students who reported the need for depression treatment, 44% received treatment within 4 months of ADAP implementation.CONCLUSIONS: ADAP is an effective public health intervention for improving depression literacy among students.TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov NCT02099305. labels: #Adolescent#Curriculum#Depressive Disorder#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Health Literacy#Humans#School Health Services#Social Stigma#Surveys and Questionnaires#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To assess the prevalence of abortion among population groups and changes in rates between 2008 and 2014.METHODS: We used secondary data from the Abortion Patient Survey, the American Community Survey, and the National Survey of Family Growth to estimate abortion rates. We used information from the Abortion Patient Survey to estimate the lifetime incidence of abortion.RESULTS: Between 2008 and 2014, the abortion rate declined 25%, from 19.4 to 14.6 per 1000 women aged 15 to 44 years. The abortion rate for adolescents aged 15 to 19 years declined 46%, the largest of any group. Abortion rates declined for all racial and ethnic groups but were larger for non-White women than for non-Hispanic White women. Although the abortion rate decreased 26% for women with incomes less than 100% of the federal poverty level, this population had the highest abortion rate of all the groups examined: 36.6. If the 2014 age-specific abortion rates prevail, 24% of women aged 15 to 44 years in that year will have an abortion by age 45 years.CONCLUSIONS: The decline in abortion was not uniform across all population groups. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Continental Population Groups#Educational Status#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Incidence#Income#Marital Status#Pregnancy#Prevalence#United States#Young Adult'
b"As the United States experiences an epidemic of prescription drug abuse, and guidelines on safe practices in prescribing opioids in chronic pain have subsequently emerged from professional organizations and governmental agencies, limited guidance exists for prescribers of opioids to treat pain in patients with cancer or terminal illness. Patients with active cancer or terminal illness often have pain and are frequently prescribed opioids and other controlled substances. Current studies suggest that patients with cancer have similar rates of risk for misuse, abuse, and addiction as the general public. Moreover, palliative care and hospice programs appear poorly prepared for assessing or managing patients with aberrant behaviors or evidence of drug abuse. Further research and professional consensus are needed to help address the challenges associated with misuse, abuse, and addiction in patients with cancer and terminal illness. labels: #Analgesics, Opioid#Attitude of Health Personnel#Chronic Pain#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Neoplasms#Opioid-Related Disorders#Physician's Role#Prescription Drug Misuse#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Risk Management#Taboo#Terminal Care"
b"BACKGROUND: Opioids are frequently used in chronic pain management but are associated with significant morbidity and mortality in some patient populations. An important avenue for identifying complications-including serious or rare complications-is the study of closed malpractice claims. The present study is intended to complement the existing closed claims literature by drawing on claims from a more recent timeframe through a partnership with a large malpractice carrier, the Controlled Risk Insurance Company (CRICO). The goal of this study was to identify patient medical comorbidities and aberrant drug behaviors, as well as prescriber practices associated with patient injury and malpractice claims. Another objective was to identify claims most likely to result in payments and use this information to propose a strategy for reducing medicolegal risk.METHODS: The CRICO Strategies Comparative Benchmarking System is a database of claims drawing from>350,000 malpractice claims from Harvard-affiliated institutions and>400 other academic and community institutions across the United States. This database was queried for closed claims from January 1, 2009, to December 31, 2013, and identified 37 cases concerning noninterventional, outpatient chronic pain management. Each file consisted of a narrative summary, including expert witness testimony, as well as coded fields for patient demographics, medical comorbidities, the alleged damaging event, the alleged injurious outcome, the total financial amount incurred, and more. We performed an analysis using these claim files.RESULTS: The mean patient age was 43.5 years, with men representing 59.5% of cases. Payments were made in 27% of cases, with a median payment of $72,500 and a range of $7500-$687,500. The majority of cases related to degenerative joint disease of the spine and failed back surgery syndrome; no patients in this series received treatment of malignant pain. Approximately half (49%) of cases involved a patient death. The use of long-acting opioids and medical conditions affecting the cardiac and pulmonary systems were more closely associated with death than with other outcomes. The nonpain medical conditions present in this analysis included obesity, obstructive sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, and coronary artery disease. Other claims ranged from alleged addiction to opioids from improper prescribing to alleged abandonment with withdrawal of care. The CRICO analysis suggested that patient behavior contributed to over half of these claims, whereas deficits in clinical judgment contributed to approximately 40% of the claims filed.CONCLUSIONS: Claims related to outpatient medication management in pain medicine are multifactorial, stemming from deficits in clinical judgment by physicians, noncooperation in care by patients, and poor clinical documentation. Minimization of both legal risk and patient harm can be achieved by carefully selecting patients for chronic opioid therapy and documenting compliance and improvement with the treatment plan. Medical comorbidities such as obstructive sleep apnea and the use of long-acting opioids may be particularly dangerous. Continuing physician education on the safest and most effective approaches to manage these medications in everyday practice will lead to both improved legal security and patient safety. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Ambulatory Care#Analgesics, Opioid#Cause of Death#Chronic Pain#Comorbidity#Compensation and Redress#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Insurance, Liability#Liability, Legal#Male#Malpractice#Medical Errors#Middle Aged#Pain Clinics#Pain Measurement#Patient Safety#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Process Assessment (Health Care)#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'Buprenorphine maintenance therapy patients frequently have severe postoperative pain due to buprenorphine-induced hyperalgesia and provider use of opioids with limited efficacy in the presence of buprenorphine. The authors report good-to-excellent pain management in 4 obstetric patients using nonopioid analgesics, regional anesthesia, continuation of buprenorphine, and use of opioids with high \xce\xbc receptor affinity. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Obstetrical#Analgesia, Patient-Controlled#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthetics, Local#Buprenorphine, Naloxone Drug Combination#Cesarean Section, Repeat#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Narcotic Antagonists#Opiate Substitution Treatment#Opioid-Related Disorders#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain Perception#Pain Threshold#Pain, Postoperative#Pregnancy#Sterilization, Tubal#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: The United States is in the midst of an opioid epidemic, and opioid use disorder often begins with a prescription for acute pain. The perioperative period represents an important opportunity to prevent chronic opioid use, and recently there has been a paradigm shift toward implementation of enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols that promote opioid-free and multimodal analgesia. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of an ERAS intervention for colorectal surgery on discharge opioid prescribing practices.METHODS: We conducted a historical-prospective quality improvement study of an ERAS protocol implemented for patients undergoing colorectal surgery with a focus on the opioid-free and multimodal analgesia components of the pathway. We compared patients undergoing colorectal surgery 1 year before implementation (June 15, 2015, to June 14, 2016) and 1 year after implementation (June 15, 2016, to June 14, 2017).RESULTS: Before the ERAS intervention, opioids at discharge were not significantly increasing (1% per month; 95% confidence interval [CI], -1% to 3%; P = .199). Immediately after the ERAS intervention, opioid prescriptions were not significantly lower (13%; 95% CI, -30% to 3%; P = .110). After the intervention, the rate of opioid prescriptions at discharge did not decrease significantly 1% (95% CI, -3% to 1%) compared to the pre-period rate (P = .399). Subgroup analysis showed that in patients with a combination of low discharge pain scores, no preoperative opioid use, and low morphine milligram equivalents consumption before discharge, the rate of discharge opioid prescription was 72% (95% CI, 61%-83%).CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to report discharge opioid prescribing practices in an ERAS setting. Although an ERAS intervention for colorectal surgery led to an increase in opioid-free anesthesia and multimodal analgesia, we did not observe an impact on discharge opioid prescribing practices. The majority of patients were discharged with an opioid prescription, including those with a combination of low discharge pain scores, no preoperative opioid use, and low morphine milligram equivalents consumption before discharge. This observation in the setting of an ERAS pathway that promotes multimodal analgesia suggests that our findings are very likely to also be observed in non-ERAS settings and offers an opportunity to modify opioid prescribing practices on discharge after surgery. For opioid-free anesthesia and multimodal analgesia to influence the opioid epidemic, the dose and quantity of the opioids prescribed should be modified based on the information gathered by in-hospital pain scores and opioid use as well as pain history before admission. labels: #Adult#Aged#Analgesics, Non-Narcotic#Analgesics, Opioid#Colon#Comparative Effectiveness Research#Digestive System Surgical Procedures#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug Prescriptions#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Patient Discharge#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Program Evaluation#Prospective Studies#Quality Improvement#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Rectum#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome"
b'To investigate the effects of matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) gene polymorphisms on the onset of osteomyelitis in Chinese Han population.In all, 80 osteomyelitis patients (case group) and 81 healthy people (control group) were recruited into this case-control study. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method was utilized to examine the genotypes of MMP-1 polymorphisms (-1607 2G/1G and -519A/G) in the 2 groups. Genotype and allele differences between the case and control groups were analyzed by chi-square test. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated to present the association strength between MMP-1 gene polymorphisms and osteomyelitis.Frequencies of -1607 2G/2G genotype between the case and control groups were statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.025). Compared with 1G/1G genotype carriers, the 2G/2G genotype carriers had 1.605 times risk of developing osteomyelitis (OR 2.605, 95% CI 1.116-6.082). Meanwhile, the 2G allele significantly associated with the risk of osteomyelitis (OR 1.735, 95% CI 1.115-2.701). In addition, frequency of -519GG genotype was obviously higher in case group than that in control group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024), and GG genotype related to an increased risk of osteomyelitis (OR 2.792, 95% CI 1.127-6.917). Whereas, the -519G allele may be a susceptible factor for osteomyelitis (OR 1.622, 95% CI 1.038-2.536).The MMP-1 -1607 (2G/1G) and -519 (A/G) polymorphisms may contribute to the onset of osteomyelitis. labels: #Adult#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Matrix Metalloproteinase 1#Odds Ratio#Osteomyelitis#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors'
b'To investigate the diagnostic value of electrocardiographic (ECG) ST-segment in acute inferior myocardial infarction (AIMI) caused by the left circumflex branch (LCX).A total of 240 clinical cases with AIMI in our hospital were retrospectively analyzed. All of them had received percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) within 12\xe2\x80\x8ahours after symptom onset. The clinical features, ECG manifestations, and coronary artery lesion characteristics of the patients were collected.The right coronary artery (RCA) was shown to be the infarct-related artery (IRA) in 177 patients, while LCX was responsible for AIMI in 63 cases. There was no significant difference in the risk factors of coronary heart disease (CHD) (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05 for all) between the 2 groups. ST-segment elevation in lead II, III, and AVF could be found in all patients. Moreover, ST-segment depression in lead I (STD I), ST-segment elevation in lead III (STE III), STE III-STE II, STE AVF, STD AVL, STD AVL-STD I and STE v6 lead ST-segment deviation exhibited significant difference in 2 groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05 for all). The changes of STD I, STE III<STEII, STD AVL<STD I could discriminate between LCX and RCA in AIMI patients with high sensitivity and specificity.ECG may be an effective tool to predict the IRA in patient with AIMI. labels: #Aged#Brugada Syndrome#Bundle-Branch Block#Cardiac Conduction System Disease#Coronary Disease#Coronary Occlusion#Coronary Vessels#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Humans#Inferior Wall Myocardial Infarction#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'The purpose of the study was to investigate the effects of total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) and combined of intravenous and inhaled anesthesia (CIIA) on intraoperative awareness in surgical patients.A total of 678 patients were recruited in the CIIA group, while TIVA group included 566 patients. The clinical characteristics and the occurrence of intraoperative awareness were compared between the groups. Mini-Mental State Examination, Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7, and Patient Health Questionnaire 9 tests were performed to estimate cognitive and psychological functions of the patients. In addition, logistic regression analysis was applied to identify the risk factors for intraoperative awareness in surgical patients.In CIIA group, 3 patients (0.44%) were confirmed with intraoperative awareness, while 11 patients (1.94%) in TIVA group underwent intraoperative awareness. The occurrence rate of intraoperative awareness was significantly higher in VITA group than that in the CIIA group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.029). Awareness classification demonstrated that intraoperative awareness mainly included auditory, tactile, and pain perceptions. Moreover, 4 patients showed distress after operation. Patients with intraoperative awareness exhibited poor performance in cognitive and psychological tests (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001 for all). Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that CIIA (odds ratio [OR]\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.198, 95% confidence interval [CI]\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.047-0.827), age (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.951, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.908-0.997), midazolam application (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.158, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.034-0.736), awareness history (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a10.131, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.206-45.517), and duration of surgery (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.016, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.001-1.032) were significantly associated with intraoperative awareness.Intraoperative awareness can significantly influence the cognitive and psychological functions of surgical patients. CIIA and midazolam application may lower the risk of intraoperative awareness. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia, General#Anesthesia, Inhalation#Anesthesia, Intravenous#Anesthetics, Inhalation#Female#Humans#Intraoperative Awareness#Logistic Models#Male#Methyl Ethers#Middle Aged#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Postoperative Period#Propofol#Stress, Psychological#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: Urinary lithiasis is one of severe postoperative complications in patients undergoing renal transplantation, possibly leading to anuria, urinary infection, or even acute renal failure. Potassium sodium hydrogen citrate (PSHC), a potassium-bearing citrate, is commonly prescribed to prevent stone formation.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 25-year-old man (patient 1) and a 31-year-old man (patient 2) receiving renal transplantation for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) were enrolled in this study. They were given 10\xe2\x80\x8ag/day of PSHC granules from the ninth day to the 17th day after surgery. Patient 1 presented chest tightness, nausea, muscle weakness, and ascending paralysis on the 10th day. Patient 2 presented weak waves on EGG on the 17th day. Moreover, their serum potassium concentrations (SPCs) were 7.67 and 6.05\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, respectively.DIAGNOSIS: Acute hyperkalemia.INTERVENTIONS: Hemo-filtration was performed for patient 1, while patient 2 received 10% calcium gluconate 10\xe2\x80\x8amL, 5% NaHCO3 125\xe2\x80\x8amL, and 10% glucose 500\xe2\x80\x8amL with the addition of 10 units of insulin through intravenous drip.OUTCOMES: Their SPCs dropped to the normal range.LESSONS: Physicians should pay close attentions to potential risks caused by PSHC, and monitor the SPCs to minimize the occurrence of hyperkalemia. labels: #Adult#Diuretics#Humans#Hyperkalemia#Kidney Transplantation#Male#Postoperative Complications#Potassium Citrate#Urolithiasis'
b'Ras association domain protein 10 (RASSF10) was reported to act as a prognostic indicator in various types of cancer and it was proved to be tumor suppressor gene in colorectal cancer (CRC). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of RASSF10 in CRC.Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to detect the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression while enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was taken to measure the protein expression of RASSF10 in tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues from 102 patients with CRC. The relationship between RASSF10 expression level and clinical characteristics of CRC patients was analyzed by chi-squared test. In addition, the association between overall survival of CRC patients and RASSF10 expression was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Cox regression analysis was used to evaluate the prognostic value of RASSF10.The expression level of RASSF10 in tumor tissues was significantly lower than that in the normal tissues both at mRNA and protein levels. Moreover, the expression level was correlated with lymph-node-metastasis and tumor-node-metastasis stage. Kaplan-Meier analysis suggested that patients with high expression level of RASSF10 had a longer overall survival than those with low level (log-rank test, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Besides, RASSF10 might be a potential biomarker in the prognosis of CRC according to cox regression analysis.The down regulated of RASSF10 is found in CRC and it may be an ideal prognostic marker. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Chi-Square Distribution#Colorectal Neoplasms#Down-Regulation#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymphatic Metastasis#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Proportional Hazards Models#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Regression Analysis#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b'RATIONALE: Gustatory otorrhea can lead to cutaneous changes, recurrent infection, and social disruption. We present a case of a late, evolving sialocutaneous fistula to the external auditory canal, managed surgically after failing conservative therapies. This case is unique by late evolution, whereby the symptoms presented with significance 27 years after her operation and 19 years after mild symptoms initially arose.PATIENT CONCERNS: Gustatory, left-sided clear otorrhea with acutely increased volume over 8 months causing social disruption.DIAGNOSES: Sialocutaneous fistula to the external auditory canal.INTERVENTIONS: Superficial parotidectomy and temporoparietal flap for closure of fistula.OUTCOMES: No postoperative complications and resolution of gustatory otorrhea at one-year follow-up.LESSONS: This rare, but important, postoperative complication can present late with evolving symptoms, causing significant social disruption. It can be treated with conservative medical management and several surgical approaches. labels: #Adult#Cutaneous Fistula#Ear Canal#Fascia#Fasciotomy#Female#Humans#Late Onset Disorders#Parotid Gland#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Salivary Gland Fistula#Surgical Flaps#Sweating, Gustatory#Temporal Muscle'
b'INTRODUCTION: Duodenal obstructions caused by congenital anatomic abnormalities are rare in adults. Several patients in whom the duodenal obstruction was caused by a congenital duodenal diaphragm have been described. The duodenal obstruction in the patient presented herein was caused by a transverse septum, which has not been previously reported. A transverse septum is usually observed in the vagina; those involving the digestive tract have been rarely observed.CASE PRESENTATION: We herein report a case involving a 69-year-old woman with a congenital duodenal transverse septum causing partial obstruction. She was admitted to our hospital with a 3-month history of epigastric pain and vomiting. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, iodinated water-soluble contrast imaging, and abdominal computed tomography revealed dilation of the stomach and a neoplasm in the descending part of the duodenum. The patient was suspected to have a tumor in the descending part of the duodenum. Exploratory laparotomy showed a banded duodenal transverse septum at the junction of the second part of the duodenum. The duodenal transverse septum was approximately 2\xe2\x80\x8amm thick and 1\xe2\x80\x8acm wide and divided the duodenal lumen into 2 parts. The duodenal papillae were completely normal and located under the duodenal transverse septum. Histopathological analysis of the transverse septum showed that it was similar to the organizational structure of the duodenal wall.CONCLUSION: The possibility of congenital disease should be considered in older patients with intestinal obstruction, even when imaging studies reveal a duodenal neoplasm. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Aged#Diagnosis, Differential#Duodenal Neoplasms#Duodenal Obstruction#Duodenum#Female#Humans#Vomiting'
b'This study aimed to analyze the correlation of the plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) gene polymorphisms (rs6092 and rs7242) with susceptibility of osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH).This case-control study included 106 ONFH patients and 151 healthy controls. PAI-1 polymorphisms were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with direct sequencing. The genotype distribution of polymorphism in the control group was checked with the status of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE). The \xcf\x87 test was applied to compare the genotypes of polymorphisms between the case and control groups. The association intensity between PAI-1 polymorphisms and ONFH risk was estimated by odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The linkage disequilibrium of PAI-1 polymorphisms was analyzed by Haploview.We found that the genotypes and alleles of PAI-1 rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms had no obvious association with the risk of ONFH (P\xe2\x80\x8a>.05). But the strong linkage disequilibrium existed between rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms and haplotype G-T was significantly associated with the decreased risk of ONFH occurrence (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.666, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.445-0.998).PAI-1 rs6092 and rs7242 polymorphisms are not associated with ONFH development, but haplotype G-T may be a protective factor of ONFH. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Female#Femur Head Necrosis#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b'The aim of the study is to evaluate the use of the tumor border in peripheral non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) as an indicator of pleural invasion.This retrospective study was performed at a single tertiary center. The analysis of 136 patients with peripheral NSCLC included 101 (74.3%) patients with pathologically proven pleural invasion and 35 (25.7%) patients without pleural invasion. The tumor borders on conventional computed tomography (CT) were classified into 5 types on lung window setting: type 1, S or reverse S border with a blunt angle; type 2, sharp angle; type 3, concave border with a blunt angle; type 4, straight border with a perpendicular angle; and type 5, convex border with a perpendicular or blunt angle. In patients with more than 1 tumor border type, the priority was type 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. Blunt angle, pleural contact>3\xe2\x80\x8acm, and adjacent pleural thickening were also recorded for comparison with pleural invasion of peripheral tumors.Tumor border types 2 and 5 significantly differed between patients with and without pleural invasion (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). Patients with and without pleural invasion did not significantly differ in tumor border type 1, tumor border type 3, tumor border type 4, blunt angle, pleural contact>3\xe2\x80\x8acm, or pleural thickening. Tumor border type 5 was a moderate indicator of pleural invasion with positive LR, 5.20; accuracy, 57%; sensitivity, 45%; specificity, 91%; PPV, 94%; and NPV, 36%. Tumor border type 2 was a weak indicator of pleural invasion with positive LR, 0.51; accuracy, 34%; sensitivity, 34%; specificity, 34%; PPV, 60%; and NPV, 15%.Tumor border type 5 has a high PPV and high specificity for predicting pleural invasion by peripheral NSCLC. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Pleura#Pleural Neoplasms#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Primary cardiac angiosarcoma is rare, but it is the most aggressive type of cardiac malignant tumor. When disease is confirmed it is often late in its stage resulting in a poor prognosis.CASE PRESENTATION: We reported a 52-year-old woman who complained of dyspnea for 2 months and dry cough for 10 days. Computed tomography (CT), F-fluorodeoxyglucose (F-FDG), positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT), and transthoracic echocardiography showed a space-occupying lesion 7\xe2\x80\x8acm\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8acm\xe2\x80\x8a\xc3\x97\xe2\x80\x8a5\xe2\x80\x8acm in the right atrium. Malignant cells can be seen in pericardial fluid by pericardiocentesis in local hospital, but not be diagnosed definitely. We conducted CT-guided biopsy of the tumor and observed the necrotic tissues. An exploratory thoracotomy was performed and histological examination confirmed angiosarcoma. Unable to be surgical excision due to infiltrating widely, the patients received chemotherapy with docetaxel for 2 cycles and the disease was progressive. Antiangiogenesis-targeted therapy was combined with chemotherapy for 3 months. Unfortunately, the tumor was still in progress. She died of respiratory failure, survived for 10 months.CONCLUSION: It is difficult to diagnose the primary cardiac angiosarcoma in early stage. Chemotherapy and target therapy are very limited in this case. Surgery remains the preferred treatment for patients with primary cardiac angiosarcoma. More efforts should be carried out on the effective diagnosis and multimodality treatment for this malignant disease. labels: #Cough#Dyspnea#Echocardiography#Fatal Outcome#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Heart Atria#Heart Neoplasms#Hemangiosarcoma#Humans#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Radiopharmaceuticals'
b'This study aimed to explore the genetic association of polymorphisms in caveolin-1 gene (CAV1) with hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-related HCC) susceptibility in a Chinese Han population.The genotyping of polymorphism was conducted using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Whether the genotype distribution of polymorphisms in the healthy controls was consistent with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE) was detected. The genotype and allele frequency difference between the 2 groups was compared by chi-square test. Odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were calculated to show the relative risk of HCC which resulted from genetic variants in CAV1. Moreover, the linkage disequilibrium of CAV1 polymorphisms was analyzed by Haploview.The AG genotype and A allele of rs1049334 showed significantly higher frequency in HCC patients than that of chronic HBV patients and the healthy controls (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05); so their carriage obviously increased the susceptibility to HBV-related HCC, irrespective of the fact whether individuals were infected with hepatitis B virus or not (AG vs GG: OR 1.958, 95% CI 1.050-3.650, OR 1.899, 95% CI 1.034-3.487; A vs G: OR 1.667, 95% CI 1.033-2.689, OR 1.777, 95% CI 1.103-2.863). Additionally, A-G haplotype of rs3807989-rs1049334 showed the protective role for HBV-related HCC (OR 0.102, 95% CI 0.035-0.293; OR 0.135, 95% CI 0.046-0.395).CAV1 rs1049334 polymorphism is significantly associated with the occurrence risk of HBV-related HCC, and the interaction of polymorphisms should not be neglected. labels: #Adult#Alleles#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Case-Control Studies#Caveolin 1#China#Female#Gene Frequency#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Hepatitis B#Hepatitis B virus#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Liver Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors'
b'Early diagnosis is pivotal for prognosis of lung cancer patients. Positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET-CT) is a useful method for human cancer diagnosis. In this study, we aimed to explore the false positive diagnosis of PET-CT in lung cancerIn total, 754 patients diagnosed with lung cancer via PET-CT were retrospectively collected in this study. Histopathological detection served as gold standard. The diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT was defined as the proportion of lung cancer cases confirmed by pathological diagnosis in the study subjects, and the percentages of misdiagnosed cases represented the false positive diagnosis of PET-CT. Chi-square test and logistic regression analysis were used to analyze the association of pathologically confirmed result with clinical characteristics.Among all the patients, 705 cases were pathologically confirmed with lung cancer. The diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT was 93.5%, and the false positive rate was 6.50%. Among the false positive patients, inflammatory pseudotumor (42.86%) and tuberculoma (36.74%) were the most pathological types. In the positive detection group, adenocarcinoma (57.16%) and squamous carcinoma (33.19%) were the main pathological types, and 68.09% of the lung cancer patients were at the advanced stages. The false positive rate were related with age, diabetes, interleukin-6 (IL-6) level, and T-spot test (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).PET-CT could be a good diagnostic method for lung cancer, but the false positive cases could appear. Detection of inflammatory indicators such as IL-6 and T-spot TB test may help improve the diagnostic accuracy of PET-CT. labels: #Chi-Square Distribution#Diagnosis, Differential#Diagnostic Errors#False Positive Reactions#Female#Granuloma, Plasma Cell#Humans#Logistic Models#Lung Diseases#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Retrospective Studies#Tuberculoma#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Paraoxonase 1 (PON1) modulates the oxidative stress and inflammatory response, thus, it might relate to the risk of ankylosing spondylitis (AS). The aim of present study was to discover the correlation of PON1 polymorphisms (rs662 and rs854560) with PON1 activity and AS risk.Around 128 AS patients and 146 healthy controls were recruited in this case-control study. PON1 polymorphisms were genotyped by direct sequencing. Serum PON1 activity was detected and compared by nonparametric test in different genotypes of PON1 polymorphisms. Odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated to present the relative risk for AS.GG genotype and G allele of rs662 polymorphism were closely correlated with enhanced AS risk (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.034, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.318, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.051-5.113; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.032, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.485, 95%CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.033-2.135). PON1 activity was obviously higher in controls than that in AS patients. Significant difference of PON1 activity has been discovered in the different rs662 genotypes (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01). rs662 GG genotype carriers had the lowest PON1 activity, followed by AG carriers and the AA carriers. Besides, no significant relationship existed between rs854560 genotypes and AS risk.PON1 rs662 polymorphism is significantly correlated with increased AS risk via inhibiting PON1 activity. labels: #Alleles#Aryldialkylphosphatase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#China#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk#Spondylitis, Ankylosing#Statistics, Nonparametric'
b'This study aimed to evaluate the effects of psychological intervention and psychological plus drug intervention on smoking cessation among male smokers with single chronic diseases.A total of 509 male smokers were divided into psychological group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a290) and psychological plus drugs (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a219) groups according to their will. The physicians provided free individual counseling and follow-up interviews with brief counseling for all the subjects. In addition to mental intervention, patients in psychological plus drug group also received bupropion hydrochloride or varenicline tartrate to quit smoking. Outcomes were self-reported, regarding the 7-day point prevalence on abstinence rate and continuous abstinence rates at 1-, 3-, and 6-month follow-up period. Data analyses were performed using intention-to-treat analysis and per protocol analysis.With regards to the 3 follow-up time points, 7-day point-prevalence abstinence rate in psychological plus drugs group was all higher than that in the psychological intervention group. Additionally, the 3-month continuous abstinence rate (21.4%) of the 6-month follow-up in the psychological group was not significantly higher than that (26.9%) in the psychological plus drugs group (P\xe2\x80\x8a>.05 for all). Fagerstr\xc3\xb6m test score, stage of quitting smoking, perceived confidence or difficulty in quitting, and chronic disease types were independently correlated with 3-month continuous abstinence in the 6-month follow up (P\xe2\x80\x8a<.05 for all). The results were similar between intentional analysis and protocol analysis.The psychological intervention and psychological plus drugs intervention exerted good effects on smoking cessation in a short time (1 month). Nevertheless, the advantages did not appear during long-time (6 months) follow-up. labels: #Adult#Bupropion#Chronic Disease#Combined Modality Therapy#Counseling#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Intention to Treat Analysis#Male#Middle Aged#Nicotinic Agonists#Smoking#Smoking Cessation#Treatment Outcome#Varenicline'
b'Our purpose was to investigate the possible associations between N-acetyltransferase-2 (NAT2) gene polymorphisms and the risk of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in Chinese Han population.A case-control study was conducted including 98 AML cases and 112 healthy controls. NAT2 gene 2 polymorphisms rs1799930 and rs1799931 were genotyped using direct sequencing. Chi-square test was performed to compare the genotype and allele distribution differences between groups. Odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated to estimate the association between NAT2 gene polymorphisms and AML onset.A remarkable decrease trend of rs1799931 GA genotype was detected in AML patients compared with controls, whereas the ancestral GG genotype frequency increased in cases (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). And the mutant A allele of rs1799931 significantly reduced the risk of AML by 0.585-fold versus the ancestral G allele carriers (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.585, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.361-0.950). But the distributions of rs1799930 genotype and allele were similar between groups (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05).Our findings suggested that NAT2 gene polymorphism rs1799931 was associated with decreased risk of AML and was likely to be a protective factor against AML development. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Alleles#Arylamine N-Acetyltransferase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Young Adult'
b"The incidence of type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing worldwide and affecting the quality of people's life. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of care intervention on body weight and glycemic parameters in obese T2DM patients.One hundred twenty-six obese T2DM cases were randomly divided into 2 groups. Patients in control group received conventional care, while patients in the intervention group received dietary, exercise, and psychology interventions on the basis of conventional care. Twelve months follow-up was performed to compare the changes of body weight and glycemic parameters in the 2 groups.There were 119 patients completing the research, 60 in the intervention group and 59 in control group. The levels of fasting plasma glucose (FPG), 2\xe2\x80\x8ahours postprandial blood glucose (PBG2\xe2\x80\x8ah), hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), and aldose reductase (AR) were all significantly decreased (all, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in intervention group compared with the control group after 12 months follow-up. Moreover, the body weight and BMI (body mass index) were also significantly reduced in intervention group, and the weight loss was significantly higher in intervention group than that in control group during the follow-up.To implement care intervention for obese T2DM patients could strengthen the management of blood glucose, reduce body weight and complications. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aldehyde Reductase#Behavior Therapy#Blood Glucose#Body Mass Index#Body Weight#Combined Modality Therapy#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Diet, Diabetic#Exercise Therapy#Fasting#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Obesity#Postprandial Period#Treatment Outcome#Weight Loss#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) is a rare but highly malignant form of echinococcosis caused by Echinococcus multilocularis. There have been very few reports on multiple-organ AE, especially AE in bones. Here we report 3 rare cases of disseminated multiple-organ AE from western China and its neighboring areas.PATIENT CONCERNS: Patient 1 had back and left hip pain, headache, and weakness in left lower limb, often with minor epilepsy and fluctuation of blood pressure. Lower limbs Babinski sign was positive and muscular tension was above normal range. The second patient had pain in lower limbs and chest discomfort without fever, cough, sputum, chest tightness, or hemoptysis. Patient 3 had masses and pain in the back side of his right shoulder.DIAGNOSES: The patients had been treated for AE multiple times and were positive for serum hydatid antigens. They were diagnosed as multiorgan AE involving liver, spinal cord, and many other organs.INTERVENTIONS: The patients had undergone surgeries to decompress the spinal cord, remove lesions from tissues as required, and were put on albendazole for at least 2 years.OUTCOMES: The patients responded well and AE recurrence has not occurred.LESSONS: All 3 cases experienced multiple recurrences of AE due to missed diagnosis, misdiagnosis, or inappropriate treatment, which resulted in metastatic multiorgan AE. These cases demonstrated the need for more policy attention to battle AE endemic in western China. labels: #Adult#Animals#China#Echinococcosis#Echinococcosis, Hepatic#Echinococcosis, Pulmonary#Echinococcus multilocularis#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Muscular Diseases'
b"RATIONALE: In very rare cases, a primary infected abdominal aortic aneurysm (IAAA) is caused by a species of Brucella. In this report, we report such a case that was successfully treated with a novel approach. To the best of our knowledge, this was the first case occurring in China, in which an infection of the abdominal aortic aneurysm was caused by a Brucella species.PATIENT CONCERNS: The clinical findings included high fever, fatigue, and abdominal pain.DIAGNOSES: The diagnosis was confirmed by computed tomography angiography and by bacteriologic isolation from the patient's blood culture.INTERVENTIONS: The patient was given endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) and Brucella-sensitive antibiotics for 6 weeks.OUTCOMES: During the 10-month follow-up, the patient's clinical course remained uneventful.LESSONS: Our case study supports the premise that endovascular aneurysm repair is an appropriate alternative strategy to treat an infected abdominal aortic aneurysm. Compared with conventional surgical treatment, EVAR with long-term oral antibiotics is a simpler, less traumatic, and more efficient procedure. However, this needs to be further evaluated through long-term follow-up. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal#Brucella#Brucellosis#Combined Modality Therapy#Endovascular Procedures#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Treatment Outcome"
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to identify key genes associated with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by reanalyzing microarray data.METHODS: Three gene expression profile datasets GSE66360, GSE34198, and GSE48060 were downloaded from GEO database. After data preprocessing, genes without heterogeneity across different platforms were subjected to differential expression analysis between the AMI group and the control group using metaDE package. P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05 was used as the cutoff for a differentially expressed gene (DEG). The expression data matrices of DEGs were imported in ReactomeFIViz to construct a gene functional interaction (FI) network. Then, DEGs in each module were subjected to pathway enrichment analysis using DAVID. MiRNAs and transcription factors predicted to regulate target DEGs were identified. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to verify the expression of genes.RESULT: A total of 913 upregulated genes and 1060 downregulated genes were identified in the AMI group. A FI network consists of 21 modules and DEGs in 12 modules were significantly enriched in pathways. The transcription factor-miRNA-gene network contains 2 transcription factors FOXO3 and MYBL2, and 2 miRNAs hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p. RT-PCR validations showed that expression levels of FOXO3 and MYBL2 were significantly increased in AMI, and expression levels of hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p were obviously decreased in AMI.CONCLUSION: A total of 41 DEGs, such as SOCS3, VAPA, and COL5A2, are speculated to have roles in the pathogenesis of AMI; 2 transcription factors FOXO3 and MYBL2, and 2 miRNAs hsa-miR-21-5p and hsa-miR-30c-5p may be involved in the regulation of the expression of these DEGs. labels: #Cell Cycle Proteins#Databases, Genetic#Down-Regulation#Forkhead Box Protein O3#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Association Studies#Humans#MicroRNAs#Myocardial Infarction#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Trans-Activators#Transcription Factors#Up-Regulation'
b'To identify the epidemiology, treatments, outcomes, and risk factors for patients with early- or late-onset invasive candidiasis (EOIC or LOIC) in intensive care units in China.Patients were classified as EOIC (\xe2\x89\xa410 days) or LOIC (>10 days) according to the time from hospital admission to IC onset to identify distinct clinical characteristics.There were 105 EOIC cases and 201 LOIC cases in this study. EOIC was related to more severe clinical conditions at ICU admission or prior to IC. Significantly, more cases of Candida parapsilosis infection were found in patients with LOIC than in those with EOIC. The mortality of EOIC was significantly lower than that for LOIC. Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score at ICI diagnosis in the EOIC group and the interval from ICU admission to ICI occurrence in the LOIC group were identified as risk factors for mortality. Susceptibility to the first-line agent was associated with a lower risk of mortality in the LOIC group.The mortality rate was significantly lower in the EOIC group, and there were more cases of non-albicans infection in the LOIC group. Susceptibility to the first-line agent was an important predictor of mortality in the LOIC group. SOFA score at ICI diagnosis in the EOIC group and interval from ICU admission to ICI occurrence in the LOIC group were identified as risk factors for mortality. labels: #Adult#Aged#Candida#Candidiasis, Invasive#China#Cross Infection#Female#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#Organ Dysfunction Scores#Risk Factors#Time Factors'
b'Essential hypertension (EH) is a complex disease in which physiological, environmental, and genetic factors are involved in its genesis. The genetic variant of the alpha-adducin gene (ADD1) has been described as a risk factor for EH, but with controversial results.The objective of this study was to evaluate the association of ADD1 (Gly460Trp) gene polymorphism with the EH risk in a population from Madeira Island.A case-control study with 1614 individuals of Caucasian origin was performed, including 817 individuals with EH and 797 controls. Cases and controls were matched for sex and age, by frequency-matching method. All participants collected blood for biochemical and genotypic analysis for the Gly460Trp polymorphism. We further investigated which variables were independently associated to EH, and, consequently, analyzed their interactions.In our study, we found a significant association between the ADD1 gene polymorphism and EH (odds ratio 2.484, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.01). This association remained statistically significant after the multivariate analysis (odds ratio 2.548, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.02).The ADD1 Gly460Trp gene polymorphism is significantly and independently associated with EH risk in our population. The knowledge of genetic polymorphisms associated with EH is of paramount importance because it leads to a better understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of this pathology. labels: #Adult#Calmodulin-Binding Proteins#Case-Control Studies#Essential Hypertension#European Continental Ancestry Group#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Genetic#Portugal#Risk Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Prune belly syndrome (PBS) is a rare congenital disorder among adults, and the way for repairing abdominal wall musculature has no unified standard.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We described combining laparoscopic and open technique in an adult male who presented with PBS. Physical examination and radiological imaging verified the case of PBS. The deficiency of abdominal wall musculature was repaired by combining laparoscopic and open technique using a double-deck complex patch.RESULTS: The patient successfully underwent abdominal wall repair by combining laparoscopic and open technique. Postoperative recovery was uneventful, and improvement in symptom was significant in follow-up after 3, 6, 12, and 24 months.CONCLUSIONS: Combining laparoscopic and open technique for repair of deficiency of abdominal wall musculature in PBS was an exploratory way to improve life quality. labels: #Adult#Combined Modality Therapy#Gastroscopy#Hernia, Abdominal#Herniorrhaphy#Humans#Laparoscopy#Male#Prune Belly Syndrome#Treatment Outcome'
b"This study aims to analyze the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).A retrospective audit was conducted examining 147 patients treated for EOC. Surgical treatment with curative intent, with or without NACT and adjuvant chemotherapy, is the treatment approach, which was modified according to the patient's condition. The incidence of VTE with the most commonly used chemotherapy regimen, carboplatin, cisplatin, paclitaxel, docetaxel, and others were evaluated.This study found a 13.6% incidence of VTE in patients undergoing therapy with curative intent for EOC. No association was seen between NACT and VTE compared to VTE after standard treatment: 2/16 (12.5%) vs 5/131 (3.8%) (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.16). Univariate and multivariate analyses also demonstrated that NACT has no risk for VTE with odds ratio (OR)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.89 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.18-4.28) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1. Results did not vary significantly with the type of chemotherapy used. Furthermore, increased incidence of VTE as an incidental finding supports the well-established role of malignancy in VTE occurrence. Univariate and multivariate analyses demonstrated that VTE occurred more frequently in menopausal women than nonmenopausal women (17.9% vs 5.8%) with OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3.55 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.99-12.78) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04 in patients aged \xe2\x89\xa560 (19.3% vs 10%) with OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.15 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.83-5.57) and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.13 but is not statistically significant.We conclude that NACT has no association with VTE and the currently used common chemotherapeutic drug combinations for ovarian cancer carry the minimal risk of thromboembolic events. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#Humans#Incidence#Middle Aged#Neoadjuvant Therapy#Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial#Ovarian Neoplasms#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Venous Thromboembolism"
b'Little is known about hospital readmission for patients with diabetes in China. We aimed to assess the temporal pattern, risk factors, and variations of all-cause readmission among hospitalized patients with diabetes in Tianjin, China, from 2008 to 2013.The Tianjin Basic Medical Insurance Register System database was used to identify discharged patients with diabetes from 2008 to 2013. The influential factors and trends of rehospitalization were analyzed for 30-, 60- and 90-day predicted readmission rates. The Blinder-Oaxaca decomposition was used to explain the readmission variations between 2008 and 2013.The long stay-time at the index hospitalization is a shared risk factor for readmission at 30, 60, and 90 days each year. The 90-day predicted readmission rates were the highest for each year (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). The adjusted readmission rates generally decreased by year (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), except for at the 90-day interval, which decreased in 2010 and slightly increased in 2013 (from 7.47% in 2012 to 7.65% in 2013). If the patients had been readmitted to the hospital in 2013 and the only changes that had occurred since 2008 were observable characteristics, then the readmission rates would have decreased by 0.84%, 0.27%, and 0.18% at 30, 60, and 90 days, respectively. The potential policy changes decreased the readmission rates at 1.35%, 2.01%, and 1.04% for the 3 intervals, respectively.Identifying targeted factors for the decrease in readmission rates may help to control readmission, particularly for long-interval patients. labels: #Aged#China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Discharge#Patient Readmission#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Time Factors'
b"RATIONALE: Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in patients with liver failure. Voriconazole (VRCZ) is recommended as a primary therapeutic agent for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and metabolized in the liver. Now, data are still lacking on the safety and appropriate dosage of VRCZ in patients with liver failure. Here, we report a representative case of invasive pulmonary fungal infection in a patient with liver failure who was treated with low-dose VRCZ.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 21-year-old man, presented with subacute liver failure caused suspected by viral infection, was admitted on June 22, 2014. Liver function was not improved by the treatment of gancicolovir and methylprednisolone. The patient presented with fever, cough, and hyperpyrexia on July 14. Laboratory tests revealed raised neutrophil percentage (82.1%, normal range [NR] 50-70), international normalized ratio (INR) (2.32, NR 0.8-1.2) and levels of serum lactic acid (4.308\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, NR 0.6-2.2), alanine transaminase (165\xe2\x80\x8aU/L,NR 0-40), aspartate transaminase (99\xe2\x80\x8aU/L, NR 8-40), and total bilirubin (654\xe2\x80\x8ammol/L, NR 3.4-20.5). Furthermore, CD4+ T cell, CD8+T cell, and B cell count were low (169, 221, and l8/mL, respectively). Sputum smear microscopy for bacteria was negative, but the direct observation for fungal elements was positive. Thoracic CT scan revealed bilateral pulmonary high-density shadow. Sputum cultures were positive 2 days later with the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus.DIAGNOSES: Therefore, this patient diagnosed with suspected pulmonary a spergillosis.INTERVENTIONS: VRCZ was used on July 15th and its dosage was 400\xe2\x80\x8amg twice on day 1 followed by a maintenance dose of 100\xe2\x80\x8amg twice daily according to drug usage instruction. However, some side effects, such as tremors, lips twitching, and hair loss, occurred. Plasma VRCZ trough concentration was 8.1\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL which was much higher than the recommend level. Therefore, VRCZ dosage was adjusted according to its plasma concentration. VRCZ plasma concentration fluctuated between 2.5 to 4.7\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL when its dosage was 100\xe2\x80\x8amg once daily and side effects disappeared.OUTCOMES: VRCZ was administered for 2 months. This patient's symptoms and liver function were improved. A follow-up CT scan performed at the end of VRCZ therapy indicated that the high-density shadow had diminished.LESSONS: This case demonstrated that low-dose VRCZ (maintenance dose, 100\xe2\x80\x8amg/day) can achieve effective plasma concentration and reduce side effects without liver damage. We believe that VRCZ is safe to be administered in patients with liver failure, but its plasma concentration should be carefully monitored. labels: #Antifungal Agents#Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury#Drug Monitoring#Humans#Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Liver Failure#Male#Treatment Outcome#Voriconazole#Young Adult"
b'This study investigated whether alcohol intoxication (AI) increases the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) by using the Taiwan National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD).Using data from the NHIRD, we assembled 61,229 patients with acute AI and randomly selected 244,916 controls. Each patient was monitored from 2000 to 2011 to identify those who were subsequently diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was conducted to determine the risk of VTE in the patients with AI compared with the controls.The incidence rate of DVT during the 10 years follow-up period was 9.36 per 10,000 person-years and 2.07 per 10,000 person-years in the AI and non-AI cohorts, respectively. Moreover, the incidence rate of PE was 4 per 10,000 person-years in the AI cohort and 0.93 in the non-AI cohort. After adjustment for age, sex, and comorbidities, the risks of DVT and PE were 3.40 [95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.83-4.08] and 3.53 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.69-4.65)-fold higher in the AI cohort than in the non-AI cohort.An increased incidence of VTE was observed among patients with AI. Therefore, physicians should carefully estimate the risk of VTE in patients with AI. labels: #Adult#Alcoholic Intoxication#Cohort Studies#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Proportional Hazards Models#Pulmonary Embolism#Regression Analysis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Taiwan#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to explore the effects of action observation therapy on motor function of upper extremity, activities of daily living, and motion evoked potential in cerebral infarction patients.METHOD: Cerebral infarction survivors were randomly assigned to an experimental group (28 patients) or a control group (25 patients). The conventional rehabilitation treatments were applied in both groups, but the experimental group received an additional action observation therapy for 8 weeks (6 times per week, 20 minutes per time). Fugl-Meyer assessment (FMA), Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT), Modified Barthel Index (MBI), and motor evoked potential (MEP) were used to evaluate the upper limb movement function and daily life activity.RESULTS: There were no significant differences between experiment and control group in the indexes, including FMA, WMFT, and MBI scores, before the intervention. However, after 8 weeks treatments, these indexes were improved significantly. MEP latency and center-motion conduction time (CMCT) decreased from 23.82\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.16 and 11.15\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.68 to 22.69\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a2.11 and 10.12\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a1.46\xe2\x80\x8ams. MEP amplitude increased from 0.61\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.22 to 1.25\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.38\xe2\x80\x8amV. A remarkable relationship between the evaluations indexes of MEP and FMA was found.CONCLUSIONS: Combination of motion observation and traditional upper limb rehabilitation treatment technology can significantly elevate the movement function of cerebral infarction patients in subacute seizure phase with upper limb dysfunction, which expanded the application range of motion observation therapy and provided an effective therapy strategy for upper extremities hemiplegia in stroke patients. labels: #Activities of Daily Living#Aged#Cerebral Infarction#Evoked Potentials, Motor#Exercise Therapy#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Movement#Observation#Range of Motion, Articular#Recovery of Function#Stroke Rehabilitation#Treatment Outcome#Upper Extremity'
b"RATIONALE: Pelvic malunion is a rare complication and is technically challenging to correct owing to the complex three-dimensional (3D) geometry of the pelvic girdle. Hence, precise preoperative planning is required to ensure appropriate correction. Reconstructive surgery is generally a 2- or 3-stage procedure, with transiliac osteotomy serving as an alternative to address limb length discrepancy.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 38-year-old female patient with a Mears type IV pelvic malunion with previous failed reconstructive surgery was admitted to our department due to progressive immobilization, increasing pain especially at the posterior pelvic arch and a leg length discrepancy. The leg discrepancy was approximately 4 cm and rotation of the right hip joint was associated with pain.DIAGNOSIS: Radiography and computer tomography (CT) revealed a hypertrophic malunion at the site of the previous posterior osteotomy (Mears type IV) involving the anterior and middle column, according to the 3-column concept, as well as malunion of the left anterior arch (Mears type IV).INTERVENTIONS: The surgery was planned virtually via 3D reconstruction, using the patient's CT, and subsequently performed via transiliac osteotomy and symphysiotomy. Finite element method (FEM) was used to plan the osteotomy and osteosynthesis as to include an estimation of the risk of implant failure.OUTCOMES: There was not incidence of neurological injury or infection, and the remaining leg length discrepancy was \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a2 cm. The patient recovered independent, pain free, mobility. Virtual 3D planning provided a more precise measurement of correction parameters than radiographic-based measurements. FEM analysis identified the highest risk for implant failure at the symphyseal plate osteosynthesis and the parasymphyseal screws. No implant failure was observed.LESSONS: Transiliac osteotomy, with additional osteotomy or symphysiotomy, was a suitable surgical procedure for the correction of pelvic malunion and provided adequate correction of leg length discrepancy. Virtual 3D planning enabled precise determination of correction parameters, with FEM analysis providing an appropriate method to predict areas of implant failure. labels: #Adult#Bone Plates#Female#Finite Element Analysis#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Malunited#Humans#Ilium#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Leg Length Inequality#Osteotomy#Pelvic Bones#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Reoperation#Surgery, Computer-Assisted#Treatment Outcome"
b'Postsurgery infection is a common complication after laparoscopic radical cystectomy (LRC) followed by urinary diversion. White blood cell (WBC) values and C-reactive protein (CRP) are routinely used as markers for infection, but lack of specificity and their elevation is often delayed in clinically significant events. In this study, we aimed to investigate the value of procalcitonin (PCT) kinetics in assisting early diagnosis of infection in patients undergoing LRC.The patients\' medical records between May 2013 and May 2016 were reviewed retrospectively. WBC, CRP, and PCT plasma levels as well as clinical symptoms were registered in 306 patients preoperatively (day 0), and 5 consecutive days postoperatively. Based on microbiological and clinical data, patients were grouped into noninfection- (NI-) and infection- (I-) groups. The day of new onset infection was observed were defined as day t0 and the day after that as day t1. For the NI-group, the day on which PCT was at the peak was defined as day t1 and the previous day as day t0.Of the 306 patients, 46 (15.03%) have proven infection. PCT levels were analogous at day t0:NI-group [median (interquartile range)]: 0.69(1.99) vs I-group [median (interquartile range)]: 1.0[0.75], P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.1. PCT levels were significantly increased at day t1 in the I-group[median (interquartile range)]:2.9(1.3) vs NI-group[median (interquartile range)]: 1.3(1.5), P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01. The area under the curve for the prediction of infection was 0.72 [95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.63-0.81] for the absolute value of PCT; and for delta PCT:0.88 (95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.81-0.94), P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01. The optimal cut-off value was 0.79 ng/mL with the highest Youden index of 0.80 for delta-PCT to indicate infection. Neither absolute values nor changes in CRP, or WBC could predict infection better. The "delta" was considered as the changes in the absolute values (subtracting day t0 from day t1) of PCT, CRP, and WBC.This study suggest that early elevation of PCT within the first 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours of new onset infection, interpreted with clinical results, appears to be a promising indicator for the diagnosis of infections following LRC. labels: #Aged#Area Under Curve#Biomarkers#C-Reactive Protein#Calcitonin#Cystectomy#Early Diagnosis#Female#Humans#Kinetics#Laparoscopy#Leukocyte Count#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Predictive Value of Tests#Preoperative Period#Prospective Studies#Reference Values#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity#Urinary Diversion#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'The aim of this article is to investigate the expression of E-cadherin (E-cad) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) of Han and Uygur women patients in western China, and their relationship with clinical features of TNBC.Totally, 172 cases of Han TNBC patients and 79 cases of Uighur TNBC patients were enrolled. The expressions of E-cad and VEGF were detected with immunohistochemistry. The correlation of E-cad and VEGF expression with lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, and histological grade were analyzed. The 5-year disease-free survival rate of the 2 groups was also evaluated.There was no significant difference in the 5-year disease-free survival rate (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and the expression of E-cad between the 2 groups. The positive rate of VEGF in Han was significantly lower than that in Uygur (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The expression of E-cad was negatively correlated with lymph node metastasis, TNM stage, and histological grade (-1\xe2\x89\xa4r\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a1, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). However, the expression of VEGF was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis and TNM staging (0\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8ar\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a1, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.05), but not with histological grading.The expression of E-cad and VEGF and their relationship with clinical features of TNBC suggest that Uygur TNBC patients might have different prognostic factors as compared with Han patients. labels: #Adult#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Biomarkers, Tumor#Cadherins#China#Disease-Free Survival#Ethnic Groups#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Immunohistochemistry#Lymphatic Metastasis#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Survival Rate#Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'Paclitaxel has been shown to have clinical activity in the treatment of small cell lung cancer (SCLC). However, its role as third-line chemotherapy for SCLC after both etoposide- and camptothecin-based regimens has not been clarified.All patients with refractory SCLC who were treated with paclitaxel-based regimen as third-line chemotherapy between 2005 and 2011 in Seoul National University Bundang Hospital were reviewed retrospectively. Forty patients previously treated with both etoposide- and camptothecin-based chemotherapy were included.The median age of the enrolled patients was 67 years (range, 35-86 years). Most patients (77.5%) received cisplatin plus etoposide as first-line therapy, and camptothecins such as irinotecan or topotecan as second-line therapy. Of 34 patients with measurable lesions, 8 patients (23.5%) achieved partial response and 9 (26.5%) had stable disease. The median progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were 2.5 and 5.9 months, respectively. Predictive factors for OS were performance status (PS) (PS<2 vs \xe2\x89\xa52; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001), the presence of liver metastasis (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), and number of metastatic sites (<3 vs \xe2\x89\xa53; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.047) in univariate analysis. PS and liver metastasis also remained statistically significant in multivariate analysis. Grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity was 20% for neutropenia, and 10% for thrombocytopenia. Other common non-hematological toxicities were peripheral neuropathy and mild liver enzyme elevation.Paclitaxel-based chemotherapy showed modest activity in SCLC patients refractory to both etoposide- and camptothecin-based chemotherapy. PS and presence of liver metastasis were predictive of survival after paclitaxel chemotherapy. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Camptothecin#Cisplatin#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Etoposide#Female#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Metastasis#Paclitaxel#Retrospective Studies#Small Cell Lung Carcinoma#Treatment Outcome'
b'The results of published studies about the relationships between folate intake and risk of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remained inconsistent. Hence, a comprehensive and dose-response meta-analysis was performed to clarify the association between folate intake and HNSCC risk.The electric searches of Pubmed, Medline, and EMBASE databases were performed to identify the studies examining the relationship between folate intake and HNSCC risk on April 5, 2017. According to the inclusion criteria, finally 9 studies were included in this meta-analysis. The pooled odds ratios (ORs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were used to evaluate the strength of associations. Dose-response analysis was conducted to quantitate the relationship between dietary folate intake and HNSCC risk.The pooled OR for assessing the risk of HNSCC and folate intake in the highest level versus lowest level was 0.505 (95% CI 0.387-0.623). The linearity model of dose-response analysis indicated that with increased 100\xe2\x80\x8a\xce\xbcg/d folate intake, the risk of HNSCC decreased 4.3% degree (OR 0.957, 95% CI 0.935-0.980).These results indicate that folate is a protective nutrient against HNSCC carcinogenesis. labels: #Adult#Aged#Carcinoma, Squamous Cell#Diet#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Eating#Female#Folic Acid#Folic Acid Deficiency#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Observational Studies as Topic#Odds Ratio#Risk Factors'
b'Several studies have pointed out a significant association between rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and accelerated atherosclerosis. At the best of our knowledge, no such study has been carried out in a large Italian series and, in this study, we aimed to investigate the prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of cardiovascular events (CVEs), in patients consecutively admitted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 to Rheumatology Units throughout the whole Italy.Centers members of GIRRCS (Gruppo Italiano di Ricerca in Reumatologia Clinica e Sperimentale) were invited to enrol patients consecutively admitted from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 and satisfying American College of Rheumatology/ European League Against Rheumatism criteria for RA and to investigate each of them for: traditional cardiovascular risk factors: sex, age, smoking habit, total cholesterol, triglycerides, glycaemia, high blood pressure, metabolic syndrome (MS), type 2 diabetes (T2D); RA features: disease duration as assessed from the first symptom, disease activity as evaluated by DAS28, radiographic damage as assessed by hands and feet x-ray, and previous joint surgery; prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of CVEs.Eight centers participated to the study. From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, the 1176 patients, who had been investigated for all the items, were enrolled in the study. They were mostly women (80.52%), with a median age of 60 years (range, 18-91 years), a median disease duration of 12 years (range, 0.8-25 years), seropositive in 69.21%. Nineteen percent were in remission; 17.51% presented low disease activity; 39.45% moderate disease activity; 22.61% high disease activity.Eighty-two patients (6.9%) had a history for CVEs (58 myocardial infarction, 38 heart failure, 10 ischemic transitory attack, and 7 stroke). This figure appears to be lower than that reported worldwide (8.5%). After excluding the 82 patients with a history of CV events, subclinical atherosclerosis was detected in 16% of our patients, (176 patients), a figure lower than that reported worldwide (32.7%) and in previous Italian studies.This is the first Italian multicenter study on subclinical and clinical atherosclerosis in patients with RA. We pointed out a low prevalence of both subclinical atherosclerosis and history of CV events. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthritis, Rheumatoid#Atherosclerosis#Blood Glucose#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cholesterol#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Italy#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Triglycerides#Young Adult'
b'The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between falls and beat-to-beat blood pressure (BP) variability.Continuous noninvasive BP measurement is as accurate as invasive techniques. We evaluated beat-to-beat supine and standing BP variability (BPV) using time and frequency domain analysis from noninvasive continuous BP recordings.A total of 1218 older adults were selected. Continuous BP recordings obtained were analyzed to determine standard deviation (SD) and root mean square of real variability (RMSRV) for time domain BPV and fast-Fourier transform low frequency (LF), high frequency (HF), total power spectral density (PSD), and LF:HF ratio for frequency domain BPV.Comparisons were performed between 256 (21%) individuals with at least 1 fall in the past 12 months and nonfallers. Fallers were significantly older (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.007), more likely to be female (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.006), and required a longer time to complete the Timed-Up and Go test (TUG) and frailty walk test (P\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Standing systolic BPV (SBPV) was significantly lower in fallers compared to nonfallers (SBPV-SD, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.016; SBPV-RMSRV, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.033; SBPV-LF, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003; SBPV-total PSD, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). Nonfallers had significantly higher supine to standing ratio (SSR) for SBPV-SD, SBPV-RMSRV, and SBPV-total PSD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.017, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.013, and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.009). In multivariate analyses, standing BPV remained significantly lower in fallers compared to nonfallers after adjustment for age, sex, diabetes, frailty walk, and supine systolic BP. The reduction in frequency-domain SSR among fallers was attenuated by supine systolic BP, TUG, and frailty walk.In conclusion, reduced beat-to-beat BPV while standing is independently associated with increased risk of falls. Changes between supine and standing BPV are confounded by supine BP and walking speed. labels: #Accidental Falls#Aged#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory#Cohort Studies#Female#Fourier Analysis#Heart Rate#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Malaysia#Male#Middle Aged#Posture#Risk Factors#Supine Position'
b'The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between Paraoxonase-1 (PON1) gene rs662, rs854555 polymorphisms and osteonecrosis of the femoral head (ONFH) in Han population, northern China.Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism was used to determine genotypes of PON1 polymorphisms in 84 patients with ONFH and 96 healthy persons. \xcf\x87 test was used to compare distribution differences of genotype, allele, and haplotype between the case and control groups. The odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated to reveal the effects of PON1 polymorphisms on risk of ONFH, and the results were adjusted using logistic regression analysis. The linkage disequilibrium and haplotype analysis were performed with haploview software.That people carrying AA genotype of rs662 were easier to be attacked by ONFH than GG genotype carriers (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.53, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.05-6.07, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). Meanwhile, the frequency of A allele in the case group was significantly higher than the controls and it was a risk factor for ONFH (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.56, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.03-2.38, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.038). The A-A haplotype frequency of rs854555-rs662 in PON1 was significantly correlated to the increased susceptibility to ONFH (OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a2.74, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.28-5.84).The rs662 polymorphism in PON1 may be associated with ONFH susceptibility, but not rs854555 in Han population, northern China. Additionally, haplotype is also a nonignorable risk factor. labels: #Adult#Aged#Alleles#Aryldialkylphosphatase#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#Chi-Square Distribution#China#Female#Femur Head Necrosis#Gene Frequency#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Linkage Disequilibrium#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Odds Ratio#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length#Risk Factors'
b'We aimed to investigate the prognostic value of postpathological characters in nonmetastatic breast cancer (NMBC) patients who received preoperative radiotherapy (PRT) followed by mastectomy (MAST).We conducted retrospective analyses using the data collected from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program of the National Cancer Institute. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify prognostic factors. Disease-specific survival was calculated by the Kaplan-Meier curve and validated by log rank test. The discriminations of independent risk factors and staging systems were compared by the area under receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC) and validated by Harrell concordance index (bootstrapping algorithm). Akaike information criterion (AIC) was applied to compare the difference of model.One thousand three hundred fifty NMBC patients who had received PRT followed by MAST from 1988 to 2013 were included in the study. We found the metastatic lymph node ratio (mLNR) staging was a superior indicator than pN staging. Thus, we proposed a T-lymph node ratio (T-NR) staging system with simplified-T categories (T0-3 and T4) and the mLNR staging. The novel T-NR staging system provided larger AUC (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.024, .008, respectively) and the smaller AIC (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) value than American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system.The novel T-NR staging system performed more accurate survival prediction and better model fitness for NMBC patients who receive PRT followed by MAST, it may provide a wide applicability in clinical decision-making. labels: #Algorithms#Breast Neoplasms#Clinical Decision-Making#Female#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Lymph Nodes#Lymphatic Metastasis#Mastectomy#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#ROC Curve#Radiotherapy, Adjuvant#Retrospective Studies#SEER Program#Treatment Outcome'
b'Few reports have described the significance of viral respiratory infections (VRIs) in exacerbation of asthma in adult patients. The aim of this study was to elucidate the profiles of VRIs in adult patients with asthma along with their molecular epidemiology.A cross-sectional observational study was conducted at Kyorin University Hospital from August 2012 to May 2015. To identify respiratory pathogens in inpatients and outpatients suffering from asthma attacks, RT-PCR/sequencing/phylogenetic analysis methods were applied alongside conventional microbiological methods. Phylogenetic and pairwise distance analyses of 10 viruses were performed.A total of 106 asthma attack patients enrolled in this study in both inpatient (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a49) and outpatient (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a57) settings. The total 106 respiratory samples were obtained from nasopharyngeal swab (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a68) or sputum (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a38). Among these, patients with virus alone (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a39), virus and bacterial (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5), and bacterial alone (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5) were identified. The ratio of virus-positive patients in inpatient or outpatient to the total cases were 31.1% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) and 10.4% (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a11), respectively. The frequency of virus-positive patients was significantly higher in inpatients (75.3%, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a33) than in outpatients (19.3%, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a11). Major VRIs included human rhinovirus (HRV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a24), human metapneumovirus (hMPV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a9), influenza virus (Inf-V) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a8), and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3) infections with seasonal variations. HRV-A and HRV-C were the most commonly detected viruses, with wide genetic divergence on phylogenetic analysis.Asthmatic exacerbations in adults are highly associated with VRIs such as HRV-A or HRV-C, hMPV, RSV, and Inf-V infections with seasonal variations and genetic divergence, but similar frequencies of VRIs occurred in asthma attack patients throughout the seasons. labels: #Adult#Aged#Asthma#Bacterial Infections#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Genotype#Humans#Inpatients#Japan#Male#Metapneumovirus#Middle Aged#Nasopharynx#Orthomyxoviridae#Outpatients#Phylogeny#RNA Viruses#Respiratory Syncytial Viruses#Respiratory Tract Infections#Rhinovirus#Seasons#Sputum#Virus Diseases'
b'BACKGROUND: Several previous studies were carried out on the association between xeroderma pigmentosum group G (XPG) gene polymorphisms (including rs873601 G>A, rs2094258 C>T, rs2296147 T>C, and rs751402 C>T) and the risk of gastric cancer in Chinese populations. However, their conclusions were not consistent. Therefore, this meta-analysis was performed by us to investigate the association between the 4 potentially functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of XPG gene and gastric cancer risk.METHODS: The eligible literatures were identified through PubMed, Embase, Ovid MEDLINE, Web of Science, CNKI, and Wan fang databases up to July 2017. Finally, 5 studies for rs873601, 7 studies for rs2094258, 4 studies for rs2296147, and 8 studies for rs751402 were used for the current meta-analysis.RESULTS: Of the 4 included SNPs, only rs751402 was showed to be associated with the risk of gastric cancer [C vs T, odds ratio (OR)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.16, 95% confidence interval (CI)\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.04-1.29; CC\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aCT vs TT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.23, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.00-1.52; CC vs CT\xe2\x80\x8a+\xe2\x80\x8aTT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.15, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.05-1.27; CC vs TT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.35, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.06-1.72; CC vs CT, OR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.13, 95% CI\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.02-1.25].CONCLUSION: The current meta-analysis demonstrated that the XPG gene polymorphism rs751402 was associated with increased susceptibility to gastric cancer in Chinese populations. However, studies with a larger number of subjects among different ethnic groups are needed to further validate the results. labels: #Adult#Aged#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Case-Control Studies#China#DNA-Binding Proteins#Endonucleases#Female#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nuclear Proteins#Odds Ratio#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Stomach Neoplasms#Transcription Factors'
b'RATIONALE: Pravastatin has emerged for prevention and treatment of preeclampsia; no reports are available on pravastatin and HELLP (hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets) syndrome.PATIENT CONCERNS: The first pregnancy necessitated termination of pregnancy at gestational age (GA) 20+5 for HELLP. Intrauterine fetal death at GA 22+5 occurred in the second pregnancy, whilst on temporizing management of HELLP.DIAGNOSES: Severe, recurrent early-onset HELLP syndrome.INTERVENTIONS: In her fourth pregnancy, pravastatin was commenced at GA 13.OUTCOMES: The course of pregnancy was uncomplicated, and a healthy, appropriate for gestational age fetus was delivered at term.LESSONS: Pravastatin may be effective in prevention of HELLP. The hepatic uptake may be of particular advantage. labels: #Adult#Female#Gestational Age#HELLP Syndrome#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Live Birth#Pravastatin#Pregnancy#Recurrence#Term Birth#Treatment Outcome'
b'In spinal fusion surgery, total blood loss (TBL) is composed of visible blood loss from the surgical field and wound drainage, and hidden blood loss (HBL). Until now, no published studies exist reporting the effect of topical use of tranexamic acid (tTXA) on HBL in patients undergoing posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. This study aimed to explore the effect of tTXA on HBL during primary posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. Between September 2014 and September 2016, 100 adult patients (age\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a18 years) with lumbar disc herniation or lumbar spinal stenosis undergoing primary posterior lumbar instrumented spinal fusions at 1 institution were divided into tTXA and control groups. The primary outcome was HBL. Secondary outcomes include TBL, intraoperative blood loss (IBL), postoperative blood loss (PBL), hemoglobin (HGB) levels on preoperative (Pre-op) and postoperatively (days 1-3, POD1, POD2, POD3, respectively), and amount of allogeneic blood transfusion. Complications occurring perioperatively until hospitalization discharge were also collected. In the tTXA group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a50 patients), wound surface was soaked with TXA (1\xe2\x80\x8ag in 100\xe2\x80\x8amL saline solution) for 5\xe2\x80\x8aminutes before wound closure. For the control group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a50 patients), wound surface was soaked with the same volume of normal saline. There were no significant differences in demographics, surgical traits between the 2 groups. There were no significant differences in IBL or perioperative blood transfusion requirements between the 2 groups. However, in the tTXA group, TBL, PBL, and HBL were significantly lower than those in the control group (550 \xc2\xb1 268 vs 833\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a298\xe2\x80\x8amL, 53.5\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a43.9 vs 136.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a87.9\xe2\x80\x8amL, 356.7\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a254.8 vs 501.1\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a216.9\xe2\x80\x8amL, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). HGB levels were significantly higher in the tTXA group (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) on POD1 and had a slower decline on POD2 and POD3 than the control group. No complications associated with TXA were observed. From these data, we conclude that tTXA can effectively reduce HBL, without significant complications in adult patients undergoing posterior lumbar spinal fusion surgery. labels: #Administration, Topical#Adult#Aged#Antifibrinolytic Agents#Blood Loss, Surgical#Blood Transfusion#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Lumbar Vertebrae#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Hemorrhage#Retrospective Studies#Spinal Fusion#Tranexamic Acid#Treatment Outcome'
b'This study aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of celecoxib 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours preoperative, 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour preoperative, and 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperative administration in patients with arthroscopic knee surgery (AKS).In all, 206 patients who underwent AKS were consecutively recruited and randomized into 3 groups: (1) early preoperative analgesia group (EPEA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 24\xe2\x80\x8ahours preoperative administration; (2) preoperative analgesia group (PEA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour preoperative administration; (3) postoperative analgesia group (POA), celecoxib 400\xe2\x80\x8amg 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperative administration. Pain visual analog scale (VAS) scores (at rest and at 90 flexion) and patient global assessment (PGA) score were evaluated before and after operation, and also pethidine consumption and adverse events (AEs).The pain-rest VAS score, percentage of patients with moderate-severe pain at rest, and PGA score in the EPEA and PEA groups were decreased compared with POA group at 8 and 12\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperation. Besides, pain-flexion to 90 VAS score in EPEA and PEA groups were also reduced compared with POA group at 8\xe2\x80\x8ahours postsurgery. Interestingly, the percentage of patients with moderate-severe pain at 90 flexion at 8\xe2\x80\x8ahours postsurgery in PEA group was fewer compared with POA group, whereas at 4\xe2\x80\x8ahours postoperation it was reduced in EPEA group compared with PEA and POA groups. As to consumption of pethidine, it was numerically decreased in EPEA and PEA groups compared with POA group. No difference between each 2 groups was found in AEs.Celecoxib was effective and safe as pre-emptive analgesia in AKS, and 1\xe2\x80\x8ahour administration before operation might be an optimal choice. labels: #Adult#Analgesia#Arthroscopy#Celecoxib#Cyclooxygenase 2 Inhibitors#Double-Blind Method#Drug Administration Schedule#Female#Humans#Knee Joint#Male#Pain Management#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Preoperative Period#Prospective Studies#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'PROPOSE: There are embryological origins, anatomical, histological, genetic, and immunological differences between right-sided colon cancer (RCC) and left-sided colon cancer (LCC). Many studies have sought to determine the survival and prognosis according to tumor location. This study aimed to analyze outcomes between RCC and LCC.MATERIAL AND METHOD: Between January 2000 and December 2012, data on 414 patients who underwent curative resection for RCC and LCC were retrieved from a retrospective database. Propensity score matching (1:1) was performed and RCC was identified in 207 and LCC in 207 patients.RESULTS: On average, RCC exhibited a more advanced N stage, increased tumor size, more frequently poorly differentiated tumors, more harvested lymph nodes, and more positivity of lymphovascular invasion than LCC. With a median follow-up of 66.7 months, the 5-year overall survival (OS) rates for RCC and LCC were 82.1% and 88.7%, respectively, (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rates were 81.4% (RCC) and 88.3% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). In stage III cancers, the DFS rates were 61.1% (RCC) and 81.9% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05), while the OS rates were 65.6% (RCC) and 78.6% (LCC; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.056).CONCLUSION: On the basis of present data, LCC exhibited better survival outcomes than RCC after curative resection. Especially in stage III, LCC showed better oncologic outcomes. Proper specialized treatment related to the location of colon cancer is needed. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Colectomy#Colon#Colonic Neoplasms#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Prognosis#Propensity Score#Retrospective Studies#Survival Rate#Treatment Outcome'
b'The 2016 American Thoracic Society and Infectious Diseases Society of America (ATS/IDSA) guidelines removed the concept of healthcare-associated pneumonia (HCAP). We examined whether the 2016\xe2\x80\x8aATS/IDSA guidelines are applicable in Korea.We conducted a retrospective, observational study of pneumonia patients who were hospitalized at a tertiary teaching hospital from March 2012 to February 2014. Identified pathogens that were not susceptible to \xce\xb2-lactams, macrolides, and fluoroquinolones were defined as community-acquired pneumonia drug-resistant pathogens (CAP-DRPs). We analyzed the risk factors for 28-day mortality and the occurrence rate of CAP-DRPs.Of the 1046 patients, 399 were classified with HCAP and 647 with CAP. HCAP patients were older and had more comorbidities than CAP patients. Initial pneumonia severity index (PSI) was higher in patients with HCAP than with CAP. HCAP was associated with not only an increased rate of CAP-DRPs (HCAP, 19.8%; CAP, 4.0%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) but also an increased rate of inappropriate initial antibiotic therapy (IIAT) (HCAP, 16.8%; CAP, 4.6%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). HCAP was also associated with an increased 28-day mortality rate compared with CAP (HCAP, 14.5%; CAP, 6.3%; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). In a multivariable analysis, PSI was an independent risk factor for 28-day mortality in HCAP patients (odds ratio 1.02, 95% confidence interval 1.01-1.04). CAP-DRPs and IIAT were not associated with mortality.Patients with HCAP revealed higher rates of CAP-DRPs, IIAT, and mortality than patients with CAP. However, CAP-DRPs and IIAT were not associated with mortality. PSI was the main predictive factor for 28-day mortality in patients with HCAP. labels: #Aged#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Community-Acquired Infections#Cross Infection#Drug Resistance, Bacterial#Female#Hospital Mortality#Hospitals, Teaching#Humans#Inappropriate Prescribing#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Pneumonia#Prognosis#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Tertiary Care Centers'
b'RATIONALE: Intraluminal migration of a retained surgical sponge causing intestinal obstruction and fistula is extremely rare occurrence.PATIENT CONCERNS: A case of a 35-year-old male, who complaining a diffuse abdominal pain beginning three days earlier. He also complained of occasional vomiting, nonspecific abdominal pain, and an unintentional 15\xe2\x80\x8akg weight loss during the past 2 years. However, there were no clear findings in previous laboratory work. He had received an open appendectomy approximately 4 years earlier.DIAGNOSES: Retained surgical sponge.INTERVENTIONS: A contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen showed a clear invagination of the small intestine. However, intraoperatively, we could not find an intestinal segment with intussusception. After the adhesive intestine was detached, a jejunal-ileal cross-linked fistula was found. More surprisingly, a retained surgical sponge was found inside the ileal fistula when the cross-linked fistula was detached.OUTCOMES: The patient was discharged 7 days after surgery.LESSONS: This is the first report showing an atypical image of a complete transmural migration of a retained surgical sponge mimicking intussusception. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Adult#Appendectomy#Diagnosis, Differential#Foreign Bodies#Foreign-Body Migration#Humans#Ileal Diseases#Ileum#Intestinal Fistula#Intestinal Obstruction#Intussusception#Male#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b"Nonspecific low back pain (LBP) is a common musculoskeletal problem that is intensified during physical activity. Patients with LBP have been reported to change their abdominal muscle activity during walking; however, the effects of pain intensity, disability level, and fear-avoidance belief on this relationship have not been evaluated. Thus, we compared abdominal muscle activity in patients with LBP and asymptomatic controls, and assessed the impact of pain intensity, disability level, and fear-avoidance belief.Thirty patients with LBP divided into groups reporting low (LLBP) and high-pain intensity low back pain (HLBP), and 15 participants without LBP were recruited. LBP patients' self-reported pain intensity, disability, and fear-avoidance belief were recorded. To examine abdominal muscle activity (rectus abdominis [RA], internal [IO], and external oblique [EO] muscles) during walking, all subjects walked at a self-selected speed. Abdominal muscle activity (RA, IO, and EO) was compared among groups (LLBP, HLBP, and controls) in different phases of walking (double support vs swing). Relationships between abdominal muscle activity and clinical measures (pain intensity, disability, fear-avoidance belief) were analyzed using partial correlation analysis.Right IO muscle activity during walking was significantly decreased in LLBP and HLBP compared with controls in certain walking phase. Partial correlation coefficients showed significant correlations between fear-avoidance belief and right EO activity (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.377, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and between disability index and left IO activity (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.377, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) in patients with LBP. No significant difference was found in abdominal muscle activity in walking between patients with LLBP and HLBP (P\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a.05).This study demonstrated decreased IO muscle activity during certain walking phases in LLBP and HLBP compared with asymptomatic participants. Although altered IO muscle activity during walking was observed in patients with LBP, no changes were found with other abdominal muscles (EO, RA). Thus, these results provide useful information about abdominal muscle activity during walking in patients with LBP. labels: #Abdominal Muscles#Adult#Avoidance Learning#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Fear#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Muscle Contraction#Pain Measurement#Walking#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Gene alterations are crucial to the molecular pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer. The present study was designed to identify the potential candidate genes in the pancreatic carcinogenesis.METHODS: Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO) datasets of pancreatic cancer tissue were retrieval and the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from individual microarray data were merged. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, and gene coexpression analysis were performed.RESULTS: Three GEO datasets, including 74 pancreatic cancer samples and 55 controls samples were selected. A total of 2325 DEGs were identified, including 1383 upregulated and 942 downregulated genes. The GO terms for molecular functions, biological processes, and cellular component were protein binding, small molecule metabolic process, and integral to membrane, respectively. The most significant pathway in KEGG analysis was metabolic pathways. PPI network analysis indicated that the significant hub genes including cytochrome P450, family 2, subfamily E, polypeptide 1 (CYP2E1), mitogen-activated protein kinase 3 (MAPK3), and phospholipase C, gamma 1 (PLCG1). Gene coexpression network analysis identified 4 major modules, and the potassium channel tetramerization domain containing 10 (KCTD10), kin of IRRE like (KIRREL), dipeptidyl-peptidase 10 (DPP10), and unc-80 homolog (UNC80) were the hub gene of each modules, respectively.CONCLUSION: Our integrative analysis provides a comprehensive view of gene expression patterns associated with the pancreatic carcinogenesis. labels: #Carcinogenesis#Carrier Proteins#Case-Control Studies#Cytochrome P-450 CYP2E1#Databases, Genetic#Dipeptidyl-Peptidases and Tripeptidyl-Peptidases#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Gene Ontology#Humans#Membrane Proteins#Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 3#Pancreatic Neoplasms#Phospholipase C gamma#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Protein Interaction Maps#Signal Transduction'
b'Incidental cardiovascular findings are common and can be found in up to 70% of patients. Previously, several reports about incidental findings (IFs) on whole body computed tomography (CT) were published. However, no previous study investigated cardiovascular IFs in patients with unclear finding situation and trauma of unknown origin on whole body CT.The radiological database of 2 university hospitals was screened for patients with trauma of unknown origin and unclear finding situation investigated by whole body CT. The images were retrospectively analyzed by 2 radiologists in consensus. The findings were classified according to their clinical relevance. Clinically nonrelevant findings like valvular sclerosis, aortic sclerosis, or anatomic variants were excluded from this study. Moreover, the radiology reports were analyzed to assess initial reporting by the radiologist.Overall, we identified 60 patients with a mean age of 63 years. A total of 98 clinically relevant cardiovascular IFs (CRCIF) were identified in 60 (75%) patients (1.6 CRCIF per patient). The most prevalent finding was cardiomegaly in 23 patients, followed by coronary sclerosis in 21 patients and aortic ectasia in 11 patients; other findings were rarer. Sixty-one findings were reported (62.2%) and 37 were nonreported (37.8%). Thirty patients (50%) showed no traumatic event on whole body CT.CRCIFs are common in patients with unclear finding situation and trauma of unknown origin. Despite initial indication for trauma detection, the whole body CT should carefully be evaluated for CRCIF because of the high prevalence of clinically relevant findings. Notably, 37.76% of the findings were not reported by the radiologist. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cardiovascular Diseases#Female#Humans#Incidental Findings#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Whole Body Imaging#Wounds and Injuries#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Up to 40% of women gain excessive weight during pregnancy. Obesity complications and risks in parturient women undergoing cesarean section (CS) with different anesthetic methods remain unknown. This study aimed to assess the safety and risk of obese women undergoing CS delivery with various perioperative anesthetic methods.METHODS: Seven hundred ninety parturient women underwent CS under general anesthesia (GA), intraspinal anesthesia including epidural anesthesia (EA) and combined spinal-epidural anesthesia (CSEA). They were divided into morbid (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a255), severe (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a274), and non-obesity (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a261) groups. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (number NCT03002636).RESULT: Between 2013 and 2016, 790 pregnant were assessed. Compared with the non-obesity group, there were significantly more fetal distress and higher body mass index (BMI) in the morbid obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001, respectively). Significantly more patients showed preeclampsia, multifetation, amniotic fluid abnormality, and high bleeding amounts in the morbid obesity group compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.048, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.017, and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.018, respectively); more patients were administered EA and GA compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, respectively). More post-anesthesia care unit (PACU) patients were found in the severe obesity group no more than the non-obesity group. Significantly increased anesthesia puncture times for 5\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8an\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8a3 and n\xe2\x80\x8a\xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x8a5 were obtained in the morbid obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001 and P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001, respectively), with more patients in the puncture sitting position, compared with the non-obesity group (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0001).CONCLUSION: GA, EA, and CSEA are safe and effective in severely or morbidly obese patients. Morbidly obese parturient show increased likelihood for fetal distress, PACU, sitting position puncture, puncture difficulty, and other pregnancy complications. There were more anesthesia puncture times in morbidly obese patients. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia#Anesthesia, Epidural#Anesthesia, General#Anesthesia, Spinal#Apgar Score#Body Mass Index#Cesarean Section#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Obesity, Morbid#Postoperative Complications#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Complications#Pregnancy Outcome#Prospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'RATIONALE: The liver is the most frequent site of relapse of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). Surgery is always considered to be unsuitable because of the multiple metastases.PATIENT CONCERNS: In this report, we describe a case of large, multiple GIST liver metastases that were treated with percutaneous microwave ablation liver partition and portal vein embolization for planned hepatectomy (PALPP). A 44-year-old woman had undergone pancreaticoduodenectomy 4 years previously because of the diagnosis of a large duodenal GIST. Large, multiple liver metastases were observed 2 years later.DIAGNOSES: GIST liver metastasis was diagnosed using percutaneous ultrasound-guided biopsy.INTERVENTIONS: After 6 months of treatment with imatinib, the liver metastasis was stable. PALPP was performed because of insufficient future liver remnant (FLR) and right trisegmentectomy was successfully completed 10 days later.OUTCOMES: The patient has had no signs of local or systemic disease during 17 months of postsurgical follow-up.LESSONS: PALPP provides a new methodology for treatment of GIST liver metastasis in patients with insufficient FLR, and may have benefit in prolonging a durable remission. labels: #Adult#Catheter Ablation#Embolization, Therapeutic#Female#Gastrointestinal Neoplasms#Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors#Hepatectomy#Humans#Liver#Liver Neoplasms#Microwaves#Portal Vein'
b'RATIONALE: Although myocardial bridging (MB) is usually considered as benign, initial medical therapy and following surgical treatment in drug-refractory cases has been widely accepted for managing symptomatic MB. Before the patient proceeds to percutaneous or surgical intervention, however, the presence of objective ischemia in the corresponding myocardial territory should be documented.PATIENT CONCERN AND INTERVENTION: We herein report a 43-year-old male complaining of chest pain in whom cardiac CT with myocardial perfusion (cCTP) showed an MB of left anterior descending artery (LAD) with preoperative perfusion defect in corresponding myocardium and normalization of perfusion after supra-arterial myotomy.DIAGNOSIS: Myocardial bridging-induced ischemia.LESSONS: This case illustrates the potential utility of cCTP for the simultaneous assessment of MB and its hemodynamic significance for treatment planning and post-therapeutic evaluation although further research is needed to establish the clinical usefulness of this technique. labels: #Adult#Humans#Male#Myocardial Bridging#Myocardial Ischemia#Myocardial Perfusion Imaging'
b'This study aimed to investigate the association between sleeping pill use and hypertension or blood pressure (BP) via a cross-sectional analysis.A total of 11,225 subjects (5875 men and 5350 women) underwent health examinations. We compared the proportion of sleeping pill users among hypertension (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a5099) and normotensive (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6126) participants. We analyzed participants with no intake of antihypertensive medication (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7788), comparing the proportions with high systolic BP (SBP) \xe2\x89\xa5140, high diastolic BP (DBP) \xe2\x89\xa590, and high pulse pressure (PP) \xe2\x89\xa550\xe2\x80\x8amm Hg across 3 subgroups. These groups were classified according to the sleeping pill use [nonuse group (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6869); low-frequency-use group, defined as taking sleeping pills \xe2\x89\xa42 days per week (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a344); and high-frequency-use group, defined as taking sleeping pills \xe2\x89\xa53 days per week (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a575)].In the multivariable-adjusted model, odds of sleeping pill use (odds ratio (OR), 1.14; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) was significantly higher in the hypertensive group compared with the normotensive group. In participants with no intake of antihypertensive medication, odds of high SBP (OR, 0.65; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0005), high DBP (OR, 0.58; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.005), and high PP (OR, 0.77; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) were significantly lower in the high-frequency-use group compared with the nonuse group. Odds of high DBP (OR, 0.59; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) was significantly lower in the low-frequency-use group.Sleeping pills were more frequently required in hypertensive participants than in the normotensive ones. Sleeping pill use may decrease BP and assist in the treatment of high BP in patients with sleep disturbances. labels: #Aged#Antihypertensive Agents#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Monitoring, Ambulatory#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Sleep#Sleep Aids, Pharmaceutical#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: In total hip replacement (THR), it is essential to achieve a primary stability to guarantee good long-term results. A novel locking screw hip (LSH)-stem, anchored to the medial cortex of the proximal femur by 5 monocortical locking screws, was developed to overcome the shortcomings of uncemented press-fit and cemented straight stems while simultaneously achieving primary stability. The aim of this study was to investigate the biomechanical competence of the LSH-stem in comparison to an uncemented press-fit stem.METHODS: Six pairs of embalmed human cadaveric femora from donors aged 68 to 84 years were assigned to 2 study groups (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a6) with equal number of right and left bones. The specimens in each group and pair were implanted with either an uncemented press-fit stem or an LSH-stem and tested biomechanically under progressively increasing cyclic axial loading until catastrophic failure. Axial construct stiffness, failure load, and cycles to failure were detected and statistically evaluated at a level of significance P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.05.RESULTS: Although the axial stiffness was comparable for both prosthesis types, the uncemented press-fit stem showed a significant lower stability in terms of failure load and cycles to failure in comparison to the LSH-stem, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.04.CONCLUSION: Converting our results to percentage of bodyweight (BW) in an assumed adult patient of 80\xe2\x80\x8akg shows that the LSH-stem achieves a primary stability allowing to carry average loads of up to 507% BW, whereas the uncemented press-fit stem carried average loads of up to 404% BW. We conclude that both stems achieve a primary stability strong enough to carry hip joint loads experienced in the immediate rehabilitation period after THR. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Biomechanical Phenomena#Bone Screws#Cadaver#Femur#Humans#Joint Instability#Male#Prosthesis Design'
b'This study aimed to retrospectively investigate the factors related to pediatric obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children younger than 6 years and those older than 6 years.A total of 437 children who were hospitalized due to OSAHS between January 2014 and December 2014 were retrospectively reviewed. The children were further divided into OSAHS group and OSAHS + ADHD group. The general characteristics, OSA-18 quality of life, intention-hyperactivity score, and polysomnographic parameters (apnea-hypopnea index and the lowest oxygen saturation) were collected and compared between groups.There were 298 boys and 139 girls with the male to female ratio of 2.14:1. ADHD was found in 146 children including 105 boys and 41 girls with the male to female ratio of 2.56:1. Of these children, 31.62% and 35.46% had concomitant ADHD in children aged 4 to 5 years and those aged 6 to 11 years, respectively. In children aged 4 to 5 years, the incidence of allergic rhinitis was significantly higher (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.016) and the adenoid hypertrophy was more severe (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001) in those with concomitant ADHD. In children aged 6 to 11 years, the tonsil hypertrophy was more severe in those with concomitant ADHD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.019). In children with concomitant ADHD, OSA-18 score was higher than in those with OSAHS alone (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Higher frequency of respiratory events (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and more severe hypoxia (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) were found in children with concomitant ADHD than in those with OSAHS alone.As high as 30% of OSAHS children have concomitant ADHD, and the incidence of ADHD in OSAHS children is increasing over age. Boys are more likely to develop OSAHS and incidence of ADHD in OSAHS boys is higher than in OSAHS girls. In addition, risk factors of ADHD also vary between age groups. The ADHD is related to the severity of allergic rhinitis and adenoid hypertrophy in children aged 4 to 5 years, and to the severity of tonsil hypertrophy in children aged 6 to 11 years. Hypoxia may be an important factor causing ADHD. OSAHS should be treated as early as possible to reduce the incidence of ADHD in children. labels: #Adenoids#Age Factors#Attention Deficit Disorder with Hyperactivity#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Humans#Male#Palatine Tonsil#Pharyngeal Diseases#Polysomnography#Quality of Life#Retrospective Studies#Rhinitis, Allergic#Severity of Illness Index#Sex Factors#Sleep Apnea, Obstructive'
b'RATIONALE: Regorafenib is effective for metastatic colorectal cancer but its toxicity such as hemorrhage should be considered. The safety of regorafenib for the patient with the liver disease is not known.PATIENT CONCERNS: Seventy-one-year old man of colon cancer had myodesopsia and blood stool after 14 days from the initiation of regorafenib administration with 50% dose reduction due to liver dysfunction.DIAGNOSES: Fundus examination revealed hemorrhage of the retinal vein.INTERVENTIONS: Regorafenib treatment was discontinued and observational therapy was pursued.OUTCOMES: Retinal and gastrointestinal hemorrhage resolved in 1 week.LESSONS: Retinal hemorrhage should be considered as the differential diagnosis of myodesopsia in the patient treated by regorafenib. Safety and pharmacokinetic of continuous regorafenib administration for patients with liver dysfunction remains to be clarified. labels: #Aged#Antineoplastic Agents#Colorectal Neoplasms#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage#Humans#Liver Diseases#Male#Neoplasm Metastasis#Phenylurea Compounds#Pyridines#Retinal Hemorrhage'
b'To evaluate association of central blood pressure (BP) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) in diabetic patients with hypertension.This was a cross-section study and 360 participants were enrolled. Baseline characteristics were collected and indices of central BP including central systolic/diastolic BP (SBP/DBP), augmentation index adjusted for 75 beats per minute of heart rate (AIx@75) were measured. Participants were separated into with and without CVD groups and between-group differences were assessed. Linear regression analysis was used to evaluate potential risk factors for increased AIx@75. Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate association between central SBP and AIx@75 with CVD.Mean age was 50.6 years and male participants accounted for 57.8%. Thirty-five and 43 participants had coronary heart disease and ischemic stroke. Compared with participants without CVD, those with CVD were more likely to be male and smokers and had higher glycated hemoglobin level. Additionally, participants with CVD had significantly higher central SBP and AIx@75 compared with those without CVD. Ageing, male gender, and presence of coronary heart disease and ischemic stroke were associated with increased AIx@75, whereas renin-angiotensin-axis inhibitor was associated with reduced AIx@75. After adjusted for traditional risk factors including brachial SBP, both central SBP, and AIx@75 remained significantly associated with CVD, with odds ratio and 95% confidence interval of 1.09 (1.08-1.31) and 1.20 (1.15-1.42), respectively.Diabetic patients with hypertension, ageing, male gender, and presence of CVD are independent risk factors of central BP increase; and increased central SBP and AIx@75 are significantly associated with CVD. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Blood Pressure#Cardiovascular Diseases#China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Glycated Hemoglobin A#Heart Rate#Humans#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Regression Analysis#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Smoking'
b'This study is to prospectively evaluate the efficiency of sonography for volvulus diagnosis in neonates with clinically suspected intestinal malrotation.A total of 83 patients with suspected intestinal malrotation who underwent detailed abdominal sonography and upper gastrointestinal contrast study were included. Malrotation was characterized by inversion of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and superior mesenteric vein (SMV) in sonographic examination. The "whirlpool sign" of Color Doppler Sonography was recognized as a characteristic for malrotation with volvulus. The degrees of rotation of the SMV winding around SMA were also detected by sonography. Surgery was performed in patients with sonography diagnosed malrotation.A total of 39 patients were sonographically diagnosed as malrotation which was subsequently confirmed by surgery. The sensitivity and positive predictive value of the sonographic diagnosis were both 100% (39/39). The sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of "whirlpool sign" for the detection of midgut volvulus were 95.2% (20/21), 88.9% (16/18), and 92.3% (36/39), respectively. Greater degrees of rotation (equal or greater than 720\xc2\xb0) showed higher risk (odds ratio, 5.0; P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01) for intestinal necrosis occurrence.Sonography is more accurate in diagnosing suspected malrotation than upper gastrointestinal contrast study. Specific sonographic "whirlpool sign" related to volvulus may be used as a potential indicator for intestinal necrosis. In addition, sonography can exclude malrotation and may help the diagnosis of other diseases, such as annular pancreas and duodenal atresia. labels: #Digestive System Abnormalities#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Intestinal Volvulus#Male#Mesenteric Artery, Superior#Mesenteric Veins#Sensitivity and Specificity#Ultrasonography, Doppler, Color'
b"RATIONALE: Information on referred pain can be helpful for diagnosing diseases of the visceral organs. Here, the authors report a patient with cervical spinal cord injury (SCI) who had referred pain at the right side from the neck to shoulder, as a presentation of pulmonary embolism (PE).PATIENT CONCERNS: A 55-year-old man with complete tetraplegia, due to cervical SCI after C5 and C6 vertebral body fracture, complained of right neck-to-shoulder pain (numerical scale rating: 6). Despite pain medication (meloxicam 15\xe2\x80\x8amg, gabapentin 400\xe2\x80\x8amg, and propacetamol HCl 1\xe2\x80\x8ag), the pain was not reduced. Along with right neck-to-shoulder pain, he presented mild fever (37.8\xc2\xb0C) and mildly elevated respiratory rate (20\xe2\x80\x8abreaths/min). D-dimer level was also mildly elevated to 6.09\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL (normal value:\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a0.5\xe2\x80\x8amg/mL).DIAGNOSES: Computed tomography pulmonary angiography revealed PE in the right lower lobe pulmonary artery.INTERVENTIONS: For managing PE, rivaroxaban was administered for three days.OUTCOMES: After the administration of rivaroxaban, the patient's pain completely disappeared.LESSONS: This study shows that pain at the neck-to-shoulder area can occur following unexpected causes such as PE. Not limited to PE, the evaluation of diseases in the thoracic or abdominal organs is recommended if patients with cervical SCI present refractory pain in the dermatomes innervated by high cervical nerve roots. labels: #Cervical Cord#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neck Pain#Pulmonary Embolism#Shoulder Pain#Spinal Cord Injuries"
b'RATIONALE: Iridoschisis is a rare eye disease. In this case report, we described the examination and diagnosis of a case of iridoschisis accompanied by secondary glaucoma. We also observed the effects of treating the patient with a combination of goniosynechialysis and cataract removal.PATIENT CONCERN: A 67-year-old female patient presented with decreased vision in both eyes. An eye examination indicated that visual acuities (VAs) were 20/100 and light perception in the right and left eyes, respectively. Both eyes exhibited shallow anterior chambers and narrow angles. The lower portion of the iris was loosened, and cable-like tissue was visible. The intraocular pressures in the right and left eyes were 22 mmHg and 58 mmHg, respectively. At the time of presentation, no medication was being used.DIAGNOSES: The patient was diagnosed with iridoschisis [oculus sinister (OU), indicates left eye], secondary glaucoma (OU), senile cataract (OU), and pterygium (oculus uterque, indicates both eyes).INTERVENTION: After relevant examinations were conducted, goniosynechialysis and phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation were performed on the right eye under local anesthesia.OUTCOMES: Two days after surgery, the right eye had VA of 20/40 and a transparent cornea. The anterior chamber was deeper, and intraocular pressure had decreased to 16 mmHg. Three months after surgery, the patient exhibited improved VA in the right eye and a lower IOP of 11 mmHg.LESSONS: Relative to other approaches, goniosynechialysis combined with cataract removal is a better treatment option for iridoschisis complicated with closed-angle glaucoma triggered by peripheral anterior synechiae. labels: #Aged#Cataract#Cataract Extraction#Female#Glaucoma, Angle-Closure#Humans#Iris Diseases#Pterygium'
b'BACKGROUND: Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) instillation is widely used as an adjuvant therapy after transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) in patients with intermediate- and high-risk nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). However, the effective dose, duration, and strain of BCG have not yet been clearly determined. We aimed to elucidate the relationship between dose, duration, and strain of BCG and clinical outcomes in NMIBC patients treated with TURBT.METHODS: We conducted a literature search in Embase, Scopus, and PubMed databases for all relevant articles published up to October 2016 in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-analysis guidelines. The relative risks of clinical outcomes, including recurrence, progression, cancer-specific mortality, and all-cause mortality according to dose (standard vs low), duration (induction vs maintenance), and strain of BCG were presented as the pooled risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI).RESULTS: Nineteen studies meeting the inclusion criteria were finally selected in this meta-analysis. The risk of recurrence was significantly highly observed in case of low-dose BCG (RR, 1.17; 95% CI 1.06-1.30) and induction BCG (RR, 1.33; 95% CI 1.17-1.50) only group without heterogeneity among the included studies. Although there were no significant differences between dose or duration and other clinical outcomes. On direct comparison in each study comparing BCG strains, the Tice stain showed a relatively high probability of recurrence compared with the Connaught (RR, 1.29; 95% CI 1.01-1.64) and RIVM (RR, 2.04, 95% CI 1.28-3.25) strains. Funnel plot testing revealed no significant publication bias.CONCLUSION: The use of standard dose and maintenance BCG instillation may be effective to reduce recurrence rate after TURBT for NMIBC. Further large scale, well-designed, and prospective studies, with stratification of the patients into risk group at randomization, will be required to determine the optimal guideline of BCG use to improve clinical outcomes in NMIBC. labels: #Administration, Intravesical#BCG Vaccine#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Drug Administration Schedule#Humans#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Prospective Studies#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Urinary Bladder Neoplasms'
b'RATIONALE: Central nervous system (CNS) involvement of graft versus host disease (GvHD) is a rare cause of CNS disorders after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Chronic CNS GvHD symptoms are heterogeneous and include cerebrovascular manifestations, demyelinating disease and immune-mediated encephalitis. CNS-Acute GvHD is not formally defined in literature.PATIENTS CONCERNS AND DIAGNOSES: We report 7 cases of CNS-GvHD among which two had histological-proven disease. We reviewed 32 additional cases of CNS GvHD published in literature since 1990. In this cohort, 34 patients were transplanted for hematologic malignancies, and 5 for non-malignant hematopoiesis disorders. Of these patients, 25 had a history of chronic GvHD and immunosuppressive treatment had been decreased or discontinued in 14 patients before neurological symptoms onset. Median neurological disorder onset was 385 days [7-7320]. Patients had stroke-like episodes (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7), lacunar syndromes (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3), multiple sclerosis-like presentations (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a7), acute demyelinating encephalomyelitis-like symptoms (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a4), encephalitis (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a14), mass syndrome (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1), and 3 had non-specific symptoms. Median neurological symptoms onset was 81.5 days [7-1095]for patients without chronic GVHD history versus 549 days [11-7300] for patients with chronic GVHD (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.001). Patients with early involvement of CNS after allo-HSCT and no chronic GVHD symptoms were more frequently suffering from encephalitis (64% versus 28%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.07), whereas stroke-like episodes and lacunar symptoms were less frequent (9% versus 36%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.13).INTERVENTIONS: 34 patients with CNS-GvHD were treated with immunosuppressive therapy, including corticosteroids for 31 of them. Other treatments were intravenous immunoglobulin, plasmapheresis, cyclophosphamide, calcineurin inhibitors, mycophenolic acid, methotrexate and etoposide.OUTCOMES: 27 patients achieved a response: 10 complete responses, 15 partial responses and 2 transient responses. Of 25 patients with sufficient follow-up, 7 were alive and 18 patients deceased after CNS-GvHD diagnosis.LESSONS: CNS-related GvHD is a rare cause of CNS disorders after allo-HSCT and is associated with a poor prognosis. labels: #Adult#Central Nervous System Diseases#Female#Graft vs Host Disease#Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation#Humans#Immunosuppressive Agents#Male#Middle Aged'
b'RATIONALE: Choledochal cysts are a congenital disorder of the common bile duct that can cause progressive biliary obstruction and biliary cirrhosis. They were classified by Todani into five types. Of these, type VI choledochal cysts are rarely reported in the literature.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 22-month-old girl presented with intermittent epigastralgia for approximately 10 days and fever for three days. Fasting and total parenteral nutrition were administered after admission. However, sudden onset of severe epigastric pain occurred. An abdominal sonogram showed turbid ascites and peritonitis was impressed.DIAGNOSES: An emergent exploratory laparotomy was performed, and perforation of the posterior wall of types I and VI choledochal cysts was observed.INTERVENTIONS: Intraoperative cholangiography revealed concomitant types I and VI choledochal cysts with stricture of the distal common bile duct. Definite surgery for resection of the choledochal cysts and gallbladder was performed with Roux-en-Y choledochojejunostomy.OUTCOMES: The patient had no evidence of ascending cholangitis at three years after the operation.LESSONS: Type VI choledochal cysts are rarely reported in the literature. To our knowledge, this is the first reported pediatric case of concomitant types I and VI choledochal cysts complicated with acute pancreatitis and spontaneous perforation. labels: #Anastomosis, Roux-en-Y#Cholangiography#Choledochal Cyst#Choledochostomy#Female#Humans#Infant#Pancreatitis#Spontaneous Perforation'
b"RATIONALE: Hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) is caused by enterovirus. The virus may exist in secretions.PATIENT CONCERNS: Five neonates had symptoms of fever and maculopapular rashes involving face, trunk, breech, arms, and legs, especially scattering on palms and feet. Blood, oropharyngeal fluid, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples were collected and detected for further diagnoses with the consent of the infants' parents. Some of them suffered aseptic meningitis.DIAGNOSES: They were diagnosed as HFMD with CSF enterovirus positive.INTERVENTIONS: All of them continued breastfeed. Water bag was used during the pyrogenic stage. Antibiotics were administrated at first and withdrawn as soon as possible.OUTCOMES: None of them developed into brainstem encephalitis or pulmonary edema and they all recovered well.LESSONS: HFMD is more common in neonates than it has been thought. Enterovirus may exist in neonatal CSF and cause CSF cell to increase similar to purulent meningitis. Medical history, physical examination, and CSF enterovirus detection are important in making correct diagnosis. Unlike bacterial infection, HFMD is a self-limited disease. Once HFMD is determined and bacterial infection is ruled out, antibiotics should be avoided. labels: #Breast Feeding#Female#Hand, Foot and Mouth Disease#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male#Meningitis, Aseptic"
b"OBJECTIVE: Healthcare providers in emergency departments should wear respirators for infection protection. However, the wearer's vigorous movements during cardiopulmonary resuscitation may affect the protective performance of the respirator. Herein, we aimed to assess the effects of chest compressions (CCs) on the protective performance of respirators.METHODS: This crossover study evaluated 30 healthcare providers from 1 emergency department who performed CC with real-time feedback. The first, second, and third groups started with a cup-type, fold-type, and valve-type respirator, respectively, after which the respirators were randomized for each group. The fit factors were measured using a quantitative fit testing device before and during the CC in each experiment. The protection rate was defined as the proportion of respirators achieving a fit factor \xe2\x89\xa5100.RESULTS: The fold-type respirator had a significantly greater protection rate at baseline (100.0%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.0%) compared to the cup-type (73.6%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a39.6%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.003) and valve-type respirators (87.5%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a30.3%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.012). During the CC, the fit factor values significantly decreased for the cup-type (44.9%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a42.8%, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) and valve-type respirators (59.5%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a41.7%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.002), but not for the fold-type respirator (93.2%\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a21.7%, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.095).CONCLUSIONS: The protective performances of respirators may be influenced by CC. Healthcare providers should identify the respirator that provides the best fit for their intended tasks. labels: #Adult#Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation#Cross-Over Studies#Equipment Design#Female#Health Personnel#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Occupational Exposure#Prospective Studies#Respiratory Protective Devices#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Lipomas originated from fingers are rare and the dissection is necessary when the lipomas limit the finger movement or cause pain.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 57-year-old male was admitted to our department due to a painless swelling on the volar side of the middle finger of the right hand. The flexion movement of the distal interphalangeal joint was limited.DIAGNOSES: Imaging studies and open biopsy confirmed that it was a finger lipoma.INTERVENTIONS: An excisional biopsy was performed.OUTCOMES: The patient recovered completely after two weeks.LESSONS: Based on this case and literature we reviewed, ultrasound and MRI should be used to diagnose the finger lipoma and excision was the main treatment option. labels: #Fingers#Humans#Lipoma#Male#Middle Aged#Range of Motion, Articular'
b"BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) is considered a systemic disease with a primarily locoregional component. The accumulation of basic researches and clinical studies related to cytokine-induced killer (CIK) cells has confirmed their safety and feasibility in treating BC. By searching the PubMed, Embase, CNKI, and Wanfang databases, we conducted a meta-analysis to assess the efficacy and safety of DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen (Exp) compared with chemotherapy (Con) alone regimen for breast carcinoma. Studies were pooled, and the relative risk (RR) and its corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated.METHODS: Eleven relevant articles were included in this meta-analysis. We observed that complete response (CR) (RR = 1.54, 95% CI: 1.09-2.19, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.994, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%), partial response (PR) (RR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.33, 95% CI: 1.11-1.59, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.802, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%) and overall response rate (ORR) (RR\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1.37, 95% CI: 1.20-1.57, Pheterogeneity\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.619, I\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0%) in BC patients treatment with DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen was improved than that with chemotherapy alone. There was no difference in the incidence of leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, hair loss, nausea/vomiting, hepatic complications, and neurologic complications in BC patient's treatment with DC/CIK plus chemotherapy regimen and with chemotherapy alone.RESULTS: Compared to chemotherapy alone, DC/CIK plus chemotherapy treatment significantly increased CR, PR, and ORR; however, there was no difference between the safeties.CONCLUSION: DC/CIK plus chemotherapy treatment may be a valuable new option for the treatment of breast carcinoma in women. The present study, therefore, provides valuable information to help physicians make treatment decisions for their patients with BC. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Breast Neoplasms#Clinical Trials as Topic#Combined Modality Therapy#Cytokine-Induced Killer Cells#Dendritic Cells#Female#Humans#Immunotherapy, Adoptive"
b'Is to measure the corneal epithelial thickness (CET) in a group of healthy Egyptian population and to investigate its variation with age and sex using spectral domain-anterior segment optical coherence tomography (SD-AS-OCT).This cross-sectional observational study includes 240 eyes of 120 healthy individuals (60 men, 60 women). Each gender was divided into 4 equal groups according to age as follows (18-29 years), (30-44 years), (45-59 years), and (60-80 years). The CET in 17 points over a corneal diameter of 6.0\xe2\x80\x8amm was measured in each subject by SD-AS-OCT. The regional thickness changes were compared in different age groups of each gender separately and the correlations between the CET, age, and gender were analyzed.The CET of the central cornea (2\xe2\x80\x8amm), the paracentral and the midperipheral zones (2-5 and 5-6\xe2\x80\x8amm, respectively) of all males and females groups demonstrates highly significant changes with age (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001) with no significant difference between males and females. The measured parameters in the 2 age groups below 45 and above 45 years old revealed statistically significant difference with lower values in the elderly group (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001).The CET became thinner with age in the central, paracentral, and midperipheral zones in both genders and there is no difference between males and females. These findings could be valuable in refractive surgeries especially in age over 45. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cross-Sectional Studies#Egypt#Epithelium, Corneal#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Sex Factors#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Young Adult'
b"Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis (CPA) has recently been recognized as a significant global health burden. In China, the diagnosis of CPA is still unfamiliar to most doctors. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the clinical manifestations and diagnoses of CPA in China.A multidisciplinary team of doctors retrospectively screened 690 records of patients diagnosed with pulmonary aspergillosis from January 2000 to December 2016 at Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing, China. Of these, 69 patients were diagnosed with CPA. The patients' clinical characteristics were then retrieved and analyzed. Demographic, laboratory, and radiological data for these patients were compared by CPA type.Of the 69 patients diagnosed with CPA, 10 patients were diagnosed with chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis (CCPA), 15 patients with semi-invasive aspergillosis (SAIA), 41 patients with simple aspergilloma, and 3 patients with Aspergillus nodule. Further, 53.3% of the SAIA patients were obviously immunocompromised, and 60% of the CCPA patients, 26.7% of the SAIA patients, 7.3% of the simple aspergilloma cases were mildly immunocompromised. Previous underlying lung abnormalities were observed in 20% of CCPA patients, 53.3% of SAIA patients, and 80.5% of simple aspergilloma patients. The most common symptoms in the CPA patients were cough (92.8%), hemoptysis (63.8%), chronic sputum (23.2%), and fever (17.4%). The most common computerized tomography abnormalities were cavities (94.2%), nodule (84.1%), consolidation (4.3%), pleural thickening (2.9%), and infiltration (2.9%). CCPA, SAIA and simple aspergilloma patients were significantly different with respect to their course before diagnosis, constitutional symptoms, fever, hemoptysis, breathlessness, white blood cell count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein count, presence of nodule, and presence of a solitary lesion (all P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Furthermore, SAIA patients had a significantly shorter course before diagnosis and a significantly higher white blood cell count compared with CCPA patients (both P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).In China, underlying systemic immunocompromising conditions and lung diseases with mechanical impediments contribute to CPA. Simple aspergillosis was the most common diagnosis in CPA patients. The imaging characteristics of simple aspergillosis and Aspergillus nodules were quite discriminable, while CCPA, and SAIA were similar in their clinical and radiological features. Distinguishing between CCPA and SAIA depends mainly on the physician's clinical judgment. labels: #Adult#Aged#C-Reactive Protein#China#Cough#Female#Hemoptysis#Humans#Immunocompromised Host#Lung Diseases#Male#Middle Aged#Pulmonary Aspergillosis#Retrospective Studies#Young Adult"
b'Several scoring systems are commonly used to evaluate severity in patients with traumatic injuries. However, there is no generally accepted standard scoring system to assess the severity of thoracic trauma, specifically in patients who have sustained severe injuries. The present study aimed to evaluate the validity of the trauma and injury severity score (TRISS) and the thorax trauma severity score (TTSS) as predictors of in-hospital mortality in patients with severe thoracic trauma.We conducted a retrospective, consecutive review of the medical records of patients with severe thoracic trauma who were managed at our institution between January 2005 and December 2015. Inclusion criteria were patients with severe thoracic injury (injury severity score\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a18) who required intensive care therapy and who had no local or systemic infection. We analyzed the association between the trauma severity scores (TTSS and TRISS) and in-hospital mortality in these patients. We also determined the predictive value of the scores using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves.A total of 228 patients with severe thoracic trauma were included in this study. The in-hospital mortality rate was 21.9%. There was a statistically significant association between the TRISS and in-hospital mortality (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001), but the association between the TTSS and in-hospital mortality was not statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.547). The ROC curve demonstrated adequate discrimination, as demonstrated by an area under the curve value of 0.787 for the TRISS. At a cut-off value of 25.9%, the TRISS had a sensitivity of 83.6% and specificity of 73.5% to predict in-hospital mortality.The present study demonstrated that the TRISS, but not the TTSS, can be used to predict in-hospital mortality in patients with severe thoracic trauma; hence, additional prospective studies are required. labels: #Aged#Female#Glasgow Coma Scale#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Male#Middle Aged#ROC Curve#Retrospective Studies#Thoracic Injuries#Trauma Severity Indices'
b'The clinical significance of measuring central arterial blood pressure has been recently discussed. Although the postprandial reduction in blood pressure is well known, postprandial changes in central blood pressure have not been intensively studied. The present study investigated differences in the reduction of central and peripheral arterial blood pressure after administration of an oral glucose load.An oral glucose tolerance test (75\xe2\x80\x8ag) was performed in 360 participants in our physical checkup program. Brachial and central systolic blood pressures were assessed before and after the glucose load. Central arterial blood pressure was measured noninvasively using an automated device.The mean age was 53.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a8.2 years. Both brachial (127.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a17.7 to 125.0\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.3 mm Hg) and central arterial blood pressures were significantly decreased after an oral glucose load (118.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a17.9 to 112.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a16.8 mm Hg). The reduction in blood pressure was greater in central (7.3\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a11.5 mm Hg) than in brachial blood pressure measurements (3.4\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a11.3 mm Hg, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). Extreme blood pressure reduction (>20 mm Hg) was recorded more frequently in central (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a43, 12.3%) than brachial blood pressure measurements (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a20, 5.6%).An oral glucose load decreases both central and brachial systolic blood pressure, with more pronounced effects on central blood pressure. Postprandial reductions in blood perfusion of the important organs such as the brain may be underestimated when postprandial BP reduction is assessed using brachial BP measurements. labels: #Adult#Arterial Pressure#Blood Pressure#Blood Pressure Determination#Brachial Artery#Female#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Male#Middle Aged'
b'Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) is an acute phase protein produced in hepatocytes. Its deficiency affects the lungs and liver. A case-control study was carried out to determine the prevalence of 2 common deficiency alleles, PI*S and PI*Z, for alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency (AATD) in both healthy and chronic obstructive pulmmonary disease (COPD)-affected Saudi populations and to clarify the importance of genetic tests in the screening of people at risk for COPD.One thousand blood samples from healthy individuals and 1000 from COPD-affected Saudi individuals were genotyped for the above-mentioned alleles, using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), with the exclusion of any other nationalities. Data were analyzed by determining the allele and genotype frequencies through gene counting and its confidence intervals. The allele frequencies, derived by the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium method, were analyzed by Pearson Chi-squared tests. The confidence intervals for genotype frequencies were calculated using exploratory software for confidence intervals.Of the 1000 COPD patients included in our study, the prevalence of PI*S and PI*Z was 21.8% and 7.7%, respectively, while within the 1000 normal samples, these alleles occurred in 8.9% of patients for PI*S and 1.6% for PI*Z. The AAT deficiency genotype frequencies (PI*ZZ, PI*SS, and PI*SZ) were 6.5 per 1000 and 87 per 1000 for normal and COPD-affected Saudi individuals.Our results indicated a high prevalence of AATD alleles in the normal Saudi population and an association between AAT deficiency and pulmonary disease development. Additionally, our research confirms the importance of genetic screening to achieve early and accurate diagnosis of AATD. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Alleles#Case-Control Studies#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genotype#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Respiratory Function Tests#Saudi Arabia#Smoking#alpha 1-Antitrypsin#alpha 1-Antitrypsin Deficiency'
b'RATIONALE: Lymphomatoid granulomatosis is a very rare Epstein-Barr virus-driven lymphoproliferative disease. This disease has high mortality owing to its low incidence in conjunction with nonspecific presentations, which contribute to delays in diagnosis.PATIENT: An 87-year-old male had a week-long history of intermittent fever and general weakness. A chest radiograph showed multifocal patchy consolidations with nodular lesions.DIAGNOSES: Open lung biopsy using video-assisted thoracic surgery resulted in a diagnosis of grade III lymphomatoid granulomatosis. Three days after surgery, Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was identified from the culture of sputum samples collected at admission.INTERVENTION AND OUTCOMES: Antituberculous treatment was commenced first. However, after 34 days of antituberculosis medication, the patient died owing to aggravated lymphomatoid granulomatosis.LESSONS: This case highlights the fact that rare diseases should also be considered in differential diagnosis, particularly with a common presentation such as multiple lung nodules. Furthermore, a diagnosis of pulmonary lymphomatoid granulomatosis was made after open lung biopsy. To our knowledge, this is the first case of lymphomatoid granulomatosis coexisting with active tuberculosis in the Republic of Korea, where tuberculosis is endemic. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Humans#Lung Neoplasms#Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis#Male#Republic of Korea#Tuberculosis'
b'RATIONALE: Heptadactylia is a rare congenital disorder from the polydactyly family. Polydactyly is generally classified into 3 major groups: preaxial (medial ray), postaxial (lateral ray), and central polydactyly. Most common cases are related to preaxial or postaxial polydactyly. The rarity of central polydactyly can be explained in 3 ways. First, central polydactyly with duplication appearing on metatarsal is pretty uncommon. Second, the duplication appears isolated on the foot. Polydactyly is mostly associated with other physical defects or others duplications. Last, the duplication of the digital rays does not appear once but twice concerning all the digital rays and makes 7 functional toes appear. We describe this malformation with supporting iconography and radiography as well as its surgical management and functional results.PATIENT CONCERNS: We analyzed an original case of isolated heptadactylia on the foot of a 14-month-old girl. The supernumerary toes made it impossible for the child to wear standard shoes and her parents were worried about this problem.DIAGNOSES: Clinical foot examination and radiographs revealed the presence of 7 complete rays. Every toe was composed of phalanx and metatarsal ray. There was no other congenital deformity.INTERVENTIONS: Decision was made to resect the second and third rays (the two most misaligned toes in our consideration). The first stage of surgery was the ray resection and the second stage was the reconstruction of the intermetatarsal ligament to achieve a good functional and cosmetic results.OUTCOMES: After wound healing, the child was able to walk alone while wearing normal shoes.LESSONS: We demonstrated that treatment of foot polydactyly requires careful preoperative assessment, including radiographs and photography. A good clinical evaluation of the medial polydactyly improves type-specific recognition which may enhance the accuracy of surgical treatment. Polydactyly is frequently associated with other malformations. We recommend performing a general clinical examination to exclude concomitant malformations. We recommend surgical treatment around the onset of walking. labels: #Female#Humans#Infant#Polydactyly#Toes'
b"RATIONALE: Trans-sacral epiduroscopic laser decompression (SELD) is reported to have strong positive short-term effects in controlling lower back pain (LBP) or radicular leg pain following herniated lumbar disc (HLD). However, little is known about the possible complications following SELD.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 36-year-old man received SELD with YAG laser for controlling LBP and radicular pain due to HLD on L5-S1. However, after SELD, voiding and defecation difficulties and sensory deficits on the S3-5 dermatome were presented.DIAGNOSES: An areflexic neurogenic bladder was demonstrated by a urodynamic study four days after onset of sacral nerve root injury symptoms. In the electromyogram study, latency of electrically induced bulbocavernosus reflex (BCR) was delayed on both sides at four days after symptom onset. Based on the patient's symptoms and the results of the clinical evaluation, we diagnosed the patient as having an injury in the sacral nerve roots.INTERVENTIONS: The patient was observed without any specific medication.OUTCOMES: Three months after symptom onset, the patient's voiding and defecation difficulties were nearly completely recovered.LESSONS: In this study, we described a patient who showed neurogenic bladder and bowel and sensory deficits in the S3 to S5 dermatome due to sacral nerve root injury after SELD. During SELD, clinicians should be mindful of the possibility of injury to sacral nerve roots. labels: #Adult#Decompression, Surgical#Humans#Lasers, Solid-State#Male#Sacrum#Spinal Nerve Roots"
b'RATIONALE: Thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA) and red thrombus are suggested as a high-risk of embolic complications during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Intracoronary aspiration procedures occasionally result in either an insufficient thrombus removal or provide no significant effects on TCFA.PATIENT CONCERNS: A 76-year-old male underwent coronary angiography for chest pain.DIAGNOSES: Coronary angiography revealed a tight stenosis at the right coronary artery which resulted in treatment by PCI. Optical frequency domain imaging (OFDI) delineated a red thrombus with TCFA.INTERVENTIONS: To avoid embolic complications, excimer laser coronary angioplasty (ELCA) was applied with intracoronary aspiration before drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation.OUTCOMES: The red thrombus was vaporized by ELCA in an energy-intensity dependent manner and subsequently removed by intracoronary aspiration. The fibrous cap of TCFA was dissected with the material beneath the cap ablated by ELCA and extensively removed by intracoronary aspiration. DES implantation and postdilatation achieved an optimal result without flow compromise. This combined synergistic strategy of ELCA-aspiration-DES yielded a successful outcome.LESSONS: A synergistic embolus removal strategy combining ELCA, aspiration and DES implantation is a promising option for the treatment of high-risk plaque with potential embolic complications. labels: #Aged#Angioplasty, Laser#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Drug-Eluting Stents#Humans#Male#Percutaneous Coronary Intervention#Thrombosis'
b'BACKGROUND: T-helper 22 (Th22) cells are involved in host immunity against pathogen invasion and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of inflammatory diseases. However, the roles of Th22 cells in acute gouty arthritis remain unclear.METHODS: A case-control study was employed to illustrate the clinical significance of Th22 cells in acute gouty arthritis. In this study, 27 patients with acute gouty arthritis, 22 patients with intercritical gout (IG), and 20 healthy controls were recruited, and peripheral blood cells and plasma were collected for the detection of Th22, Th17, and Th1 cells, and plasma interleukin (IL)-22.RESULTS: The relative and absolute numbers of Th22 and Th17 cells were significantly higher in patients with acute gouty arthritis than in patients with IG and healthy controls. Plasma IL-22 levels were consistently higher in patients with acute gouty arthritis than in patients with IG and healthy controls (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). Th22 cell numbers were positively correlated with Th1 (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.648, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) and Th17 (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.379, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05) cell numbers in patients with gout. Moreover, Th22 cell numbers and plasma IL-22 levels were positively correlated with C-reactive protein levels (Th22: r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.444, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05; IL-22: r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.282, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05).CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that peripheral blood levels of Th22 cells increase during acute gouty arthritis suggesting a role for these cells in the pathophysiology of the disease. labels: #Adult#Arthritis, Gouty#Case-Control Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Flow Cytometry#Gout#Humans#Interleukins#Male#Middle Aged#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#Th1 Cells#Th17 Cells'
b'Obesity has become a serious social problem in industrialized countries in recent years. Clinically, although the evaluation of dietary behavior abnormalities is as important as any method of risk assessment for obesity, almost all the existing scales with many items may have numerous practical clinical difficulties. In this study, we aimed to prepare a short questionnaire to assess the dietary behavior abnormalities related to obesity. A total of 1032 individuals aged 20 to 59 years participated in the present study. Using item response theory (IRT), we selected the items for a short version from among 30 items of Sakata Eating Behavior Scale (EBS), which is widely used in Japan. As a result of the IRT-based analysis on the original 30-item version, 7 items were adopted as the short version. The correlation between the total score of the original EBS and the EBS short form was extremely high (r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.93, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.001). In examining the criterion validity, for all participants (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a1032), male (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a516), and female (n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a516), the correlation coefficients between the total score of the EBS short form and body mass index (BMI) were r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.26, r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.28, and r\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.28, respectively. The results of the receiver operating characteristic analysis was performed with obesity BMI\xe2\x80\x8a>\xe2\x80\x8a25\xe2\x80\x8akg/m as a dependent variable, the value of the area under the curve in the ROC was significantly higher in the 7-item version than in the total score of the original items (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.0005). In conclusion, the 7-item EBS short form was created. Furthermore, it was found that the EBS short form is a reliable and valid measure that can be used as an indicator of obesity in both clinical and research settings. labels: #Adult#Body Mass Index#Diet#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Japan#Male#Middle Aged#Obesity#Quality of Life#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'The majority of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) have electrocardiographic abnormalities, but the clinical significance of conduction disturbances remains unclear. This study aimed to evaluate age-dependent cardiac conduction disturbances by electrocardiogram (ECG) to identify risks of complete atrioventricular (AV) block in this patient population.In total, 47 patients with DMD (age, \xe2\x89\xa520\xe2\x80\x8ays) who recorded ECGs at our hospital from July 2015 to June 2016 were included in this study. The PR interval and QRS duration in their previous ECGs were analyzed retrospectively. Associations between ECG findings and left ventricular (LV) systolic function obtained from the latest echocardiography were examined.The mean age of patients was 27.6\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a6.0 years, and the mean observation period was 9.8\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.7 years. The PR interval gradually increased with age, but no ECGs showed an abnormally prolonged PR interval. On the other hand, the QRS duration tended to increase progressively with age, and some patients had an abnormally prolonged QRS duration. The QRS duration was not correlated with LV systolic function (P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.867). One patient who developed a complete AV block had a drastically prolonged QRS duration before the onset of the disorder.The QRS duration tended to increase progressively with age, irrespective of LV systolic function in patients with DMD. Attention should be paid to the QRS duration as an indicator of risk for complete AV block in older patients. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Cardiovascular Agents#Disease Progression#Echocardiography#Electrocardiography#Humans#Male#Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Ventricular Function, Left#Young Adult'
b'The present study compared the efficacy of gadolinium ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-EOB-DTPA)-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) in the estimation of hepatic fibrosis stages with histopathologic correlation.This retrospective study included 104 patients (87 men and 17 women; mean age, 60.6 \xc2\xb1 10.6 years) with chronic liver disease who underwent both Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI and MRE. The relative enhancement (RE) ratio of the liver parenchyma and the contrast enhancement index (CEI) were calculated as (SIpostliver\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8aSIpreliver)/SIpreliver and SIpost/SIpre, respectively, where SIpost and SIpre were the liver-to-muscle signal intensity ratios on the hepatobiliary phase images and noncontrast-enhanced images, respectively. The liver stiffness values were measured using MRE stiffness maps. The diagnostic performance of MRE, RE ratios, and CEI values for hepatic fibrosis staging were compared.The distribution of fibrosis stages was as follows: F0, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a3 (2.9%); F1, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a12 (11.5%); F2, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a17 (16.3%); F3, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a26 (25.0%); and F4, n\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a46 (44.2%). MRE, RE ratios, and CEI values correlated significantly with hepatic fibrosis (rs\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.79, -.35, -.25, respectively, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). MRE showed a significantly higher diagnostic performance than did RE ratios and CEI values for each fibrosis stage, except while distinguishing the F1 fibrosis stage (CEI, P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.15). A cutoff value of RE ratio\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a0.89 can be used to identify patients with significant hepatic fibrosis, with positive predictive value, sensitivity, specificity, and negative predictive value of 93.2%, 61.8%, 73.3%, and 24.4%, respectively.Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI can potentially predict significant hepatic fibrosis. However, the diagnostic performance of MRE for hepatic fibrosis staging was superior to that of Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced MRI. labels: #Aged#Contrast Media#Elasticity Imaging Techniques#Female#Gadolinium DTPA#Humans#Liver#Liver Cirrhosis#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Retrospective Studies#Sensitivity and Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: Rapid increases in desflurane concentration can transiently increase the heart rate (HR). Esmolol possesses a high \xce\xb21-adrenoceptor selectivity and a short duration of action. This preliminary study aimed at investigating the effects of esmolol on the HR and autonomic modulation during a desflurane-induced HR increase.METHODS: American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status I female subjects, aged 20 to 50 years, who were undergoing minor breast surgery were randomly assigned to 2 groups. Rapid increases in desflurane concentration were commenced after induction of anesthesia. Each subject received either i.v. saline (control group) or esmolol 0.5\xe2\x80\x8amg/kg (esmolol group) before desflurane inhalation. Using time-frequency spectral analysis of HR variability, the HR indices were studied at baseline, postinduction, posttreatment, as well as at minimal alveolar concentrations of desflurane reaching 1.0, 1.3, and 1.5. The low frequency (LF) power is influenced by both the sympathetic and parasympathetic activity, whereas the high frequency (HF) power reflects the parasympathetic activity. The LF/HF ratio is thought to reflect either sympathovagal balance or sympathetic modulation.RESULTS: Electrocardiograms for data analysis were obtained from 8 subjects in each group. Rapid increases in desflurane concentration after induction caused a HR increase. Both the corresponding LF and HF powers were low and the LF/HF ratio remained unchanged. This indicates that the desflurane-induced HR increase may be attributed to parasympathetic inhibition and may be independent of sympathetic activation. Esmolol pretreatment effectively attenuated desflurane-induced HR increase. Moreover, subjects receiving esmolol pretreatment had increased LF and HF powers, but did not have changes in their LF/HF ratios, as compared to those without esmolol.CONCLUSION: Esmolol pretreatment attenuates HR increase and parasympathetic inhibition during rapid increases in desflurane concentration. labels: #Adult#Anesthetics, Inhalation#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Rate#Humans#Isoflurane#Middle Aged#Parasympathetic Nervous System#Propanolamines#Prospective Studies#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: To assess the long-term prognostic value of F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) undergoing empiric radioiodine (RAI) therapy due to raising values of thyroglobulin (Tg).METHODS: Forty-nine patients with histological diagnosis of DTC (31 with papillary and 18 with follicular carcinoma) follow-up for a mean period of 7.9\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a5 years after empiric RAI therapy were retrospectively analyzed.RESULTS: FDG-PET/CT was negative in 15 (30.6%) patients and positive in 34 (69.4%), whereas postradioiodine therapy whole body scan (t-WBS) was negative in 16 (32.7%) and positive in 33 (67.3%) patients. FDG-PET/CT and t-WBS were in agreement in 32 patients (7 both negative and 25 both positive); on the contrary, in 17 patients there was disagreement between FDG-PET/CT and t-WBS (P\xe2\x80\x8a=ns). At short-term follow-up, Tg normalized in 19 (38.8%) patients and was unchanged or increased in 30 (61.2%). Of the 15 patients with negative FDG-PET/CT, 11 (73.3%) showed Tg normalization, whereas of the 34 patients with positive FDG-PET/CT, only 8 (23.5%) had Tg normalization (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=8.9, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.005). At multivariate analysis, FDG-PET/CT and Tg normalization at short-term follow-up were independent predictors of disease-free survival (\xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=26.3, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.0001), while Tg normalization was the only variable associated with overall survival \xcf\x87\xe2\x80\x8a=7.2, P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.01).CONCLUSION: FDG-PET/CT in association with Tg normalization at short-term follow-up may be useful for long-term prognostic stratification in DTC patients. labels: #Adult#Aged#Disease-Free Survival#Female#Fluorodeoxyglucose F18#Humans#Iodine Radioisotopes#Male#Middle Aged#Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography#Prognosis#Radiopharmaceuticals#Retrospective Studies#Thyroglobulin#Thyroid Neoplasms'
b'This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of Ahmed glaucoma valve (AGV) implantation in treating neovascular glaucoma (NVG) and to analyze the factors influencing the surgical success rate.This is a retrospective review of 40 eyes of 40 NVG patients who underwent AGV implantation at Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, China, between January 2014 and December 2016. Pre- and postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity, surgical success rate, medications, and complications were observed. Surgical success criteria were defined as IOP \xe2\x89\xa421 and>6 mm Hg with or without additional medications. Kaplan-Meier survival curves and Multivariate cox regression analysis were used to examine success rates and risk factors for surgical outcomes.The mean follow-up period was 8.88\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a3.12 months (range: 3-17). IOP declined at each visit postoperatively and it was statistically significant (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.001). An average of 3.55\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.86 drugs was applied preoperatively, while an average of 0.64\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb1\xe2\x80\x8a0.90 drugs was used postoperatively, with the difference being of statistical significance (P\xe2\x80\x8a<\xe2\x80\x8a.05). The complete surgical success rate of 3, 6, and 12 months after the operation was 85%, 75%, and 65%, respectively. Meanwhile, the qualified success rate of 3, 6, and 12 months after the operation was 85%, 80%, and 77.5%, respectively. The multivariate cox regression analysis showed that age (hazard ratio: 3.717, 7.246; 95% confidence interval: 1.149-12.048, 1.349-38.461; P\xe2\x80\x8a=\xe2\x80\x8a.028, .021) was influencing factors for complete success rate and qualified success rate among all NVG patients. Gender, previous operation history, primary disease, and preoperative IOP were found to be not significant.AGV implantation is an effective and safe surgical method to treat NVG. Age is an important factor influencing the surgical success rate. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#China#Female#Glaucoma Drainage Implants#Glaucoma, Neovascular#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Sex Factors#Visual Acuity'
b'Treating thoracic infective spondylodiscitis with anterior surgical approaches carry a relatively high risk of perioperative and postoperative complications. Posterior approaches have been reported to result in lower complication rates than anterior procedures, but more evidence is needed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of 1-stage posterior approaches for treating infectious thoracic spondylodiscitis.Preoperative and postoperative clinical data, of 18 patients who underwent 2 types of 1-stage posterior procedures, costotransversectomy and transforaminal thoracic interbody debridement and fusion and 7 patients who underwent anterior debridement and reconstruction with posterior instrumentation, were retrospectively assessed.The clinical outcomes of patients treated with 1-stage posterior approaches were generally good, with good infection control, back pain relief, kyphotic angle correction, and either partial or solid union for fusion status. Furthermore, they achieved shorter surgical time, fewer postoperative complications, and shorter hospital stay than the patients underwent anterior debridement with posterior instrumentation.The results suggested that treating thoracic spondylodiscitis with a single-stage posterior approach might prevent postoperative complications and avoid respiratory problems associated with anterior approaches. Single-stage posterior approaches would be recommended for thoracic spine infection, especially for patients with medical comorbidities. labels: #Central Nervous System Infections#Debridement#Discitis#Female#Humans#Length of Stay#Male#Operative Time#Postoperative Complications#Spinal Fusion#Thoracic Surgical Procedures#Thoracic Vertebrae'
b"Energy expenditure and ambient temperature (Ta) are intrinsically linked through changes in an animal's metabolic rate. While the nature of this relationship is stable, the breadth of change in thermoregulatory cost varies with body size and physiological acclimatization to season. To explore seasonal metabolic changes of small mammals, we studied a population of Eurasian red squirrels (Sciurus vulgaris) in a seminatural environment with a year-round supply of natural and supplemented food. In each season we measured the metabolic rate of wild-caught red squirrels, using open-flow respirometry, and hypothesized that individuals would make adjustments to contend with seasonal weather conditions. In comparison to summer animals, we predicted that winter squirrels would show (1) an increase in metabolic rate within the thermoneutral zone, (2) a decrease in the lower critical temperature of the thermoneutral zone, (3) a shallower slope of resting metabolic rate with decreasing Ta, and (4) lower thermal conductance. Surprisingly, we observed only minor changes in resting metabolic rate, and energetic modeling suggested that the scope of change was unlikely to be of ecological consequence. Hair area density was higher in winter than in summer, corresponding to a slightly elevated thermal conductance in summer, while body mass was reasonably constant year-round. We conclude that the scope of physiological seasonal adaptation is minimal when food is abundant and that squirrels instead rely on adjustments in activity to reduce exposure to low Ta. We suggest that this may explain the squirrel's success in a wide range of habitats, including urban areas, which require a rapid and flexible response to environmental changes and may indicate the capacity of other small mammal species to cope with environmental disturbance. labels: #Animals#Ecosystem#Energy Metabolism#Female#Food#Male#Sciuridae#Seasons"
b'Cyclic nigerosyl nigerose (CNN) is a cyclic tetrasaccharide that exhibits properties distinct from other conventional cyclodextrins. Herein, we demonstrate that treatment of B16 melanoma with CNN results in a dose-dependent decrease in melanin synthesis, even under conditions that stimulate melanin synthesis, without significant cytotoxity. The effects of CNN were prolonged for more than 27 days, and were gradually reversed following removal of CNN. Undigested CNN was found to accumulate within B16 cells at relatively high levels. Further, CNN showed a weak but significant direct inhibitory effect on the enzymatic activity of tyrosinase, suggesting one possible mechanism of hypopigmentation. While a slight reduction in tyrosinase expression was observed, tyrosinase expression was maintained at significant levels, processed into a mature form, and transported to late-stage melanosomes. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated that CNN treatment induced drastic morphological changes of Pmel17-positive and LAMP-1-positive organelles within B16 cells, suggesting that CNN is a potent organelle modulator. Colocalization of both tyrosinase-positive and LAMP-1-positive regions in CNN-treated cells indicated possible degradation of tyrosinase in LAMP-1-positive organelles; however, that possibility was ruled out by subsequent inhibition experiments. Taken together, this study opens a new paradigm of functional oligosaccharides, and offers CNN as a novel hypopigmenting molecule and organelle modulator. labels: #Animals#Blotting, Western#Cell Line, Tumor#Cyclodextrins#Glucans#Glucosamine#Hypopigmentation#Immunohistochemistry#Lysosomes#Melanins#Melanoma, Experimental#Melanosomes#Mice#Monophenol Monooxygenase#Osmotic Pressure#Stress, Physiological'
b'The zooarchaeological research presented here investigates Neolithic and Chalcolithic (ca. 6500-5000 cal. BC) animal exploitation strategies at U\xc4\x9furlu H\xc3\xb6y\xc3\xbck on the Turkish island of G\xc3\xb6k\xc3\xa7eada in the northeastern Aegean Sea. Toward this end, we first discuss the results of our analysis of the zooarchaeological assemblages from U\xc4\x9furlu H\xc3\xb6y\xc3\xbck and then consider the data within a wider regional explanatory framework using a diachronic approach, comparing them with those from western and northwestern Anatolian sites. The first settlers of G\xc3\xb6k\xc3\xa7eada were farmers who introduced domestic sheep, goats, cattle and pigs to the island as early as 6500 years BC. Our results align well with recently published zooarchaeological data on the westward spread of domestic animals across Turkey and the Neolithization of southeast Europe. Using an island site as a case study, we independently confirm that the dispersal of early farming was a polynucleated and multidirectional phenomenon that did not sweep across the land, replace everything on its way, and deliver the same "Neolithic package" everywhere. Instead, this complex process generated a diversity of human-animal interactions. Thus, studying the dispersal of early farmers from southwest Asia into southeast Europe via Anatolia requires a rigorous methodological approach to develop a fine-resolution picture of the variability seen in human adaptations and dispersals within complex and rapidly changing environmental and cultural settings. For this, the whole spectrum of human-animal interactions must be fully documented for each sub-region of southwest Asia and the circum-Mediterranean. labels: #Animals#Animals, Domestic#Archaeology#Body Size#Cattle#Fossils#Geography#Goats#Islands#Phylogeny#Sheep#Species Specificity#Swine#Turkey'
b'RNA binding protein polypyrimidine tract binding protein 2 (Ptbp2) as a key alternative splicing regulator for male germ cell development is well established. However, its expression levels and role in cryptorchidism testes tissues has not been explored. Additionally, the molecular mechanism of heat stress impacts the correct proliferation and differentiation of germ cells is unclear. To investigate whether changes in Ptbp2 expression are correlated with heat stress-induced germ cell injury in testicular tissue, we used a murine model of intraperitoneal cryptorchidism with surgical operation. Here we present compelling evidence that germ cells are severely damaged in mice with unilateral cryptorchidism, with non-obstructive azoospermia. And the Ptbp2 and Pgk2 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in parallel, leading us to conclude that the negative correlation between Ptbp2 levels and germ cell injury in unilateral cryptorchidism murine model. We hypothesize that Ptbp2 is susceptible to heat stress and its disruption has resulted in stability decline of germ cell transcripts Pgk2 mRNA, which consequently lead to germ cell injury in cryptorchidism testes. Thus, we confirm that Ptbp2 is an essential factor in heat stress-induced sperm cell injury and non-obstructive azoospermia. labels: #Animals#Cell Count#Cryptorchidism#Disease Models, Animal#Epididymis#Immunohistochemistry#Isoenzymes#Male#Mice, Inbred ICR#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Organ Size#Phosphoglycerate Kinase#Polypyrimidine Tract-Binding Protein#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Spermatozoa#Testis'
b'BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a chronic, progressive and fatal disease. Histone deacetylase 6 (HDAC6) alters function and fate of various proteins via deacetylation of lysine residues, and is implicated in TGF-\xce\xb21-induced EMT (epithelial-mesenchymal transition). However, the role of HDAC6 in pulmonary fibrosis is unknown.METHODS: HDAC6 expression in IPF and control lungs was assessed by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and immunoblots. Lung fibroblasts were treated with TGF-\xce\xb21 \xc2\xb1 HDAC6 inhibitors (Tubacin, Tubastatin, ACY1215, or MC1568), and fibrotic markers such as type I collagen were assessed using qRT-PCR and immunoblots. Mice were treated with bleomycin (oropharyngeal aspiration; single dose) \xc2\xb1 Tubastatin (intraperitoneally injection; daily for 21 days), and lung collagen expression was gauged using immunoblots and trichrome staining. In a separate experiment, HDAC6 wild-type (WT) and knockout (KO) mice were administered bleomycin, and lungs were evaluated in the same manner.RESULTS: HDAC6 expression was deregulated in IPF lungs. Among the HDAC6 inhibitors tested, only Tubastatin significantly repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced expression of type-1 collagen in lung fibroblasts, and this finding was coupled with decreased Akt phosphorylation and increased Akt-PHLPP (PH domain and Leucine rich repeat Protein Phosphatase) association. Tubastatin repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced S6K phosphorylation, HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression, and VEGF expression. Tubastatin also repressed TGF-\xce\xb21-induced inhibition of LC3B-II (a marker of autophagosome formation). In bleomycin-treated mouse lungs, HDAC6 expression was increased, and Tubastatin repressed type-1 collagen expression. However, in HDAC6 KO mice, bleomycin-induced type-1 collagen expression was not repressed compared to WT mice. Knockdown of HDAC6, as well as HDAC10, another potential Tubastatin target, did not inhibit TGF-\xce\xb21-induced collagen expression in lung fibroblasts.CONCLUSIONS: HDAC6 expression is altered during lung fibrogenesis. Tubastatin represses TGF-\xce\xb21-induced collagen expression, by diminishing Akt phosphorylation and regulating downstream targets such as HIF-1\xce\xb1-VEGF axis and autophagy. Tubastatin-treated WT mice are protected against bleomycin-induced fibrosis, but HDAC6 KO mice are not. Our data suggest that Tubastatin ameliorates pulmonary fibrosis, by targeting the TGF\xce\xb2-PI3K-Akt pathway, likely via an HDAC6-independent mechanism. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Autophagosomes#Autophagy#Bleomycin#Collagen Type I#Female#Fibroblasts#Histone Deacetylase 6#Histone Deacetylases#Humans#Hydroxamic Acids#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis#Indoles#Lung#Male#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Mice, Knockout#Middle Aged#Multiprotein Complexes#Nuclear Proteins#Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases#Phosphoprotein Phosphatases#Phosphorylation#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#RNA, Messenger#Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases#Signal Transduction#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transforming Growth Factor beta#Tubulin#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A'
b'Camera trapping has become an increasingly widespread tool for wildlife ecologists, with large numbers of studies relying on photo capture rates or presence/absence information. It is increasingly clear that camera placement can directly impact this kind of data, yet these biases are poorly understood. We used a paired camera design to investigate the effect of small-scale habitat features on species richness estimates, and capture rate and detection probability of several mammal species in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, USA. Cameras were deployed at either log features or on game trails with a paired camera at a nearby random location. Overall capture rates were significantly higher at trail and log cameras compared to their paired random cameras, and some species showed capture rates as much as 9.7 times greater at feature-based cameras. We recorded more species at both log (17) and trail features (15) than at their paired control cameras (13 and 12 species, respectively), yet richness estimates were indistinguishable after 659 and 385 camera nights of survey effort, respectively. We detected significant increases (ranging from 11-33%) in detection probability for five species resulting from the presence of game trails. For six species detection probability was also influenced by the presence of a log feature. This bias was most pronounced for the three rodents investigated, where in all cases detection probability was substantially higher (24.9-38.2%) at log cameras. Our results indicate that small-scale factors, including the presence of game trails and other features, can have significant impacts on species detection when camera traps are employed. Significant biases may result if the presence and quality of these features are not documented and either incorporated into analytical procedures, or controlled for in study design. labels: #Animals#Animals, Wild#Bias#Biodiversity#Ecosystem#Models, Theoretical#Photography#Probability#Species Specificity'
b"BACKGROUND: Climate change affects human health. The respective consequences are predicted to increase in the future. Patients with chronic lung disease are particularly vulnerable to the involved environmental alterations. However, their subjective perception and reactions to these alterations remain unknown.METHODS: In this pilot study, we surveyed 172 adult patients who underwent pulmonary rehabilitation and 832 adult tourists without lung disease in the alpine region about their perception of being affected by climate change and their potential reaction to specific consequences. The patients' survey also contained the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) to rate the severity of symptoms.RESULTS: Most of the patients stated asthma (73.8%), COPD (9.3%) or both (11.0%) as underlying disease while 5.8% suffered from other chronic lung diseases. Patients and tourists feel equally affected by current climate change in general, while allergic subjects in both groups feel significantly more affected (p = 0.04). The severity of symptoms assessed by CAT correlates with the degree of feeling affected (p<0.01). The main disturbing consequences for patients are decreased air quality, increasing numbers of ticks and mosquitos and a rising risk for allergy and extreme weather events such as thunderstroms, while tourists are less disturbed by these factors. Increasing number of heat-days is of little concern to both groups.CONCLUSION: Overall patients are more sensitive to health-related consequences of climate change. Yet, the hazard of heat-days seems underestimated and awareness should be raised. labels: #Adult#Chronic Disease#Climate Change#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Perception#Pulmonary Disease, Chronic Obstructive#Rhinitis, Allergic#Statistics, Nonparametric"
b'BACKGROUND: Finger opposition movements are the basis of many daily living activities and are essential in general for manipulating objects; an engineered glove quantitatively assessing motor performance during sequences of finger opposition movements has been shown to be useful to provide reliable measures of finger motor impairment, even subtle, in subjects affected by neurological diseases. However, the obtained behavioral parameters lack published reference values.OBJECTIVE: To determine mean values for different motor behavioral parameters describing the strategy adopted by healthy people in performing repeated sequences of finger opposition movements, examining associations with gender and age.METHODS: Normative values for finger motor performance parameters were obtained on a sample of 255 healthy volunteers executing sequences of finger-to-thumb opposition movements, stratified by gender and over a wide range of ages. Touch duration, inter-tapping interval, movement rate, correct sequences (%), movements in advance compared with a metronome (%) and inter-hand interval were assessed.RESULTS: Increasing age resulted in decreased movement speed, advance movements with respect to a cue, correctness of sequences, and bimanual coordination. No significant performance differences were found between male and female subjects except for the duration of the finger touch, the interval between two successive touches and their ratio.CONCLUSIONS: We report age- and gender-specific normal mean values and ranges for different parameters objectively describing the performance of finger opposition movement sequences, which may serve as useful references for clinicians to identify possible deficits in subjects affected by diseases altering fine hand motor skills. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Demography#Female#Fingers#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motor Activity#Touch#Young Adult'
b'The effects of growth phase on the lipid content and surface properties of oleaginous microalgae Botryococcus sp. FACGB-762, Chlorella sp. XJ-445 and Desmodesmus bijugatus XJ-231 were investigated in this study. The results showed that throughout the growth phases, the lipid content of microalgae increased. The surface properties like particle size, the degree of hydrophobicity, and the total concentration of functional groups increased while net surface zeta potential decreased. The results suggested that the growth stage had significant influence not only on the lipid content but also on the surface characteristics. Moreover, the lipid content was significantly positively related to the concentration of hydroxyl functional groups in spite of algal strains or growth phases. These results provided a basis for further studies on the refinery process using oleaginous microalgae for biofuel production. labels: #Biomass#Chlorella#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Lipids#Microalgae#Particle Size#Potentiometry#Sample Size#Static Electricity#Surface Properties'
b'Postoperative epidural analgesia often needs rate readjustment using top-ups. Patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) is said to reduce the requirement of epidural top-ups when compared to continuous epidural analgesia (CEA). We compared CEA and PCEA in major thoracic and abdominal surgery, in a cohort study. The primary endpoint was the required number of epidural top-ups. Secondary endpoints were pain scores, side effects and workload differences. We analysed 199 patients with CEA and 187 with PCEA. Both groups had similar pain scores. The total number of top-ups was 75 in 57 patients (CEA) versus 20 top-ups in 18 patients (PCEA). (p = 0.0001) Sedation tended to occur more frequently in patients with CEA versus PCEA, 5.5% vs 1.6% (p = 0.05). Implementation of PCEA led to a decreased number of top-ups, fewer side-effects and decreased use of the postoperative care unit. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Epidural#Analgesia, Patient-Controlled#Analgesics, Opioid#Anesthetics, Local#Bupivacaine#Female#Fentanyl#Humans#Male#Pain Measurement#Pain, Postoperative#Postoperative Care#Postoperative Period#Thoracic Surgical Procedures'
b'INTRODUCTION: The potential impact of targeting different components of an adverse lipid profile in populations with multiple cardiovascular risk factors is not completely clear. This study aims to assess the association between different components of the standard lipid profile with all-cause mortality and hospitalization due to cardiovascular events in a high-risk population.METHODS: This prospective registry included high risk adults over 30 years old free of cardiovascular disease (2008-2012). Diagnosis of hypertension, dyslipidemia or diabetes mellitus was inclusion criterion. Lipid biomarkers were evaluated. Primary endpoints were all-cause mortality and hospital admission due to coronary heart disease or stroke. We estimated adjusted rate ratios (aRR), absolute risk differences and population attributable risk associated with adverse lipid profiles.RESULTS: 51,462 subjects were included with a mean age of 62.6 years (47.6% men). During an average follow-up of 3.2 years, 919 deaths, 1666 hospitalizations for coronary heart disease and 1510 hospitalizations for stroke were recorded. The parameters that showed an increased rate for total mortality, coronary heart disease and stroke hospitalization were, respectively, low HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.25, 1.29 and 1.23; high Total/HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.22, 1.38 and 1.25; and high Triglycerides/HDL-Cholesterol: aRR 1.21, 1.30, 1.09. The parameters that showed highest population attributable risk (%) were, respectively, low HDL-Cholesterol: 7.70, 11.42, 8.40; high Total/HDL-Cholesterol: 6.55, 12.47, 8.73; and high Triglycerides/HDL-Cholesterol: 8.94, 15.09, 6.92.CONCLUSIONS: In a population with cardiovascular risk factors, HDL-cholesterol, Total/HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides/HDL-cholesterol ratios were associated with a higher population attributable risk for cardiovascular disease compared to other common biomarkers. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cardiovascular Diseases#Cholesterol, HDL#Cholesterol, LDL#Coronary Disease#Diabetes Mellitus#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Hypertension#Lipids#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Stroke#Triglycerides'
b'Odour-baited technologies are increasingly considered for effective monitoring of mosquito populations and for the evaluation of vector control interventions. The BG-Malaria trap (BGM), which is an upside-down variant of the widely used BG-Sentinel trap (BGS), has been demonstrated to be effective to sample the Brazilian malaria vector, Anopheles darlingi. We evaluated the BGM as an improved method for sampling the African malaria vectors, Anopheles arabiensis. Experiments were conducted inside a large semi-field cage to compare trapping efficiencies of BGM and BGS traps, both baited with the synthetic attractant, Ifakara blend, supplemented with CO2. We then compared BGMs baited with either of four synthetic mosquito lures, Ifakara blend, Mbita blend, BG-lure or CO2, and an unbaited BGM. Lastly, we compared BGMs baited with the Ifakara blend dispensed via either nylon strips, BG cartridges (attractant-infused microcapsules encased in cylindrical plastic cartridge) or BG sachets (attractant-infused microcapsules encased in plastic sachets). All tests were conducted between 6P.M. and 7A.M., with 200-600 laboratory-reared An. arabiensis released nightly in the test chamber. The median number of An. arabiensis caught by the BGM per night was 83, IQR:(73.5-97.75), demonstrating clear superiority over BGS (median catch = 32.5 (25.25-37.5)). Compared to unbaited controls, BGMs baited with Mbita blend caught most mosquitoes (45 (29.5-70.25)), followed by BGMs baited with CO2 (42.5 (27.5-64)), Ifakara blend (31 (9.25-41.25)) and BG lure (16 (4-22)). BGM caught 51 (29.5-72.25) mosquitoes/night, when the attractants were dispensed using BG-Cartridges, compared to BG-Sachet (29.5 (24.75-40.5)), and nylon strips (27 (19.25-38.25)), in all cases being significantly superior to unbaited controls (p<000.1). The findings demonstrate potential of the BGM as a sampling tool for African malaria vectors over the standard BGS trap. Its efficacy can be optimized by selecting appropriate odour baits and odour-dispensing systems. labels: #Animals#Anopheles#Insect Vectors#Malaria#Mosquito Control#Odorants'
b'The inflammatory and metabolic derangements of obesity in pregnant women generate an adverse intrauterine environment, increase pregnancy complications and adverse fetal outcomes and program the fetus for obesity and metabolic syndrome in later life. We hypothesized that epigenetic modifications in placenta including altered DNA methylation/hydroxymethylation may mediate these effects. Term placental villous tissue was collected following cesarean section from lean (prepregnancy BMI<25) or obese (BMI>30) women. Genomic DNA was isolated, methylated and hydroxymethylated DNA immunoprecipitated and hybridized to the NimbleGen 2.1M human DNA methylation array. Intermediate metabolites in placental tissues were measured by HPLC-ESI-MS, ascorbate levels by reverse phase HPLC and gene expression by RT-PCR. Differentially methylated and hydroxymethylated regions occurred across the genome, with a 21% increase in methylated but a 31% decrease in hydroxymethylated regions in obese vs lean groups. Whereas increased methylation and decreased methylation was evident around transcription start sites of multiple genes in the GH/CSH and PSG gene clusters on chromosomes 17 and 19 in other areas there was no relationship. Increased methylation was associated with decreased expression only for some genes in these clusters. Biological pathway analysis revealed the 262 genes which showed reciprocal differential methylation/ hydroxymethylation were enriched for pregnancy, immune response and cell adhesion-linked processes. We found a negative relationship for maternal BMI but a positive relationship for ascorbate with \xce\xb1-ketoglutarate a metabolite that regulates ten eleven translocase (TET) which mediates DNA methylation. We provide evidence for the obese maternal metabolic milieu being linked to an altered DNA methylome that may affect placental gene expression in relation to adverse outcomes. labels: #5-Methylcytosine#Adiposity#Body Mass Index#DNA Methylation#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Genome, Human#Humans#Metabolome#Multigene Family#Obesity#Placenta#Pregnancy#Thinness'
b'Thiamine is an essential enzyme cofactor required for proper metabolic function and maintenance of metabolism and energy production in the brain. In developed countries, thiamine deficiency (TD) is most often manifested following chronic alcohol consumption leading to impaired mitochondrial function, oxidative stress, inflammation and excitotoxicity. These biochemical lesions result in apoptotic cell death in both neurons and astrocytes. Comparable histological injuries in patients with hypoxia/ischemia and TD have been described in the thalamus and mammillary bodies, suggesting a congruency between the cellular responses to these stresses. Consistent with hypoxia/ischemia, TD stabilizes and activates Hypoxia Inducible Factor-1\xce\xb1 (HIF-1\xce\xb1) under physiological oxygen levels. However, the role of TD-induced HIF-1\xce\xb1 in neurological injury is currently unknown. Using Western blot analysis and RT-PCR, we have demonstrated that TD induces HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression and activity in primary mouse astrocytes. We observed a time-dependent increase in mRNA and protein expression of the pro-apoptotic and pro-inflammatory HIF-1\xce\xb1 target genes MCP1, BNIP3, Nix and Noxa during TD. We also observed apoptotic cell death in TD as demonstrated by PI/Annexin V staining, TUNEL assay, and Cell Death ELISA. Pharmacological inhibition of HIF-1\xce\xb1 activity using YC1 and thiamine repletion both reduced expression of pro-apoptotic HIF-1\xce\xb1 target genes and apoptotic cell death in TD. These results demonstrate that induction of HIF-1\xce\xb1 mediated transcriptional up-regulation of pro-apoptotic/inflammatory signaling contributes to astrocyte cell death during thiamine deficiency. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Astrocytes#Cells, Cultured#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Male#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Thiamine#Thiamine Deficiency#Tumor Suppressor Protein p53'
b'BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD) impacts millions of individuals worldwide and more than 100,000 people in the United States. Leg ulcers are the most common cutaneous manifestation of SCD. The health status of individuals living with chronic leg ulcers is not only influenced by clinical manifestations such as pain duration and intensity, but also by psychosocial factors. Garnering insights into the psychosocial impact can provide a more holistic view of their influence on quality of life.METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with participants living with active SCD-associated leg ulcers or with a history of ulcers. Subjects were recruited from an ongoing study (INSIGHTS, Clin Trial.Gov NCT02156102) and consented to this qualitative phase of the study. Five areas were explored: leg ulcer pain, physical function, social-isolation, social relationships and religious support. Data was collected from 20 individuals during these interviews and a thematic analysis was performed and reported.RESULTS: Twenty participants with a mean age of 42.4 (SD \xc2\xb1 11.1years) were included in the study. Major themes identified included:1) pain (acute and chronic); 2) compromised physical function as demonstrated by decreased ability to walk, run, and play sports; 3) social isolation from activities either by others or self-induced as a means of avoiding certain emotions, such as embarrassment; 4) social relationships (family support and social network); 5) support and comfort through their religion or spirituality.CONCLUSIONS: SCD patients with leg ulcers expressed that they experience social isolation, intense and frequent ulcer pain, and difficulty in physical function. SCD-associated leg ulcers have been studied from a clinical approach, but the psychosocial factors investigated in this study informs how quality of life is impacted by the leg ulcers. labels: #Adult#Anemia, Sickle Cell#Female#Humans#Interview, Psychological#Leg Ulcer#Male#Middle Aged#Pain Measurement#Social Isolation'
b'An investigation of a questionable species of the genus Alseodaphne led to the discovery of a new genus Alseodaphnopsis H. W. Li&J. Li, gen. nov., separated from Alseodaphne Nees, and a new species Alseodaphnopsis ximengensis H. W. Li&J. Li, sp. nov., endemic to Yunnan province, China. This new species is characterized by having big, axillary, paniculate inflorescences, as well as large, subglobose fruits. Based on DNA sequence data from two gene regions (nuclear ribosomal ITS and LEAFY intron II), we investigate its phylogenetic position within the Persea group. Phylogenies using maximum parsimony (MP) and Bayesian inference (BI) support the recognition of Alseodaphnopsis as a distinct genus but do not resolve well its relationship within the Persea group. The new genus is circumscribed, eight new combinations for its species are made, and a description and illustration of the new species are provided. labels: #Base Sequence#Bayes Theorem#Databases, Genetic#Inflorescence#Introns#Lauraceae#Organ Size#Phylogeny'
b'Dinoflagellate species belonging to the genera Gambierdiscus and Fukuyoa produce ciguatoxins (CTXs), potent neurotoxins that concentrate in fish causing ciguatera fish poisoning (CFP) in humans. While the structures and toxicities of ciguatoxins isolated from fish in the Pacific and Caribbean are known, there are few data on the variation in toxicity between and among species of Gambierdiscus and Fukuyoa. Quantifying the differences in species-specific toxicity is especially important to developing an effective cell-based risk assessment strategy for CFP. This study analyzed the ciguatoxicity of 33 strains representing seven Gambierdiscus and one Fukuyoa species using a cell based Neuro-2a cytotoxicity assay. All strains were isolated from either the Caribbean or Gulf of Mexico. The average toxicity of each species was inversely proportional to growth rate, suggesting an evolutionary trade-off between an investment in growth versus the production of defensive compounds. While there is 2- to 27-fold variation in toxicity within species, there was a 1740-fold difference between the least and most toxic species. Consequently, production of CTX or CTX-like compounds is more dependent on the species present than on the random occurrence of high or low toxicity strains. Seven of the eight species tested (G. belizeanus, G. caribaeus, G. carolinianus, G. carpenteri, Gambierdiscus ribotype 2, G. silvae and F. ruetzleri) exhibited low toxicities, ranging from 0 to 24.5 fg CTX3C equivalents cell-1, relative to G. excentricus, which had a toxicity of 469 fg CTX3C eq. cell-1. Isolates of G. excentricus from other regions have shown similarly high toxicities. If the hypothesis that G. excentricus is the primary source of ciguatoxins in the Atlantic is confirmed, it should be possible to identify areas where CFP risk is greatest by monitoring only G. excentricus abundance using species-specific molecular assays. labels: #Analysis of Variance#Animals#Caribbean Region#Cell Line#Ciguatoxins#Dinoflagellida#Gulf of Mexico#Mice#Species Specificity#Toxicity Tests'
b'Proton therapy is a rapidly progressing field for cancer treatment. Globally, many proton therapy facilities are being commissioned or under construction. Secondary neutrons are an important issue during the commissioning process of a proton therapy facility. The purpose of this study is to model and validate scanning nozzles of proton therapy at Samsung Medical Center (SMC) by Monte Carlo simulation for beam commissioning. After the commissioning, a secondary neutron ambient dose from proton scanning nozzle (Gantry 1) was simulated and measured. This simulation was performed to evaluate beam properties such as percent depth dose curve, Bragg peak, and distal fall-off, so that they could be verified with measured data. Using the validated beam nozzle, the secondary neutron ambient dose was simulated and then compared with the measured ambient dose from Gantry 1. We calculated secondary neutron dose at several different points. We demonstrated the validity modeling a proton scanning nozzle system to evaluate various parameters using FLUKA. The measured secondary neutron ambient dose showed a similar tendency with the simulation result. This work will increase the knowledge necessary for the development of radiation safety technology in medical particle accelerators. labels: #Computer Simulation#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Monte Carlo Method#Neutrons#Proton Therapy#Protons#Radiotherapy Dosage#Reproducibility of Results'
b'Iron (Fe) deficiency is one of many conditions that can seriously damage crops. Low levels of photosynthesis can lead to the degradation of chlorophyll content and impaired respiration in affected plants, which together cause poor growth and reduce quality. Although ethylene plays an important role in responses to Fe deficiency, a limited number of studies have been carried out on ethylene response factor (ERFs) as components of plant regulation mechanisms. Thus, this study aimed to investigate the role of AtERF4 in plant responses to Fe deficiency. Results collected when Arabidopsis thaliana was grown under Fe deficient conditions as well as in the presence of 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid (ACC) revealed that leaf chlorosis did not occur over short timescales and that chloroplast structural integrity was retained. At the same time, expression of the chlorophyll degradation-related genes AtPAO and AtCLH1 was inhibited and net H+ root flux was amplified. Our results show that chlorophyll content was enhanced in the mutant erf4, while expression of the chlorophyll degradation gene AtCLH1 was reduced. Ferric reductase activity in roots was also significantly higher in the mutant than in wild type plants, while erf4 caused high levels of expression of the genes AtIRT1 and AtHA2 under Fe deficient conditions. We also utilized yeast one-hybrid technology in this study to determine that AtERF4 binds directly to the AtCLH1 and AtITR1 promoter. Observations show that transient over-expression of AtERF4 resulted in rapid chlorophyll degradation in the leaves of Nicotiana tabacum and the up-regulation of gene AtCLH1 expression. In summary, AtERF4 plays an important role as a negative regulator of Fe deficiency responses, we hypothesize that AtERF4 may exert a balancing effect on plants subject to nutrition stress. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Amino Acids, Cyclic#Arabidopsis#Arabidopsis Proteins#Chlorophyll#Ethylenes#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genes, Plant#Glycine#Iron#Models, Biological#Mutation#Phenotype#Plant Roots#Repressor Proteins'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Deficits in the ability to multitask contribute to gait abnormalities and falls in many at-risk populations. However, it is unclear whether older adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) also demonstrate impairments in multitasking. The purpose of this study was to compare multitasking performance in cognitively intact older adults with and without DM and explore its relationship to measures of gait and functional ability.METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional analysis of 40 individuals aged 60 and older with type 2 DM and a matched group of 40 cognitively intact older adults without DM. Multitasking was examined via the ambulatory Walking and Remembering Test (WART) and seated Pursuit Rotor Test (PRT). Self-selected normal and fast walking speed and stride length variability were quantitatively measured, and self-reported functional ability was assessed via the Late Life Function and Disability Index (LLFDI).RESULTS: Participants with DM walked slower and took more steps off path when multitasking during the WART. No between-group differences in multitasking performance were observed on the PRT. Multitasking performance demonstrated little correlation with gait and functional ability in either group.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Older adults with DM appear to perform poorly on an ambulatory measure of multitasking. However, we analyzed a relatively small, homogenous sample of older adults with and without type 2 DM and factors such as peripheral neuropathy and the use of multiple comparisons complicate interpretation of the data. Future research should explore the interactions between multitasking and safety, fall risk, and function in this vulnerable population. Clinicians should recognize that an array of factors may contribute to gait and physical dysfunction in older adults with type 2 diabetes, and be prepared to assess and intervene appropriately. labels: #Aged#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Disability Evaluation#Female#Gait#Humans#Male#Memory#Task Performance and Analysis'
b'We use a 575,000-subject, 28-day experiment to investigate monetary policy in a virtual setting. The experiment tests the effect of virtual currency endowments on player retention and virtual currency demand. An increase in endowments of a virtual currency should lower the demand for the currency in the short run. However, in the long run, we would expect money demand to rise in response to inflation in the virtual world. We test for this behavior in a virtual field experiment in the football management game Top11. 575,000 players were selected at random and allocated to different "shards" or versions of the world. The shards differed only in terms of the initial money endowment offered to new players. Money demand was observed for 28 days as players used real money to purchase additional virtual currency. The results indicate that player money purchases were significantly higher in the shards where higher endowments were given. This suggests that a positive change in the money supply in a virtual context leads to inflation and increased money demand, and does so much more quickly than in real-world economies. Differences between virtual and real currency behavior will become more interesting as virtual currency becomes a bigger part of the real economy. labels: #Behavior#Financial Management#Humans#Inflation, Economic#Internet#Research#User-Computer Interface'
b"Methylation of cytosine at the 5 position of the pyrimidine ring is the most prevalent and significant epigenetic modifications in mammalian DNA. The CpG methylation level shows a bimodal distribution but the bimodality can be overestimated due to the heterogeneity of per-base depth. Here, we developed an algorithm to eliminate the effect of per-base depth inhomogeneity on the bimodality and obtained a random CpG methylation distribution. By quantifying the deviation of the observed methylation distribution and the random one using the information formula, we find that in tetranucleotides 5'-N5CGN3-3' (N5, N3 = A, C, G or T), GCGN3 and CCGN3 show less apparent deviation than ACGN3 and TCGN3, indicating that GCGN3 and CCGN3 are less variant in their level of methylation. The methylation variation of N5CGN3 are conserved among different cells, tissues and species, implying common features in the mechanisms of methylation and demethylation, presumably mediated by DNMTs and TETs in mammalians, respectively. Sequence dependence of DNA methylation variation also relates to gene regulatory and promotes the reexamination of the role of DNA sequence in fundamental biological processes. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Brain#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 1#Conserved Sequence#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Humans#Mammals#Mice#Nucleotides#Organ Specificity#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Species Specificity"
b'BACKGROUND: Muscle atrophy has been explained by an anabolic resistance following food intake and an increase of dietary protein intake is recommended. To be optimal, a dietary protein has to be effective not only to initiate but also to prolong a muscle anabolic response in a catabolic state. To our knowledge, whether or not a dairy or a dairy/plant protein blend fulfills these criterions is unknown in a muscle wasting situation.OBJECTIVE: Our aim was, in a control and a catabolic state, to measure continuously muscle anabolism in term of intensity and duration in response to a meal containing casein (CAS), whey (WHEY) or a whey/ plant protein blend (BLEND) and to evaluate the best protein source to elicit the best post prandial anabolism according to the physio-pathological state.METHODS: Adult male Yucatan mini pigs were infused with U-13C-Phenylalanine and fed either CAS, WHEY or BLEND. A catabolic state was induced by a glucocorticoid treatment for 8 days (DEX). Muscle protein synthesis, proteolysis and balance were measured with the hind limb arterio-venous differences technique. Repeated time variance analysis were used to assess significant differences.RESULTS: In a catabolic situation, whey proteins were able to initiate muscle anabolism which remained transient in contrast to the stimulated muscle protein accretion with WHEY, CAS or BLEND in healthy conditions. Despite the same leucine intake compared to WHEY, BLEND did not restore a positive protein balance in DEX animals.CONCLUSIONS: Even with WHEY, the duration of the anabolic response was not optimal and has to be improved in a catabolic state. The use of BLEND remained of lower efficiency even at same leucine intake than whey. labels: #Anabolic Agents#Animals#Caseins#Eating#Glucocorticoids#Leucine#Metabolism#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Atrophy#Postprandial Period#Swine#Swine, Miniature#Vegetable Proteins#Whey'
b'One of the major players in the pathophysiology of cerebral ischemia is disrupted homeostasis of glutamatergic neurotransmission, resulting in elevated extracellular glutamate (Glu) concentrations and excitotoxicity-related cell death. In the brain, Glu concentrations are regulated by Glu transporters, including Glu transporter-1 (GLT-1) and cystine/Glu antiporter (system xc-). Modulation of these transporters by administration of ceftriaxone (CEF, 200 mg/kg, i.p.) or N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 150 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 days before focal cerebral ischemia may induce brain tolerance to ischemia by significantly limiting stroke-related damage and normalizing Glu concentrations. In the present study, focal cerebral ischemia was induced by 90-minute middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). We compared the effects of CEF and NAC pretreatment on Glu concentrations in extracellular fluid and cellular-specific expression of GLT-1 and xCT with the effects of two reference preconditioning methods, namely, ischemic preconditioning and chemical preconditioning in rats. Both CEF and NAC significantly reduced Glu levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus during focal cerebral ischemia, and this decrease was comparable with the Glu level achieved with the reference preconditioning strategies. The results of immunofluorescence staining of GLT-1 and xCT on astrocytes, neurons and microglia accounted for the observed changes in extracellular Glu levels to a certain extent. Briefly, after MCAO, the expression of GLT-1 on astrocytes decreased, but pretreatment with CEF seemed to prevent this downregulation. In addition, every intervention used in this study seemed to reduce xCT expression on astrocytes and neurons. The results of this study indicate that modulation of Glu transporter expression may restore Glu homeostasis. Moreover, our results suggest that CEF and NAC may induce brain tolerance to ischemia by influencing GLT-1 and system xc- expression levels. These transporters are presumably good targets for the development of novel therapies for brain ischemia. labels: #Acetylcysteine#Amino Acid Transport Systems, Acidic#Animals#Astrocytes#Brain Ischemia#Ceftriaxone#Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter 2#Frontal Lobe#Gene Expression Regulation#Glutamic Acid#Hippocampus#Humans#Infarction, Middle Cerebral Artery#Rats#Synaptic Transmission'
b'For clinicians, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a nightmare pathogen that is one of the top three causes of opportunistic human infections. Therapy of P. aeruginosa infections is complicated due to its natural high intrinsic resistance to antibiotics. Active efflux and decreased uptake of drugs due to cell wall/membrane permeability appear to be important issues in the acquired antibiotic tolerance mechanisms. Bacterial cell wall biosynthesis enzymes have been shown to be essential for pathogenicity of Gram-negative bacteria. However, the role of these targets in virulence has not been identified in P. aeruginosa. Here, we report knockout (k.o) mutants of six cell wall biosynthesis targets (murA, PA4450; murD, PA4414; murF, PA4416; ppiB, PA1793; rmlA, PA5163; waaA, PA4988) in P. aeruginosa PAO1, and characterized these in order to find out whether these genes and their products contribute to pathogenicity and virulence of P. aeruginosa. Except waaA k.o, deletion of cell wall biosynthesis targets significantly reduced growth rate in minimal medium compared to the parent strain. The k.o mutants showed exciting changes in cell morphology and colonial architectures. Remarkably, \xce\x94murF cells became grossly enlarged. Moreover, the mutants were also attenuated in vivo in a mouse infection model except \xce\x94murF and \xce\x94waaA and proved to be more sensitive to macrophage-mediated killing than the wild-type strain. Interestingly, the deletion of the murA gene resulted in loss of virulence activity in mice, and the virulence was restored in a plant model by unknown mechanism. This study demonstrates that cell wall targets contribute significantly to intracellular survival, in vivo growth, and pathogenesis of P. aeruginosa. In conclusion, these findings establish a link between cell wall targets and virulence of P. aeruginosa and thus may lead to development of novel drugs for the treatment of P. aeruginosa infection. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Biosynthetic Pathways#Cell Wall#Colony Count, Microbial#DNA, Bacterial#Extracellular Space#Female#Gene Knockdown Techniques#Genes, Bacterial#Genetic Vectors#Lettuce#Lipopolysaccharides#Lung#Macrophages#Mice#Models, Biological#Mutation#Peptidoglycan#Plant Diseases#Pseudomonas Infections#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#Respiratory Tract Diseases#Virulence'
b'OBJECTIVES: To investigate the obstetric and psychological characteristics of women who opt to use epidural analgesia (EDA) during labour and the impact of participating in labour preparation courses on women\'s decisions to use EDA.DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.SETTING: Akershus University Hospital, Norway.POPULATION: 2596 women with singleton pregnancies and intended vaginal delivery.METHODS: Data were collected using two self-completed questionnaires at pregnancy weeks 17 and 32. Fear of childbirth was assessed by the Wijma Delivery Expectancy Questionnaire (W-DEQ). Symptoms of anxiety were measured by the Hopkins Symptom Check List (SCL-25) and depression by the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS). Obstetric and socio-demographic information was retrieved from birth records at the maternity ward.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Preference for EDA was indicated by the questionnaire item "I would prefer an epidural regardless" on a 4-point scale (1 = highly agree, 4 = highly disagree) at pregnancy week 32.RESULTS: Twenty-one percent of the women (540/2596) answered that they would choose EDA as the only alternative method of analgesia during labour. Counselling for fear of childbirth [OR 3.23 (95%CI 2.12; 4.92)] and W-DEQ sum score \xe2\x89\xa5 85 [OR 2.95 (95%CI 2.06; 4.23)]were significantly (p<0.001) associated with choice of EDA. Participation in labour preparation courses was significantly (p = 0.008) associated with a reduction of intended use of EDA during labour [OR 0.67 (95%CI 0.49; 0.90)].CONCLUSION: Fear of childbirth is significantly associated with women\'s choice of EDA during labour. On the other hand, women that participate in labour preparation courses would rather consider other methods of analgesia during labour. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Epidural#Cohort Studies#Confidence Intervals#Delivery, Obstetric#Female#Humans#Labor, Obstetric#Mental Health#Odds Ratio#Parity#Pregnancy'
b"Prior studies showed that scientists' professional networks contribute to research productivity, but little work has examined what factors predict the formation of professional networks. This study sought to 1) examine what factors predict the formation of international ties between faculty and graduate students and 2) identify how these international ties would affect publication productivity in three East Asian countries. Face-to-face surveys and in-depth semi-structured interviews were conducted with a sample of faculty and doctoral students in life sciences at 10 research institutions in Japan, Singapore, and Taiwan. Our final sample consisted of 290 respondents (84 faculty and 206 doctoral students) and 1,435 network members. We used egocentric social network analysis to examine the structure of international ties and how they relate to research productivity. Our findings suggest that overseas graduate training can be a key factor in graduate students' development of international ties in these countries. Those with a higher proportion of international ties in their professional networks were likely to have published more papers and written more manuscripts. For faculty, international ties did not affect the number of manuscripts written or of papers published, but did correlate with an increase in publishing in top journals. The networks we examined were identified by asking study participants with whom they discuss their research. Because the relationships may not appear in explicit co-authorship networks, these networks were not officially recorded elsewhere. This study sheds light on the relationships of these invisible support networks to researcher productivity. labels: #Adult#Aged#Biological Science Disciplines#Efficiency#Faculty#Female#Humans#Internationality#Japan#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multilevel Analysis#Research Personnel#Singapore#Social Support#Students#Taiwan#Young Adult"
b'The mechanism of action of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) is mainly attributed to the inhibition of the deacetylase catalytic activity for their histone substrates. In this study, we analyzed the abundance of class I HDACs in the cytosolic, nuclear soluble and chromatin bound cellular fractions in breast cancer cells after HDACi treatment. We found that potent N-hydroxy propenamide-based HDACi induced a concentration dependent decrease in the HDAC1 associated with chromatin and a lasting concomitant increase in cytoplasmic HDAC1 while maintaining total protein expression. No such change occurred with HDAC2 or 8, however, an increase in cytoplasmic non-phosphorylated HDAC3 was also observed. The subcellular re-equilibration of HDAC1 was subsequent to the accumulation of acetylated histones and might be cell cycle dependent. This study suggests that the biological activity of a subset of N-hydroxy propenamide-based HDACi may stem from direct competition with histone substrates of HDACs as well as from spatial separation from their substrates in the nucleus and/or change in post-translational modification status of HDACs. labels: #Acetylation#Cytosol#Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors#Histone Deacetylases#Histones#Humans#MCF-7 Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Mitogens#Models, Biological#Phosphorylation#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Protein Transport#Subcellular Fractions'
b'Objectives: Determine performance of the cobas human papillomavirus (HPV) test for triage of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASC-US) in SurePath.Methods: Women presenting for routine screening had cervical specimens collected in SurePath and specimen transport medium (STM); those with ASC-US cytology underwent colposcopy. Performance of cobas HPV in SurePath specimens that had undergone a preanalytic procedure to reverse possible cross-linking of HPV DNA was compared with Hybrid Capture 2 (hc2) specimens in STM.Results: Among 856 women, HPV prevalence was 45.8%; HPV 16 and HPV 18 prevalences were lower than expected in the 21- to 29-year-old group in this highly vaccinated population. cobas HPV performance in SurePath was comparable to hc2 in STM. Sensitivity and specificity for detection of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or worse were 87.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 71.9%-95.2%) and 55.5% (95% CI, 52.1%-58.9%) for cobas and 85.3% (95% CI, 69.9%-93.6%) and 54.7% (95% CI, 51.4%-57.9%) for hc2. Sensitivity was negatively affected by random biopsies performed at colposcopy; comparable sensitivities were achieved in the nonvaccinated and vaccinated populations with disease determined by directed biopsy only.Conclusions: Performance of cobas HPV for ASC-US triage in pretreated SurePath specimens meets criteria for validation. Preliminary data indicate reliable performance of HPV testing in a highly vaccinated population. labels: #Adult#Atypical Squamous Cells of the Cervix#Cytodiagnosis#Female#Humans#Middle Aged#Papillomaviridae#Papillomavirus Infections#Prevalence#Sensitivity and Specificity#Tissue Fixation#Triage#Young Adult'
b'Development of a universal influenza vaccine is a research priority for the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) at the National Institutes of Health. To facilitate this goal, we convened a workshop in Rockville, Maryland to identify knowledge gaps in influenza research and develop strategies to fill them. labels: #Animals#Disease Models, Animal#Ferrets#Humans#Influenza A virus#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human#National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (U.S.)#United States'
b'Distinct molecular pathways govern the differentiation of CD8+effector T\xc2\xa0cells into memory or exhausted T\xc2\xa0cells during acute and chronic viral infection, but these are not well studied in humans. Here, we employed an integrative systems immunology approach to identify transcriptional commonalities and differences between virus-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cells from patients with persistent and spontaneously resolving hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection during the acute phase. We observed dysregulation of metabolic processes during early persistent infection that was linked to changes in expression of genes related to nucleosomal regulation of transcription, T\xc2\xa0cell differentiation, and the inflammatory response and correlated with subject age, sex, and the presence of HCV-specific CD4+T\xc2\xa0cell populations. These early changes in HCV-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cell transcription preceded the overt establishment of T\xc2\xa0cell exhaustion, making this signature a prime target in the search for the regulatory origins of T\xc2\xa0cell dysfunction in chronic viral infection. labels: #Acute Disease#Adaptive Immunity#Adult#Aged#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cluster Analysis#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Regulatory Networks#Genetic Variation#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Time Factors#Transcription, Genetic#Young Adult'
b'In the Drosophila immune response, bacterial derived diaminopimelic acid-type peptidoglycan binds the receptors PGRP-LC and PGRP-LE, which through interaction with the adaptor protein Imd leads to activation of the NF-\xce\xbaB homolog Relish and robust antimicrobial peptide gene expression. PGRP-LC, PGRP-LE, and Imd each contain a motif with some resemblance to the RIP Homotypic Interaction Motif (RHIM), a domain found in mammalian RIPK proteins forming functional amyloids during necroptosis. Here we found that despite sequence divergence, these Drosophila cryptic RHIMs formed amyloid fibrils in\xc2\xa0vitro and in cells. Amyloid formation was required for signaling downstream of Imd, and in contrast to the mammalian RHIMs, was not associated with cell death. Furthermore, amyloid formation constituted a regulatable step and could be inhibited by Pirk, an endogenous feedback regulator of this pathway. Thus, diverse sequence motifs are capable of forming amyloidal signaling platforms, and the formation of these platforms may present a regulatory point in multiple biological processes. labels: #Amino Acid Motifs#Amino Acid Sequence#Amyloid#Animals#Binding Sites#Carrier Proteins#Cell Line#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Female#Gene Expression#Male#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Immunological#Mutation#NF-kappa B#Receptor-Interacting Protein Serine-Threonine Kinases#Receptors, Cell Surface#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Signal Transduction'
b'The classical model of hematopoiesis established in the mouse postulates that lymphoid cells originate from a founder population of common lymphoid progenitors. Here, using a modeling approach in humanized mice, we showed that human lymphoid development stemmed from distinct populations of CD127-and CD127+early lymphoid progenitors (ELPs). Combining molecular analyses with in\xc2\xa0vitro and in\xc2\xa0vivo functional assays, we demonstrated that CD127-and CD127+ELPs emerged independently from lympho-mono-dendritic progenitors, responded differently to Notch1 signals, underwent divergent modes of lineage restriction, and displayed both common and specific differentiation potentials. Whereas CD127-ELPs comprised precursors of T\xc2\xa0cells, marginal zone B\xc2\xa0cells, and natural killer (NK) and innate lymphoid cells (ILCs), CD127+ELPs supported production of all NK cell, ILC, and B cell populations but lacked T potential. On the basis of these results, we propose a "two-family" model of human lymphoid development that differs from the prevailing model of hematopoiesis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Animals#B-Lymphocytes#Cell Differentiation#Cell Lineage#Cells, Cultured#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Interleukin Receptor Common gamma Subunit#Interleukin-7 Receptor alpha Subunit#Killer Cells, Natural#Lymphoid Progenitor Cells#Lymphopoiesis#Male#Mice, Inbred NOD#Mice, Knockout#Mice, SCID#Middle Aged#Stem Cell Transplantation#T-Lymphocytes#Transplantation, Heterologous#Young Adult'
b'A heterogeneous mixture of lipids called oxPAPC, derived from dying cells, can hyperactivate dendritic cells (DCs) but not macrophages. Hyperactive DCs are defined by their ability to release interleukin-1 (IL-1) while maintaining cell viability, endowing these cells with potent aptitude to stimulate adaptive immunity. Herein, we found that the bacterial lipopolysaccharide receptor CD14 captured extracellular oxPAPC and delivered these lipids into the cell to promote inflammasome-dependent DC hyperactivation. Notably, we identified two specific components within the oxPAPC mixture that hyperactivated macrophages, allowing these cells to release IL-1 for several days, by a CD14-dependent process. In murine models of sepsis, conditions that promoted cell hyperactivation resulted in inflammation but not lethality. Thus, multiple phagocytes are capable of hyperactivation in response to oxPAPC, with CD14 acting as the earliest regulator in this process, serving to capture and transport these lipids to promote inflammatory cell fate decisions. labels: #Adaptive Immunity#Animals#Blotting, Western#Cell Line#Cell Survival#Dendritic Cells#Endocytosis#Female#Flow Cytometry#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inflammasomes#Interleukin-1#Lipopolysaccharide Receptors#Lipopolysaccharides#Macrophages#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Phagocytes#Phosphatidylcholines'
b'Gastro-intestinal helminth infections trigger the release of interleukin-33 (IL-33), which induces type-2 helper T\xc2\xa0cells (Th2 cells) at the site of infection to produce IL-13, thereby contributing to host resistance in a T\xc2\xa0cell receptor (TCR)-independent manner. Here, we show that, as a prerequisite for IL-33-induced IL-13 secretion, Th2 cells required the expression of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and of its ligand, amphiregulin, for the formation of a signaling complex between T1/ST2 (the IL-33R) and EGFR. This shared signaling complex allowed IL-33 to induce the EGFR-mediated activation of the MAP-kinase signaling pathway and consequently the expression of IL-13. Lack of EGFR expression on T\xc2\xa0cells abrogated IL-13 expression in infected tissues and impaired host resistance. EGFR expression on Th2 cells was TCR-signaling dependent, and therefore, our data reveal a mechanism by which antigen presentation controls the innate effector function of Th2 cells at the site of inflammation. labels: #Amphiregulin#Animals#Cell Line#Cells, Cultured#Gene Expression#Gene Expression Profiling#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Interleukin-13#Interleukin-33#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Nematospiroides dubius#Nocardia#Nocardia Infections#Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor#Receptors, Antigen, T-Cell#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#Strongylida Infections#Th2 Cells'
b"Infection by helminth parasites is associated with amelioration of allergic reactivity, but mechanistic insights into this association are lacking. Products secreted by the mouse parasite Heligmosomoides polygyrus suppress type 2 (allergic) immune responses through interference in the interleukin-33 (IL-33) pathway. Here, we identified H.\xc2\xa0polygyrus Alarmin Release Inhibitor (HpARI), an IL-33-suppressive 26-kDa protein, containing three predicted complement control protein (CCP) modules. In\xc2\xa0vivo, recombinant HpARI abrogated IL-33, group 2 innate lymphoid cell (ILC2) and eosinophilic responses to Alternaria allergen administration, and diminished eosinophilic responses to Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, increasing parasite burden. HpARI bound directly to both mouse and human IL-33 (in the cytokine's activated state) and also to nuclear DNA via its N-terminal CCP module pair (CCP1/2), tethering active IL-33 within necrotic cells, preventing its release, and forestalling initiation of type 2 allergic responses. Thus, HpARI employs a novel molecular strategy to suppress type 2 immunity in both infection and allergy. labels: #Allergens#Alternaria#Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Blotting, Western#Eosinophils#Helminth Proteins#Host-Parasite Interactions#Humans#Immunity, Innate#Interleukin-33#Lymphocytes#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Nematospiroides dubius#Protein Binding#Receptors, Interleukin#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Strongylida Infections"
b'After traumatic injury, some cells function as detectors to sense injury and to modulate the local immune response toward a restitution phase by affecting the local cytokine milieu. Using intravital microscopy, we\xc2\xa0observed that patrolling invariant natural killer T\xc2\xa0(iNKT) cells were initially excluded from a site of hepatic injury but subsequently were strategically arrested first via self-antigens and then by cytokines, circumscribing the injured site at exactly the location where monocytes co-localized and hepatocytes proliferated. Activation of iNKT cells by self-antigens resulted in the production of interleukin-4 (IL-4) but not interferon-\xce\xb3 (IFN-\xce\xb3). This promoted increased hepatocyte proliferation, monocyte transition (from Ly6Chito Ly6Clo), and improved healing where IL-4 from iNKT cells was critical for these processes. Disruption of any of these mechanisms led to delayed wound healing. We have shown that self-antigen-driven iNKT cells function as sensors and orchestrators of the transformation from inflammation to tissue restitution for essential timely wound repair. labels: #Animals#Autoantigens#Cell Proliferation#Hepatocytes#Inflammation#Interleukin-4#Kupffer Cells#Liver#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Fluorescence, Multiphoton#Monocytes#Natural Killer T-Cells#Time Factors#Wound Healing'
b'The latent reservoir for HIV-1 in resting memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells is the major barrier to curing HIV-1 infection. Studies of HIV-1 latency have focused on regulation of viral gene expression in cells in which latent infection is established. However, it remains unclear how infection initially becomes latent. Here we described a unique set of properties of CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells undergoing effector-to-memory transition including temporary upregulation of CCR5 expression and rapid downregulation of cellular gene transcription. These cells allowed completion of steps in the HIV-1 life cycle through integration but suppressed HIV-1 gene transcription, thus allowing the establishment of latency. CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells in this stage were substantially more permissive for HIV-1 latent infection than other CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells. Establishment of latent HIV-1 infection in CD4+T could be inhibited by viral-specific CD8+T\xc2\xa0cells, a result with implications for elimination of latent HIV-1 infection by T\xc2\xa0cell-based vaccines. labels: #CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Cells, Cultured#Cellular Reprogramming#Cytokines#Female#Flow Cytometry#Gene Expression Profiling#HIV-1#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Immunologic Memory#Lymphocyte Activation#Male#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Transcription, Genetic#Virus Latency#Virus Replication'
b'Antiretroviral therapy (ART) suppresses viral replication in HIV-infected individuals but does not eliminate the reservoir of latently infected cells. Recent work identified PD-1+follicular helper T (Tfh) cells as an important cellular compartment for viral persistence. Here, using ART-treated, SIV-infected rhesus macaques, we show that CTLA-4+PD-1-memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells, which share phenotypic markers with\xc2\xa0regulatory T\xc2\xa0cells, were enriched in SIV DNA in blood, lymph nodes (LN), spleen, and gut, and contained replication-competent and infectious virus. In contrast to PD-1+Tfh cells, SIV-enriched CTLA-4+PD-1-CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells were found outside the B cell follicle of the LN, predicted the size of the persistent viral reservoir during ART, and significantly increased their contribution to the SIV reservoir with prolonged ART-mediated viral suppression. We have shown that CTLA-4+PD-1-memory CD4+T\xc2\xa0cells are a previously unrecognized component of the SIV and HIV reservoir that should be therapeutically targeted for a functional HIV-1 cure. labels: #Animals#Anti-Retroviral Agents#CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes#CTLA-4 Antigen#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Immunologic Memory#In Situ Hybridization#Lymph Nodes#Macaca mulatta#Microscopy, Confocal#Programmed Cell Death 1 Receptor#Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome#Simian Immunodeficiency Virus#T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory'
b'Inhibitors of the receptor tyrosine kinase c-MET are currently used in the clinic to target oncogenic signaling in tumor cells. We found that concomitant c-MET inhibition promoted adoptive T\xc2\xa0cell transfer and checkpoint immunotherapies in murine cancer models by increasing effector T\xc2\xa0cell infiltration in tumors. This therapeutic effect was independent of\xc2\xa0tumor cell-intrinsic c-MET dependence. Mechanistically, c-MET inhibition impaired the reactive mobilization and recruitment of neutrophils into tumors and draining lymph nodes in response to cytotoxic immunotherapies. In the absence of c-MET inhibition,\xc2\xa0neutrophils recruited to T\xc2\xa0cell-inflamed microenvironments rapidly acquired immunosuppressive properties, restraining T\xc2\xa0cell expansion and effector functions. In cancer patients, high serum levels of the c-MET ligand HGF correlated with increasing neutrophil counts and poor responses to checkpoint blockade therapies. Our findings reveal a role for the\xc2\xa0HGF/c-MET pathway in neutrophil recruitment and function and suggest that c-MET inhibitor co-treatment may improve responses to cancer immunotherapy in settings beyond c-MET-dependent tumors. labels: #Animals#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Immunotherapy#Interferon-gamma#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Mice, Transgenic#Neoplasms, Experimental#Neutrophils#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met#Signal Transduction#T-Lymphocytes#Tumor Microenvironment'
b'According to the federal statistical office, cardiovascular disorders are still the leading cause of death in Germany. Chronic ischemic heart disease and acute myocardial infarction are the most important subgroups. In addition to evidence-based and personalized medicine, in recent years gender medicine has been established as an independent research area. Gender differences are evident in the majority of prevalent diseases, including cardiovascular disorders. The following article provides an insight into the diagnostically and therapeutically specific aspects of coronary heart disease in men and women. labels: #Adult#Antibodies, Antiphospholipid#Contraceptives, Oral#Coronary Disease#Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2#Dyslipidemias#Estrogen Replacement Therapy#Female#Humans#Hypertension#Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic#Male#Menopause, Premature#Middle Aged#Overweight#Pre-Eclampsia#Pregnancy#Psychology#Risk Factors#Sex Factors#Smoking'
b'Patients with microvascular angina are characterized by angina pectoris with proof of myocardial ischemia in the absence of any relevant epicardial stenosis and without myocardial disease (type 1 coronary microvascular dysfunction according to Crea and Camici). Structural and functional alterations of the coronary microvessels (diameter<\xe2\x80\x8a500\xe2\x80\x8a\xc2\xb5m) are the reason for this phenomenon. Frequently such alterations are associated with cardiovascular risk factors. Patients with angina pectoris without epicardial stenoses represent for 10\xe2\x80\x8a-\xe2\x80\x8a50\xe2\x80\x8a% of all patients undergoing coronary angiography depending on the clinical presentation. Diagnostic approaches include non-invasive (e.\xe2\x80\x8ag. combination of coronary CT-angiography and positron emission tomography/echo Doppler-based coronary flow reserve measurements) as well as invasive procedures (coronary flow reserve measurements in response to adenosine, intracoronary acetylcholine testing). Pharmacological treatment of these patients is often challenging and should be based on the characterization of the underlying mechanisms. Moreover, strict risk factor control and individually titrated combinations of antianginal substances (e.\xe2\x80\x8ag. beta blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, ranolazine, ivabradine etc.) are recommended. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Calcium Channel Blockers#Cardiovascular Agents#Coronary Vasospasm#Coronary Vessels#Humans#Implantable Neurostimulators#Microvascular Angina#Myocardial Ischemia#Physical Conditioning, Human#Risk Factors#Sodium Channel Blockers'
b"An invasive measurement of the fractional flow reserve (FFR) allows the valuation of the individual risk for ischemic events in patients with coronary artery disease. Therefore, FFR has become a valuable tool to guide coronary revascularisations. The cut-off value \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x8a0.80 has been validated in many different subsets of patients. However, FFR values describe a risk continuum with an inverse correlation between FFR value and the risk of events. So FFR should always be interpreted regarding the patient's clinical context, especially in patients with a high risk for rapid disease progression. As such, patients with diabetes mellitus and deferred revascularisation based on FFR>\xe2\x80\x8a0.80 had worse clinical outcomes compared to patients without diabetes. In addition, FFR shows methodical deficiencies concerning the quantification of serial stenoses as well as the valuation of residual ischemia of the culprit vessel early after myocardial infarction. This article highlights both the strengths and the pitfalls in the use and interpretation of FFR. labels: #Adenosine#Angina, Stable#Contraindications#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Bypass#Coronary Disease#Coronary Stenosis#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Diabetes Complications#Fractional Flow Reserve, Myocardial#Humans#Myocardial Infarction#Myocardial Ischemia#Myocardial Revascularization#Reference Values#Risk Assessment#Stents#Ultrasonography, Interventional"
b'The need for coronary computed tomography (CTA) is still a matter of discussion. Areas in which CTA can replace invasive coronary angiography are rare. More data is needed to precise in which clinical settings CTA might be beneficial. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Disease#Humans'
b'The guidelines on the management of stable coronary artery disease (SCAD) recommend the use of coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) in the process of diagnosing coronary artery disease in patients with low intermediate pre-test probability for SCAD. Particularly in cases where stress electrocardiogram or stress imaging provides unclear results, a computed tomographic examination can be considered as a reliable alternative to invasive coronary angiography. Due to its high negative predictive value, coronary CTA can provide accurate information on the presence of coronary artery stenosis and thus coronary artery disease can be reliably excluded without the risks associated with invasive procedures. Similarly, patients with unstable angina or chest pain without typical alterations in the electrocardiogram and without an elevation of troponin can also benefit from a non-invasive coronary CTA-based diagnostics as first approach as it allows ruling out the presence of disease or planning an intervention without the risks associated with a potentially inappropriate invasive approach. labels: #Computed Tomography Angiography#Coronary Angiography#Coronary Artery Disease#Humans'
b'History and clinical findings\xe2\x80\x82We report on three patients suffering from skin and soft tissue infections of the legs due to toxigenic Corynebacterium ulcerans strains. In all three patients, there was a predisposition due to chronic diseases. Three patients had domestic animals (cat, dog) in their households.Investigations and diagnosis\xe2\x80\x82A mixed bacterial flora including Corynebacterium ulcerans was found in wound swab samples. Diphtheric toxin was produced by the Corynebacterium ulcerans strains in all three cases.Treatment and course\xe2\x80\x82In all three patients, successful handling of the skin and soft tissue infections was possible by combining local treatment with antibiotics. Diphtheria antitoxin was not administered in any case.Conclusion\xe2\x80\x82Based on a review of the recent literature pathogenesis, clinical symptoms and signs, diagnostics and therapy of skin and soft tissue infections due to Corynebacterium ulcerans are discussed. Corynebacterium ulcerans should be considered as a potential cause of severe skin and soft tissue infections. Occupational or domestic animal contacts should be evaluated. labels: #Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Animals, Domestic#Bacterial Toxins#Corynebacterium#Corynebacterium Infections#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Skin Diseases, Bacterial#Soft Tissue Infections'
b'Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death globally. Poor diet constitutes a key factor in the initiation and progression of cardiovascular disease and has become the leading risk factor for disability and death worldwide. Therefore, addressing suboptimal nutrition is of key prognostic relevance in primary and secondary prevention of metabolic vascular syndrome.Metabolic vascular syndrome is a multidimensional network of acquired cardiometabolic risk factors closely related to insulin resistance (IR) and concomitant hyperinsulinemia. IR, being the underlying cause of metabolic vascular syndrome and certain types of cancer, should attract the attention of every clinician. As changes in lipoprotein metabolism are one of the earliest indicators of metabolic dysfunction, a relevant biomarker for identifying individuals with IR is the TAG/HDL-C ratio.IR - and concomitant metabolic vascular risk - can be effectively treated by lifestyle intervention. If IR is present, dietary carbohydrate restriction has consistently been shown to be superior to dietary fat restriction in reversing metabolic dysfunction. The beneficial effects of carbohydrate restricted diets on metabolic vascular risk are independent of BMI - diet quality therefore confers patient benefit beyond weight reduction.The effect of single nutrients on isolated lipid surrogate markers such as LDL-C does not capture their global effect on metabolic vascular risk.Targeting IR with a low glycemic load, real food diet will reduce overall energy density and will improve all risk factors of metabolic vascular syndrome. In particular, replacing refined carbohydrates with healthy fats in the context of a Mediterranean style-, low carbohydrate and calorie-unrestricted dietary pattern has been shown to significantly reduce burden of metabolic vascular disease. labels: #Cardiovascular Diseases#Diet#Dietary Carbohydrates#Dietary Fats, Unsaturated#Dietary Proteins#Feeding Behavior#Fish Products#Humans#Insulin Resistance#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Middle Aged#Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease#Overweight#Risk Factors'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine whether being upright in the second stage of labour in nulliparous women with a low dose epidural increases the chance of spontaneous vaginal birth compared with lying down.Design\xc2\xa0Multicentre pragmatic individually randomised controlled trial.Setting\xc2\xa041 UK hospital labour wards.Participants\xc2\xa03093 nulliparous women aged 16 or older, at term with a singleton cephalic presentation and in the second stage of labour with epidural analgesia.Interventions\xc2\xa0Women were allocated to an upright or lying down position, using a secure web based randomisation service, stratified by centre, with no masking of participants or clinicians to the trial interventions.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0The primary outcome was spontaneous vaginal birth. Women were analysed in the groups into which they were randomly allocated, regardless of position recorded at any time during the second stage of labour (excluding women with no valid consent, who withdrew, or who did not reach second stage before delivery). Secondary outcomes included mode of birth, perineal trauma, infant Apgar score<4 at five minutes, admission to a neonatal unit, and longer term included maternal physical and psychological health, incontinence, and infant gross developmental delay.Results\xc2\xa0Between 4 October 2010 and 31 January 2014, 3236 women were randomised and 3093 (95.6%) included in the primary analysis (1556 in the upright group and 1537 in the lying down group). Significantly fewer spontaneous vaginal births occurred in women in the upright group: 35.2% (548/1556) compared with 41.1% (632/1537) in the lying down group (adjusted risk ratio 0.86, 95% confidence interval 0.78 to 0.94). This represents a 5.9% absolute increase in the chance of spontaneous vaginal birth in the lying down group (number needed to treat 17, 95% confidence interval 11 to 40). No evidence of differences was found for most of the secondary maternal, neonatal, or longer term outcomes including instrumental vaginal delivery (adjusted risk ratio 1.08, 99% confidence interval 0.99 to 1.18), obstetric anal sphincter injury (1.27, 0.88 to 1.84), infant Apgar score<4 at five minutes (0.66, 0.06 to 6.88), and maternal faecal incontinence at one year (1.18, 0.61 to 2.28).Conclusions\xc2\xa0Evidence shows that lying down in the second stage of labour results in more spontaneous vaginal births in nulliparous women with epidural analgesia, with no apparent disadvantages in relation to short or longer term outcomes for mother or baby.Trial registration\xc2\xa0Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN35706297. labels: #Adult#Analgesia, Obstetrical#Anesthesia, Epidural#Anesthetics#Apgar Score#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Labor Stage, Second#Labor, Obstetric#Long Term Adverse Effects#Obstetric Labor Complications#Parity#Patient Positioning#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#United Kingdom'
b'Objectives\xc2\xa0To examine temporal trends in sex and age specific incidence of self harm in children and adolescents, clinical management patterns, and risk of cause specific mortality following an index self harm episode at a young age.Design\xc2\xa0Population based cohort study.Setting\xc2\xa0UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink-electronic health records from 647 general practices, with practice level deprivation measured ecologically using the index of multiple deprivation. Patients from eligible English practices were linked to hospital episode statistics (HES) and Office for National Statistics (ONS) mortality records.Participants\xc2\xa0For the descriptive analytical phases we examined data pertaining to 16\xe2\x80\x89912 patients aged 10-19 who harmed themselves during 2001-14. For analysis of cause specific mortality following self harm, 8638 patients eligible for HES and ONS linkage were matched by age, sex, and general practice with up to 20 unaffected children and adolescents (n=170\xe2\x80\x89274).Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0In the first phase, temporal trends in sex and age specific annual incidence were examined. In the second phase, clinical management was assessed according to the likelihood of referral to mental health services and psychotropic drug prescribing. In the third phase, relative risks of all cause mortality, unnatural death (including suicide and accidental death), and fatal acute alcohol or drug poisoning were estimated as hazard ratios derived from stratified Cox proportional hazards models for the self harm cohort versus the matched unaffected comparison cohort.Results\xc2\xa0The annual incidence of self harm was observed to increase in girls (37.4 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000) compared with boys (12.3 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000), and a sharp 68% increase occurred among girls aged 13-16, from 45.9 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000 in 2011 to 77.0 per 10\xe2\x80\x89000 in 2014. Referrals within 12 months of the index self harm episode were 23% less likely for young patients registered at the most socially deprived practices, even though incidences were considerably higher in these localities. Children and adolescents who harmed themselves were approximately nine times more likely to die unnaturally during follow-up, with especially noticeable increases in risks of suicide (deprivation adjusted hazard ratio 17.5, 95% confidence interval 7.6 to 40.5) and fatal acute alcohol or drug poisoning (34.3, 10.2 to 115.7).Conclusions\xc2\xa0Gaining a better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for the recent apparent increase in the incidence of self harm among early-mid teenage girls, and coordinated initiatives to tackle health inequalities in the provision of services to distressed children and adolescents, represent urgent priorities for multiple public agencies. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Mental Health Services#Patient Care Management#Primary Health Care#Proportional Hazards Models#Psychotropic Drugs#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Self-Injurious Behavior#Sex Factors#Suicide#United Kingdom'
b'BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Congenital heart disease (CHD) is common in trisomy 13 (T13) and trisomy 18 (T18), but surgical repair has not been offered in most centers. Data on outcomes of congenital heart surgery (CHS) for T13 and T18 are lacking. We sought to determine the impact of CHS on in-hospital mortality in T13 and T18.METHODS: Data from the 2004 to 2015 Pediatric Health Information System database were used to identify inpatients with T13 or T18 and CHD. Data were restricted to newborns with T13 or T18 admitted at \xe2\x89\xa414 days of age. Hospital readmissions were examined to analyze longer-term in-hospital mortality. In-hospital mortality and length of stay were compared between infants with and without CHD and with and without CHS.RESULTS: The study cohort included 1020 infants with T18 and 648 infants with T13. CHD was present in 91% of infants with T18 and 86% of infants with T13. CHS was performed in 7% of each group. In-hospital mortality was decreased in those who underwent CHS (64% lower in T18 [P<.001]; 45% lower in T13 [P= .003]) and remained decreased throughout the 24 months of follow-up. In-hospital mortality was decreased in infants with higher weight, female sex, and older age at admission.CONCLUSIONS: CHS is associated with decreased in-hospital mortality in T18 and T13. These results suggest CHS may be beneficial in select cases. labels: #Cardiac Surgical Procedures#Chromosome Disorders#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 13#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 18#Cohort Studies#Female#Heart Defects, Congenital#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male#Retrospective Studies#Trisomy#Trisomy 13 Syndrome#Trisomy 18 Syndrome'
b'OBJECTIVES: Ethmoid punch sinusotomy (EPS) is a feasible treatment for ethmoid sinusitis in a subset of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) patients per a recent report. This adjunctive work investigates the technical characteristics of EPS and determines if EPS measurably alters the topical delivery of irrigant into the ethmoid sinuses in a cadaveric model.METHODS: The sinonasal cavities of 10 human cadaver heads were irrigated with a solution containing methylene blue and radio-opaque contrast prior to and following EPS. Procedural characteristics and irrigant distribution were assessed by endoscopy and computed tomography.RESULTS: Forty EPS procedures were performed through the ethmoid bulla and basal lamella. Compared to controls, EPS enhanced dye distribution into the anterior (90% vs 35%, P<.004) and posterior (90% vs 35%, P<.002) ethmoid sinuses, representing a 157% increase for each of these sites. Contrast was detected in a higher proportion of anterior (65% vs 5%, P<.001) and posterior (60% vs 0%, P<.001) ethmoid sinuses. Endoscopically guided catheter instillation of contrast through the EPS sites achieved radiotracer distribution throughout the ethmoid complex.CONCLUSIONS: Ethmoid punch sinusotomy sites can be reliably created via micro-minimally invasive procedures. Ethmoid punch sinusotomy improves irrigant delivery to the ethmoid sinuses, providing mechanistic understanding for the clinical outcomes observed in CRS patients. labels: #Cadaver#Endoscopy#Ethmoid Sinus#Humans#Rhinitis#Sinusitis#Therapeutic Irrigation#Tomography, X-Ray Computed'
b'BACKGROUND: Omphalocele is a congenital midline ventral body wall defect that can exist as isolated malformation or as part of a syndrome. It can be considered one of the major and most frequent clinical manifestation of Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome (BWS) in case of loss of methylation at KCNQ1OT1: Transcription Star Site-Differentially Methylated Region (TSS-DMR) or in presence of CDKN1C mutations. The isolated form of the omphalocele accounts approximately for about the 14% of the total cases and its molecular etiology has never been fully elucidated.METHODS: Given the tight relationship with BWS, we hypothesized that the isolated form of the omphalocele could belong to the heterogeneous spectrum of the BWS associated features, representing an endophenotype with a clear genetic connection. We therefore investigated genetic and epigenetic changes affecting BWS imprinted locus at 11p15.5 imprinted region, focusing in particular on the KCNQ1OT1:TSS DMR.RESULTS: We studied 21 cases of isolated omphalocele detected during pregnancy or at birth and identified the following rare maternally inherited variants: i) the non-coding variant G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A at nucleotide 687 (NR_002728.3) at KCNQ1OT1:TSS-DMR, which alters the methylation pattern of the imprinted allele, in one patient; ii) the deletion c.624-629delGGCCCC at exon 1 of CDKN1C, with unknown clinical significance, in two unrelated cases.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these findings suggest that KCNQ1OT1:TSS-DMR could be a susceptibility locus for the isolated omphalocele. labels: #Base Sequence#Beckwith-Wiedemann Syndrome#Child, Preschool#Chromosomes, Human, Pair 11#Consanguinity#Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p57#DNA Methylation#DNA Mutational Analysis#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genomic Imprinting#Hernia, Umbilical#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Male#Mutation#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Sequence Deletion#Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid#Transcription Initiation Site'
b'BACKGROUND: Mutations in LMNA gene, encoding Lamin A/C, cause a diverse array of phenotypes, collectively referred to as laminopathies. The most common manifestation is dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), occurring in conjunction with variable skeletal muscle involvement but without involvement of the coronary arteries. Much less commonly, LMNA mutations cause progeroid syndromes, whereby an early-onset coronary artery disease (CAD) is the hallmark of the disease. We report a hitherto unreported compound cardiac phenotype, dubbed as "non-syndromic cardiac progeria", in a young patient who carried a rare pathogenic variant in the LMNA gene and developed progressive degeneration of various cardiac structures, as seen in the elderly. The phenotype resembled the progeroid syndromes, except that it was restricted to the heart and did not involve other organs.CASE PRESENTATION: The patient was a well-developed Caucasian female who presented at age 29\xc2\xa0years with an acute myocardial infarction (MI) and was found to have extensive CAD. She had none of the conventional risk factors for atherosclerosis. She underwent coronary artery bypass surgery but continued to require multiple percutaneous coronary interventions for symptomatic obstructive coronary lesions. During the course of next 10\xc2\xa0years, she developed mitral regurgitation, degenerative mitral and aortic valve diseases, atrial flutter, and progressive conduction defects. She died from progressive heart failure with predominant involvement of the right ventricle and severe tricuspid regurgitation. Cardiac phenotype in this young patient resembled degenerative cardiac diseases of the elderly and the progeroid syndromes. However, in contrast to the progeroid syndromes, the phenotype was restricted to the heart and did not involve other organs. Thus, the phenotype was dubbed as a non-syndromic cardiac progeria. Genetic screening of several cardiomyopathy genes, including LMNA, which is a causal gene for progeroid syndromes, led to identification of a very rare pathogenic p.Asp300Asn variant in the LMNA gene.CONCLUSIONS: We infer that the LMNA p.Asp300Asn mutation is pathogenic in non-syndromic cardiac progeria. Mutations involving codon 300 in the LMNA gene have been associated with progeroid syndromes involving multiple organs. Collectively, the data provide credence to the causal role of p.Asp300Asn mutation in the pathogenesis of non-syndromic cardiac progeria. labels: #Adult#Amino Acid Sequence#Asparagine#Aspartic Acid#Base Sequence#Coronary Artery Disease#Echocardiography#Electrocardiography#Fatal Outcome#Female#Humans#Lamin Type A#Mutation, Missense#Myocardial Infarction#Pedigree#Progeria#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid'
b'During an entomological surveillance for arthropod-borne viruses in the Philippines, we isolated a previously unrecognized virus from female Armigeres spp. mosquitoes. Whole-genome sequencing, genetic characterization and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolated virus, designated Armigeres iflavirus (ArIFV), is a novel member of the iflaviruses (genus Iflavirus, family Iflaviridae) and phylogenetically related to Moku virus, Hubei odonate virus 4, slow bee paralysis virus and Graminella nigrifrons virus 1. To our knowledge, this is the first successful isolation of iflavirus from a dipteran insect. Spherical ArIFV particles of approximately 30\xe2\x80\x89nm in diameter contained at least three major structural proteins. ArIFV multiplied to high titres (~109\xe2\x80\x89p.f.u. ml-1) and formed clear plaques in a mosquito cell line, C6/36. Our findings provide new insights into the infection mechanism, genetic diversity and evolution of the Iflaviridae family. labels: #Animals#Cell Line#Culicidae#Insect Viruses#Philippines#RNA Viruses#Viral Plaque Assay#Viral Structural Proteins#Virion'
b'2D surfaces offer simple analysis of cells in culture, yet these often yield different cell morphologies and responses from those observed in vivo. Considerable effort has therefore been expended on the generation of more tissue-like environments for the study of cell behavior in vitro. Purified matrix proteins provide a 3D scaffold that better mimics the in vivo situation; however, these are far removed from the complex tissue composition seen in vivo. Cell-derived matrices (CDMs) offer a more physiologically relevant alternative for studying in vivo-like cell behavior in vitro. In the protocol described here, fibroblasts cultured on gelatin-coated surfaces are maintained in the presence of ascorbic acid to strengthen matrix deposition over 1-3 weeks. The resulting fibrillar CDMs are denuded of cells, and other cells are subsequently cultured on them, after which their behavior is monitored. We also demonstrate how to use CDMs as an in vivo-relevant reductionist model for studying tumor-stroma-induced changes in carcinoma cell proliferation and migration. labels: #Cell Culture Techniques#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Collagen#Fibroblasts#Humans'
b'Ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like modifiers (UBLs) such as small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) can act as antagonists to one another by competing to occupy similar residues in the proteome. In addition, SUMO and ubiquitin can be coupled to each other at key lysine residues to form highly branched protein networks. The interplay between these modifications governs important biological processes such as double-strand break repair and meiotic recombination. We recently developed an approach that permits the identification of proteins that are modified by both SUMOylation and ubiquitylation. This protocol requires cells that express a mutant 6\xc3\x97His-SUMO3m protein that has had its C terminus modified from QQQTGG to RNQTGG, enabling the purification of SUMOylated peptides and their identification by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). Cells are lysed under denaturing conditions, and the SUMOylated proteins are purified on nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) resin via the 6\xc3\x97His on the SUMO3m construct. After on-bead digestion using trypsin, ubiquitylated peptides are enriched by immunoprecipitation, and the flow-through from this step is subjected to anti-SUMO immunoprecipitation. The SUMOylated peptides are fractionated on strong cation exchange (SCX) StageTips to enhance the coverage of the SUMO proteome. The ubiquitylated and SUMOylated peptides are analyzed separately by liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS and identified with MaxQuant. We demonstrate how this approach can be used to identify temporal changes in SUMOylated and ubiquitylated proteins in response to, for instance, heat shock and proteasome inhibition. The procedure requires 3 d when starting from cell pellets and yields>8,000 SUMO sites and>3,500 ubiquitin sites from 16 mg of cell extract. labels: #Cell Line#Humans#Immunoprecipitation#Peptides#Sumoylation#Ubiquitination#Ubiquitins'
b'The presence of monoamines and their cofactors (the pterins and vitamin B6(pyridoxal phosphate (PLP))) in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be used as indicators of the biosynthesis and turnover of dopamine and serotonin in the brain. In addition, abnormalities in the CSF levels of these molecules are associated with various neurological diseases, including genetic diseases leading to dopamine and serotonin deficiency. Here, we provide a set of quantitative high-performance liquid-chromatography (HPLC) approaches to determine CSF levels of monoamines and their cofactors. This protocol describes step-by-step procedures for CSF sample preparation for the analysis of different molecules, HPLC calibration and analysis, and data quantification and interpretation. Unlike plasma/tissue/blood samples, CSF requires minimal sample preparation: in this protocol, only the analysis of PLP requires mixing with trichloroacetic acid to release the protein-bound vitamin, centrifugation, and mixing of the supernatant with phosphate buffer and sodium cyanide for derivatization in alkaline conditions. Monoamines are analyzed by HPLC with coulometric electrochemical detection (ED), pterins are analyzed by HPLC with coupled coulometric electrochemical and fluorescence detection, and PLP is analyzed by HPLC with fluorescence detection. The quantification of all compounds is achieved by external calibration procedures, and internal quality control and standards are analyzed in each run. We anticipate that investigation of dopamine and serotonin disturbances will be facilitated by measurements of these compounds in human CSF and other biological samples. The estimated time for the different procedures primarily depends on the electrochemical detector stabilization. Overnight stabilization of this detector is advised, and, after that step, preanalytical equilibration rarely exceeds 3 h. labels: #Biogenic Monoamines#Calibration#Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid#Humans#Pterins#Quality Control#Vitamin B 6'
b"Development of resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs is a major challenge in the care of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). Acquired resistance to chemotherapeutic agents in PDAC has been linked to a subset of cancer cells termed 'cancer stem cells' (CSCs). Therefore, an improved understanding of the molecular events underlying the development of pancreatic CSCs is required to identify new therapeutic targets to overcome chemoresistance. Accumulating evidence indicates that curcumin, a phenolic compound extracted from turmeric, can overcome de novo chemoresistance and re-sensitize tumors to various chemotherapeutic agents. However, the underlying mechanisms for curcumin-mediated chemosensitization remain unclear. The Enhancer of Zeste Homolog-2 (EZH2) subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) was recently identified as a key player regulating drug resistance. EZH2 mediates interaction with several long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) to modulate epithelial-mesenchymal transition and cancer stemness, phenomena commonly associated with drug resistance. Here, we report the re-sensitization of chemoresistant PDAC cells by curcumin through the inhibition of the PRC2-PVT1-c-Myc axis. Using gemcitabine-resistant PDAC cell lines, we found that curcumin sensitized chemoresistant cancer cells by inhibiting the expression of the PRC2 subunit EZH2 and its related lncRNA PVT1. Curcumin was also found to prevent the formation of spheroids, a hallmark of CSCs, and to down-regulate several self-renewal driving genes. In addition, we confirmed our in vitro findings in a xenograft mouse model where curcumin inhibited gemcitabine-resistant tumor growth. Overall, this study indicates clinical relevance for combining curcumin with chemotherapy to overcome chemoresistance in PDAC. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Apoptosis#Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal#Cell Cycle Checkpoints#Cell Line, Tumor#Curcumin#Deoxycytidine#Drug Resistance, Neoplasm#Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Mice, Nude#Neoplastic Stem Cells#Pancreatic Neoplasms#RNA, Long Noncoding#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays"
b'The yeast 2-\xce\xbcm plasmid is a remarkable genetic parasite, managing efficient maintenance at high-copy number with minimal impact on the host. Equal partitioning of the plasmid upon host cell division requires plasmid proteins Rep1 and Rep2 and the plasmid STB locus. The Rep proteins and the plasmid-encoded Raf protein also regulate plasmid gene transcription. In this study, protein interaction assays, sequence analyses and mutational approaches were used to identify domains and residues in Rep2 and Raf required for association with Rep1 and Rep2 and to delineate the Rep2 DNA-binding domain. Rep2 and Raf displayed similarities in interactions with Rep1 and Rep2, in having Rep1 promote their STB association in vivo, and in stabilizing Rep protein levels. Rep2 mutants impaired for self-association were competent for transcriptional repression while those deficient for Rep1 association were not. Surprisingly, Rep2 mutants impaired for either Rep1 interaction or self-association were able to maintain efficient plasmid inheritance provided Raf was present and competent for Rep protein interaction. Our findings provide insight into the Rep protein complexes required for partitioning and transcriptional repression, and suggest that in addition to its transcriptional function, Raf stabilization of Rep partitioning proteins contributes to the remarkable persistence of the 2-\xce\xbcm plasmid. labels: #Cell Division#Inheritance Patterns#Organisms, Genetically Modified#Plasmids#Protein Binding#Protein Stability#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Trans-Activators#raf Kinases'
b"Ligation-based nucleic acid detection methods are primarily limited to DNA, since they exhibit poor performance on RNA. This is attributed to reduced end-joining efficiency and/or fidelity of ligases. Interestingly, chlorella virus DNA ligase (PBCV-1 DNA ligase) has recently been shown to possess high RNA-templated DNA end-joining activity; however, its fidelity has not yet been systematically evaluated. Herein, we characterized PBCV-1 ligase for its RNA-templated end-joining fidelity at single base mismatches in 3' and 5' DNA probe termini and found an overall limited end-joining fidelity. To improve the specificity in PBCV-1 ligase-driven RNA detection assays, we utilized structure-specific 5' exonucleolytic activity of Thermus aquaticus DNA polymerase, used in the invader assay. In the iLock (invader padLock) probe assay, padlock probe molecules are activated prior ligation thus the base at the probe ligation junction is read twice in order to aid successful DNA ligation: first, during structure-specific invader cleavage and then during sequence-specific DNA ligation. We report two distinct iLock probe activation mechanisms and systematically evaluate the assay specificity, including single nucleotide polymorphisms on RNA, mRNA and miRNA. We show significant increase in PBCV-1 ligation fidelity in the iLock probe assay configuration for RNA detection. labels: #Base Pair Mismatch#Biosensing Techniques#DNA End-Joining Repair#DNA Ligases#DNA Probes#Limit of Detection#MicroRNAs#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#RNA#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sensitivity and Specificity#Substrate Specificity#Templates, Genetic#Viral Proteins"
b"The ready availability of vast amounts of genomic sequence data has created the need to rethink comparative genomics algorithms using 'big data' approaches. Neptune is an efficient system for rapidly locating differentially abundant genomic content in bacterial populations using an exact k-mer matching strategy, while accommodating k-mer mismatches. Neptune's loci discovery process identifies sequences that are sufficiently common to a group of target sequences and sufficiently absent from non-targets using probabilistic models. Neptune uses parallel computing to efficiently identify and extract these loci from draft genome assemblies without requiring multiple sequence alignments or other computationally expensive comparative sequence analyses. Tests on simulated and real datasets showed that Neptune rapidly identifies regions that are both sensitive and specific. We demonstrate that this system can identify trait-specific loci from different bacterial lineages. Neptune is broadly applicable for comparative bacterial analyses, yet will particularly benefit pathogenomic applications, owing to efficient and sensitive discovery of differentially abundant genomic loci. The software is available for download at: http://github.com/phac-nml/neptune. labels: #Bacillus anthracis#Bacteria#Computational Biology#DNA Mutational Analysis#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Genetic Association Studies#Genome, Bacterial#Microbiological Techniques#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Software#Transcriptome#Vibrio cholerae"
b'Community health workers (CHWs) are members of a growing profession in the United States. Studying this dynamic labor force is challenging, in part because its members have more than 100 different job titles. The demand for timely, accurate information about CHWs is increasing as the profession gains recognition for its ability to improve health outcomes and reduce costs. Although numerous surveys of CHWs have been conducted, the field lacks well-delineated methods for gaining access to this hard-to-identify workforce. We outline methods for surveying CHWs and promising approaches to engage the workforce and other stakeholders in conducting local, state, and national studies. We also highlight successful strategies to overcome challenges in CHW surveys and future directions for surveying the field. labels: #Community Health Workers#Humans#Surveys and Questionnaires#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cumulative probability (c) of arrest by age 28 years in the United States by disability status, race/ethnicity, and gender.METHODS: I estimated cumulative probabilities through birth cohort life tables with data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth, 1997.RESULTS: Estimates demonstrated that those with disabilities have a higher cumulative probability of arrest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8942.65) than those without (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8929.68). The risk was disproportionately spread across races/ethnicities, with Blacks with disabilities experiencing the highest cumulative probability of arrest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8955.17) and Whites without disabilities experiencing the lowest (c\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8927.55). Racial/ethnic differences existed by gender as well. There was a similar distribution of disability types across race/ethnicity, suggesting that the racial/ethnic differences in arrest may stem from racial/ethnic inequalities as opposed to differential distribution of disability types.CONCLUSIONS: The experience of arrest for those with disabilities was higher than expected. Police officers should understand how disabilities may affect compliance and other behaviors, and likewise how implicit bias and structural racism may affect reactions and actions of officers and the systems they work within in ways that create inequities. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Child#Continental Population Groups#Crime#Disabled Persons#Ethnic Groups#Female#Humans#Male#Police#Probability#Public Policy#Role#Sex Factors#United States#Young Adult'
b"More than 3 decades since its emergence in the United States, HIV continues to spread and disproportionately affect socially marginalized groups. Preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a highly effective prevention strategy federally approved since 2012, could fundamentally alter the course of the epidemic. However, PrEP's potential has not been fully realized, in part because health care providers have been slow to adopt PrEP in clinical practice and have been selective in their discussion of PrEP with patients. This nonstandardized approach has constrained PrEP access. PrEP access has not only been inadequate but also inequitable, with several groups in high need showing lower rates of uptake than do their socially privileged counterparts. Recognizing these early warning signs that current approaches to PrEP implementation could exacerbate existing HIV disparities, we call on health professionals to integrate PrEP into routine preventive health care for adult patients-particularly in primary care, reproductive health, and behavioral health settings. Drawing on the empirical literature, we present 4 arguments for why doing so would improve access and access equity, and we conclude that the benefits clearly outweigh the challenges. labels: #Adult#HIV Infections#Health Education#Health Services Accessibility#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Patient-Centered Care#Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis#Preventive Health Services#Social Stigma#United States"
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the geographic distribution of scorpion envenomations in the United States by zip code, with particular attention to the neurotoxic Centruroides sculpturatus (Arizona bark scorpion), for which an antivenom is available.METHODS: We obtained scorpion exposure cases for 2010 to 2015 from the National Poison Data System. Using geographic information systems software, we mapped total exposures and incidence rates for 9 states that reported more than 100 annual calls. We also mapped cases that reported fasciculations and nystagmus (unique to C. sculpturatus among native scorpions).RESULTS: The highest exposure incidences occurred in Phoenix (up to 677 per 100\xe2\x80\x89000 population) and Tucson (584), both in Arizona. Elsewhere, high incidences were found in El Paso, Texas (213); Oklahoma City (209) and Tulsa (178), Oklahoma; and Las Vegas, Nevada (170). Fasciculations and nystagmus were reported in Arizona and southeastern Nevada, with small numbers in surrounding states, including Utah.CONCLUSIONS: Scorpion exposures occurred at baseline rates throughout many of the southern states, whereas several states reported effects indicative of Arizona bark scorpion envenomation. Public Health Implications. Public and health care provider education, as well as the stocking of antivenom, should be targeted based on these findings. labels: #Antivenins#Bites and Stings#Geographic Information Systems#Health Education#Humans#Incidence#Scorpion Venoms#United States'
b'OBJECTIVES: To determine the frequency of loaded handgun carrying among US adult handgun owners, characterize those who carry, and examine concealed carrying by state concealed carry laws.METHODS: Using a nationally representative survey of US adults in 2015, we asked handgun owners (n\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891444) about their past-30-day carrying behavior.RESULTS: Among surveyed handgun owners, 24% (95% confidence interval[CI]\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8921%, 26%) carried loaded handguns monthly, of whom 35% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8929%, 41%) did so daily; 82% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8977%, 86%) carried primarily for protection. The proportion of handgun owners who carried concealed loaded handguns in the past 30 days was 21% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8912%, 35%) in unrestricted states, 25% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8921%, 29%) in shall issue-no discretion states, 20% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x8916%, 24%) in shall issue-limited discretion states, and 9% (95% CI\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x896%, 15%) in may-issue states.CONCLUSIONS: We estimate that 9 million US adult handgun owners carry loaded handguns monthly, 3 million do so every day, and most report protection as the main carrying reason. Proportionally fewer handgun owners carry concealed loaded handguns in states that allow issuing authorities substantial discretion in granting carrying permits. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Female#Firearms#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Ownership#Politics#Public Policy#Safety#United States#Young Adult'
b'The purpose of this study was to assess the prevalence of pseudoexfoliation syndrome\nand pseudoexfoliation glaucoma and to evaluate its association with open-angle glaucoma inpatients attending the Department of Ophthalmology, Dr Tomislav Bardek General Hospital in Koprivnica,\nnorthwestern Croatia. This prospective study was conducted at Dr Tomislav Bardek GeneralHospital between December 2012 and October 2013. A total of 5349 subjects aged 40 or above\npresenting for general ophthalmic examination were screened for pseudoexfoliation syndrome andpseudoexfoliation glaucoma. Each patient underwent complete ophthalmologic examination including\nocular history, visual acuity testing, slit-lamp examination, applanation tonometry, optic disc evaluation,visual field analysis, and gonioscopy if glaucoma was suspected. Exclusion criteria were pseudophakic\nand/or aphakic patients of any age, patients with concomitant congenital eye disease, andpatients with very dense ocular media opacities. Out of 5349 patients examined, there were 1994\n(38.38%) males and 3201 (61.61%) females. The prevalence of pseudoexfoliation syndrome was 3.6%and primary open angle glaucoma 9.4%, out of which 23.6% with pseudoexfoliation glaucoma. The\nfindings of this study improve our knowledge of pseudoexfoliation syndrome and pseudoexfoliationglaucoma in Croatia, particularly in the northwest region. labels: #Age Distribution#Aged#Croatia#Exfoliation Syndrome#Female#Glaucoma#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Male#Middle Aged#Prevalence#Risk Factors#Sex Distribution#Visual Fields'
b'There is limited evidence showing that elevated arterial blood pressure in surgical\npatients may be associated with increased perioperative risk; however, cardiovascular instability frequentlyoccurs during anesthesia. The most commonly used anesthetic agents, both intravenous and\ninhalation ones, produce a decrease in arterial blood pressure. Magnesium, acting as a natural calcium-channelblocker, induces direct and indirect vasodilatation, thus playing a role in the treatment of arterial\nhypertension. In this research, we assessed the effects of magnesium sulfate on cardiovascularstability in patients undergoing diverse planned surgical procedures (abdominal, orthopedic, urology)\nunder general balanced anesthesia, who were diagnosed with arterial hypertension grade 1 and 2. Theresearch encompassed 100 patients of both sexes, aged from 20 to 65. Immediately before induction\nof anesthesia with propofol, the patients in the experimental group (50 study subjects) received 30 mg/kg bolus dose and magnesium sulfate infusion at 10 mg/kg/h, whereas the subjects in the control\ngroup (50 patients) were administered normal saline. Anesthesia was achieved and maintained withsevoflurane, fentanyl and rocuronium. The hemodynamic variables of mean arterial pressure and heart\nrate were measured every five minutes, starting immediately before magnesium infusion. Statisticalanalysis of the categorized values of mean arterial pressure and heart rate revealed a statistically significant between-group \ndifference at 60th and 90th minute of anesthesia. In conclusion, magnesiumsulfate as an adjuvant to anesthesia in patients with arterial hypertension reduces hemodynamic\nchanges during anesthesia. labels: #Adult#Anesthesia#Anesthesiology#Anesthetics, Combined#Blood Pressure#Double-Blind Method#Female#Heart Rate#Hemodynamics#Humans#Hypertension#Magnesium Sulfate#Male#Middle Aged#Surgical Procedures, Operative'
b'Obstructive hydrocephalus is a relatively common complication of intraventricular\nhemorrhage resulting in high morbidity and mortality. We report two cases of transient obstructivehydrocephalus caused by obstruction of mesencephalic duct in patients that presented with altered\nconsciousness which resolved spontaneously in a few hours. In very rare cases, obstructive hydrocephalusdue to intraventricular hemorrhage may be transient and does not need neurosurgical or\ninvasive procedures for lowering raised intracranial pressure, which otherwise are currently preferredtreatment options. labels: #Aged#Female#Humans#Hydrocephalus#Intracranial Hemorrhages#Magnetic Resonance Angiography#Male#Tissue Plasminogen Activator'
b'Occurrence of bilateral pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous\nemphysema during gynecologic laparoscopic procedure is very rare. We report a case of a 23-year-oldwoman who developed bilateral pneumothorax, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous emphysema\nduring laparoscopic ovarian cystectomy. Carbon dioxide extravasations outside the peritoneal cavityduring laparoscopy may have fatal consequences. Careful monitoring, immediate diagnosis and proper\ntreatment are crucial for patient safety. labels: #Female#Humans#Laparoscopy#Ovarian Cysts#Pneumothorax#Subcutaneous Emphysema#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'Botryoid cyst, a rare type of odontogenic cyst, is usually considered a multilocular\nvariant of lateral periodontal cyst. It was first described in 1973, and up to the present less than ahundred cases have been reported in the literature. Botryoid cysts are characterized by a multilocular\nhistologic finding and a higher risk of recurrence than lateral periodontal cysts. In this article, we presenta case of botryoid cyst from our clinical practice, accompanied by literature review of previous\ncases reported in the literature so far. Study results showed that botryoid cysts mostly affected populationin their fifties, with a slight female (53.5%) predominance over males (46.5%). The mandible was\nthe most frequently affected region, accounting for 70 (83.3%) cases. Maxilla was only sporadicallyaffected accounting for 14 (16.7%) cases. Radiographic appearance of botryoid cysts can be multilocular\nor unilocular. It is concluded that the recurrence rate is relatively high (30.1%), therefore longterm follow up is needed. labels: #Adult#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Jaw Diseases#Male#Mandibular Diseases#Middle Aged#Odontogenic Cysts'
b'BACKGROUND: The Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program penalizes hospitals that have high 30-day readmission rates across specific conditions. There is support for changing to a hospital-wide readmission measure to broaden hospital eligibility and provide incentives for improvement across more conditions.METHODS: We used Medicare claims from 2011 through 2013 to evaluate the number of hospitals that were eligible for penalties, in that they met a volume threshold of 25 admissions over a 3-year period for a specific condition or 25 admissions over a 1-year period for the cohorts included in the hospital-wide measure. We estimated the expected effects that changing from the condition-specific readmission measures to a hospital-wide measure would have on average penalties for safety-net hospitals (i.e., hospitals that treat a large proportion of low-income patients) and other hospitals.RESULTS: Our sample included 6,807,899 admissions for the hospital-wide measure and 4,392,658 admissions for the condition-specific measures. Of 3443 hospitals, 688 were considered to be safety-net hospitals. Changing to the hospital-wide measure would result in 76 more hospitals being eligible to receive penalties. The hospital-wide measure would increase penalties (mean [\xc2\xb1SE] Medicare payment reductions across all hospitals) from 0.42\xc2\xb10.01% to 0.89\xc2\xb10.01% of Medicare base diagnosis-related-group payments. It would also increase the disparity in penalties between safety-net hospitals and other hospitals from -0.03\xc2\xb10.02 to 0.41\xc2\xb10.06 percentage points.CONCLUSIONS: A transition to a hospital-wide readmission measure would only modestly increase the number of hospitals eligible for penalties and would substantially increase the penalties for safety-net hospitals. labels: #Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Economics, Hospital#Hospitals#Medicare#Patient Readmission#Reimbursement, Incentive#Safety-net Providers#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor that is under investigation for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. We evaluated tofacitinib in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who had previously had an inadequate response to tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors.METHODS: In this 6-month randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned 395 patients, in a 2:2:1:1 ratio, to four regimens: 5 mg of tofacitinib administered orally twice daily (132 patients); 10 mg of tofacitinib twice daily (132 patients); placebo, with a switch to 5 mg of tofacitinib twice daily at 3 months (66 patients); or placebo, with a switch to 10 mg of tofacitinib twice daily at 3 months (65 patients). Data from the patients who received placebo during the first 3 months of the trial were pooled. The primary end points were the percentage of patients who had at least 20% improvement according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR20 response) and the change from baseline score on the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI; scores range from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating greater disability) at the month 3 analysis.RESULTS: At 3 months, the rates of ACR20 response were 50% with the 5-mg dose of tofacitinib and 47% with the 10-mg dose, as compared with 24% with placebo (P<0.001 for both comparisons); the corresponding mean changes from baseline in HAQ-DI score were -0.39 and -0.35, as compared with -0.14 (P<0.001 for both comparisons). Serious adverse events occurred in 4% of the patients who received the 5-mg dose of tofacitinib continuously and in 6% who received the 10-mg dose continuously. Over the course of 6 months, there were four serious infections, three herpes zoster infections, one myocardial infarction, and one ischemic stroke among the patients who received tofacitinib continuously. Elevations of aspartate and alanine aminotransferase concentrations of three or more times the upper limit of the normal range occurred in more patients who received tofacitinib continuously than in patients who received placebo followed by tofacitinib.CONCLUSIONS: In this trial involving patients with active psoriatic arthritis who had had an inadequate response to TNF inhibitors, tofacitinib was more effective than placebo over 3 months in reducing disease activity. Adverse events were more frequent with tofacitinib than with placebo. (Funded by Pfizer; OPAL Beyond ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01882439 .). labels: #Administration, Oral#Adult#Alanine Transaminase#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Psoriatic#Aspartate Aminotransferases#Disability Evaluation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Janus Kinases#Male#Middle Aged#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Pyrroles#Treatment Failure#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha'
b'BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is an oral Janus kinase inhibitor that is under investigation for the treatment of psoriatic arthritis. We evaluated tofacitinib in patients with active psoriatic arthritis who previously had an inadequate response to conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs).METHODS: In this 12-month, double-blind, active-controlled and placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned patients in a 2:2:2:1:1 ratio to receive one of the following regimens: tofacitinib at a 5-mg dose taken orally twice daily (107 patients), tofacitinib at a 10-mg dose taken orally twice daily (104), adalimumab at a 40-mg dose administered subcutaneously once every 2 weeks (106), placebo with a blinded switch to the 5-mg tofacitinib dose at 3 months (52), or placebo with a blinded switch to the 10-mg tofacitinib dose at 3 months (53). Placebo groups were pooled for analyses up to month 3. Primary end points were the proportion of patients who had an American College of Rheumatology 20 (ACR20) response (\xe2\x89\xa520% improvement from baseline in the number of tender and swollen joints and at least three of five other important domains) at month 3 and the change from baseline in the Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQ-DI) score (scores range from 0 to 3, with higher scores indicating greater disability) at month 3.RESULTS: ACR20 response rates at month 3 were 50% in the 5-mg tofacitinib group and 61% in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, as compared with 33% in the placebo group (P=0.01 for the comparison of the 5-mg dose with placebo; P<0.001 for the comparison of the 10-mg dose with placebo); the rate was 52% in the adalimumab group. The mean change in the HAQ-DI score was -0.35 in the 5-mg tofacitinib group and -0.40 in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, as compared with -0.18 in the placebo group (P=0.006 for the comparison of the 5-mg dose with placebo; P<0.001 for the comparison of the 10-mg dose with placebo); the score change was -0.38 in the adalimumab group. The rate of adverse events through month 12 was 66% in the 5-mg tofacitinib group, 71% in the 10-mg tofacitinib group, 72% in the adalimumab group, 69% in the placebo group that switched to the 5-mg tofacitinib dose, and 64% in the placebo group that switched to the 10-mg tofacitinib dose. There were four cases of cancer, three serious infections, and four cases of herpes zoster in patients who received tofacitinib during the trial.CONCLUSIONS: The efficacy of tofacitinib was superior to that of placebo at month 3 in patients with psoriatic arthritis who had previously had an inadequate response to conventional synthetic DMARDs. Adverse events were more frequent with tofacitinib than with placebo. (Funded by Pfizer; OPAL Broaden ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01877668 .). labels: #Adalimumab#Administration, Oral#Adult#Antirheumatic Agents#Arthritis, Psoriatic#Disability Evaluation#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Double-Blind Method#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Humans#Janus Kinases#Male#Middle Aged#Piperidines#Protein Kinase Inhibitors#Pyrimidines#Pyrroles'
b'In an effort to improve the technical success rates and clinical outcomes of radiofrequency (RF) ablation, Yan et al validated the use of a tumor-penetrating peptide and thermosensitive doxorubicin (DOX)-loaded nanoparticles in combination with RF ablation in a hepatocellular carcinoma mouse model. By achieving higher chemotherapeutic drug concentrations in target lesions, fewer toxic effects, and improved survival end points in an animal tumor model, the authors conclude that superior tumor treatment with RF ablation is possible when combined with molecular-targeted drug delivery systems. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents#Catheter Ablation#Doxorubicin#Drug Carriers#Liver Neoplasms, Experimental#Mice#Molecular Imaging#Nanoparticles#Peptides#Theranostic Nanomedicine'
b'History A 34-year-old man without underlying medical conditions came to the emergency department for evaluation of persistent pain over the volar portion of his right fifth finger after a fall during a football match 3 days before. At physical examination, the injured finger was swollen and purple. Passive and active flexion of the proximal and distal interphalangeal joints were compromised, without interphalangeal instability. Radiography was performed in the emergency department, and the patient was released with a diagnosis of a fifth digit sprain. After the senior radiologist (V.M.C.) reviewed the radiographs, the patient was called back for assessment with ultrasonography (US) on the same day. US was performed with an Aplio 500 unit (Toshiba Medical Systems, Tokyo, Japan) using a multifrequency linear array 7.2-18.0-MHz PLT-1204BX transducer focused at the level of the flexor tendon. The patient was sitting in front of the examiner, with the hand lying palm up on the examination bed. No abnormality was observed during color Doppler US. labels: #Adult#Finger Injuries#Finger Joint#Fingers#Humans#Male'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to determine if the pattern of monthly medical expense can be used to identify individuals at risk of dying, thus supporting providers in proactively engaging in advanced care planning discussions.BACKGROUND: Identifying the right time to discuss end of life can be difficult. Improved predictive capacity has made it possible for nurse leaders to use large data sets to guide clinical decision making.METHODS: We examined the patterns of monthly medical expense of Medicare beneficiaries with life-limiting illness during the last 24 months of life using analysis of variance, t tests, and stepwise hierarchical linear modeling.RESULTS: In the final year of life, monthly medical expense increases rapidly for all disease groupings and forms distinct patterns of change.CONCLUSION: Type of condition can be used to classify decedents into distinctly different cost trajectories. Conditions including chronic disease, system failure, or cancer may be used to identify patients who may benefit from supportive care. labels: #Advance Care Planning#Aged#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Chronic Disease#Communication#Costs and Cost Analysis#Electronic Health Records#Hospice Care#Humans#Meaningful Use#Physician-Patient Relations#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Risk Assessment#Terminally Ill#United States#Unnecessary Procedures'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aims of the project are to increase knowledge related to opioids and improve adherence to evidence-based interventions for sedation monitoring and assessment in adult inpatients receiving opioids for pain through delivery of an interprofessional online program.BACKGROUND: Preventable opioid-induced respiratory depression is a patient safety risk in hospitals. Sedation and respiratory assessment and monitoring guidelines and tools are available to improve practice.METHODS: An interprofessional team identified organization-specific drivers of opioid-induced sedation and respiratory depression using process improvement methodology, developed interventions, and evaluated clinician opioid knowledge and documentation practice.RESULTS: Opioid knowledge survey responses improved after the interventions. Audits showing improved appropriate documentation by RNs of the correct sedation scale were performed over 2 separate 3-month periods.CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians demonstrated increased knowledge about newly adopted sedation and monitoring practices targeted to prevent opioid-induced respiratory depression. labels: #Adult#Analgesics, Opioid#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Interprofessional Relations#Monitoring, Physiologic#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Pain Management#Patient Safety#Respiratory Insufficiency#Risk Assessment'
b'OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness and incremental net cost of a fall prevention intervention that involved hourly rounding by RNs at 2 hospitals.BACKGROUND: Minimizing in-hospital falls is a priority, but little is known about the value of fall prevention interventions.METHODS: We used an uncontrolled before-after design to evaluate changes in fall rates and time use by RNs. Using decision-analytical models, we estimated incremental net costs per hospital per year.RESULTS: Falls declined at 1 hospital (incidence rate ratio [IRR], 0.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.26-0.87; P = .016), but not the other (IRR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.59-1.17; P = .28). Cost analyses projected a 67.9% to 72.2% probability of net savings at both hospitals due to unexpected declines in the time that RNs spent in fall-related activities.CONCLUSIONS: Incorporating fall prevention into hourly rounds might improve value. Time that RNs invest in implementing quality improvement interventions can equate to sizable opportunity costs or savings. labels: #Accidental Falls#California#Costs and Cost Analysis#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Models, Economic#Monte Carlo Method#Nursing Staff, Hospital#Organizational Case Studies#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Safety Management#Time Factors'
b'Although a plurality of drugs target G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), most have emerged from classical medicinal chemistry and pharmacology programs and resemble one another structurally and functionally. Though effective, these drugs are often promiscuous. With the realization that GPCRs signal via multiple pathways, and with the emergence of crystal structures for this family of proteins, there is an opportunity to target GPCRs with new chemotypes and confer new signaling modalities. We consider structure-based and physical screening methods that have led to the discovery of new reagents, focusing particularly on the former. We illustrate their use against previously untargeted or orphan GPCRs, against allosteric sites, and against classical orthosteric sites that selectively activate one downstream pathway over others. The ligands that emerge are often chemically novel, which can lead to new biological effects. labels: #Allosteric Regulation#Allosteric Site#Drug Design#Drug Discovery#Humans#Ligands#Molecular Docking Simulation#Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled#Signal Transduction'
b'Fundamental to biological decision-making is the ability to generate bimodal expression patterns where 2 alternate expression states simultaneously exist. Here, we use a combination of single-cell analysis and mathematical modeling to examine the sources of bimodality in the transcriptional program controlling HIV\'s fate decision between active replication and viral latency. We find that the HIV transactivator of transcription (Tat) protein manipulates the intrinsic toggling of HIV\'s promoter, the long terminal repeat (LTR), to generate bimodal ON-OFF expression and that transcriptional positive feedback from Tat shifts and expands the regime of LTR bimodality. This result holds for both minimal synthetic viral circuits and full-length virus. Strikingly, computational analysis indicates that the Tat circuit\'s noncooperative "nonlatching" feedback architecture is optimized to slow the promoter\'s toggling and generate bimodality by stochastic extinction of Tat. In contrast to the standard Poisson model, theory and experiment show that nonlatching positive feedback substantially dampens the inverse noise-mean relationship to maintain stochastic bimodality despite increasing mean expression levels. Given the rapid evolution of HIV, the presence of a circuit optimized to robustly generate bimodal expression appears consistent with the hypothesis that HIV\'s decision between active replication and latency provides a viral fitness advantage. More broadly, the results suggest that positive-feedback circuits may have evolved not only for signal amplification but also for robustly generating bimodality by decoupling expression fluctuations (noise) from mean expression levels. labels: #Algorithms#Feedback, Physiological#Flow Cytometry#Gene Expression Regulation, Viral#Green Fluorescent Proteins#HEK293 Cells#HIV Infections#HIV Long Terminal Repeat#HIV-1#Humans#Jurkat Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Models, Genetic#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Single-Cell Analysis#Stochastic Processes#Transcription, Genetic#Virus Latency#tat Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus'
b'Accurate gene or protein function prediction is a key challenge in the post-genome era. Most current methods perform well on molecular function prediction, but struggle to provide useful annotations relating to biological process functions due to the limited power of sequence-based features in that functional domain. In this work, we systematically evaluate the predictive power of temporal transcription expression profiles for protein function prediction in Drosophila melanogaster. Our results show significantly better performance on predicting protein function when transcription expression profile-based features are integrated with sequence-derived features, compared with the sequence-derived features alone. We also observe that the combination of expression-based and sequence-based features leads to further improvement of accuracy on predicting all three domains of gene function. Based on the optimal feature combinations, we then propose a novel multi-classifier-based function prediction method for Drosophila melanogaster proteins, FFPred-fly+. Interpreting our machine learning models also allows us to identify some of the underlying links between biological processes and developmental stages of Drosophila melanogaster. labels: #Animals#Cluster Analysis#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Gene Expression Profiling#Models, Statistical#Phenotype#Transcriptome'
b'Aedes albopictus is a highly invasive disease vector with an expanding worldwide distribution. Genetic assays using low to medium resolution markers have found little evidence of spatial genetic structure even at broad geographic scales, suggesting frequent passive movement along human transportation networks. Here we analysed genetic structure of Aedes albopictus collected from 12 sample sites in Guangzhou, China, using thousands of genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We found evidence for passive gene flow, with distance from shipping terminals being the strongest predictor of genetic distance among mosquitoes. As further evidence of passive dispersal, we found multiple pairs of full-siblings distributed between two sample sites 3.7 km apart. After accounting for geographical variability, we also found evidence for isolation by distance, previously undetectable in Ae. albopictus. These findings demonstrate how large SNP datasets and spatially-explicit hypothesis testing can be used to decipher processes at finer geographic scales than formerly possible. Our approach can be used to help predict new invasion pathways of Ae. albopictus and to refine strategies for vector control that involve the transformation or suppression of mosquito populations. labels: #Aedes#Animals#China#Cities#Gene Flow#Genome, Insect#Genome-Wide Association Study#Mosquito Vectors#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide'
b'While the ultimate consequences of social bonds start to be better understood, the proximate behavioural mechanisms underlying the formation and maintenance of these close affiliative relationships have received less attention. We investigated the possible function of male-infant-male interactions (MIMIs) in male-male social bonding processes by analysing about 9000h of focal animal observations collected on two groups of wild Assamese macaques. In support of an agonistic buffering function of MIMIs, after engaging in a MIMI upon approach, subordinates stayed longer in close proximity of a dominant male. Overall, the frequency of MIMIs increased the stronger the affiliative relationship between two males, suggesting that MIMIs like grooming function in relationship maintenance. We did not find support for a role of MIMIs in bond formation as the frequency of MIMIs did not affect the time a male dyad spent in proximity in the consecutive year. Our results contribute to the general debate on behaviours influencing social dynamics in group living mammals. labels: #Animals#Behavior, Animal#Female#Linear Models#Macaca#Male#Social Behavior#Time Factors'
b'Here we introduce a new assessment of emotion regulation called the Mentalized Affectivity Scale (MAS). A large online adult sample (N = 2,840) completed the 60-item MAS along with a battery of psychological measures. Results revealed a robust three-component structure underlying mentalized affectivity, which we labeled: Identifying emotions (the ability to identify emotions and to reflect on the factors that influence them); Processing emotions (the ability to modulate and distinguish complex emotions); and Expressing emotions (the tendency to express emotions outwardly or inwardly). Hierarchical modeling suggested that Processing emotions delineates from Identifying them, and Expressing emotions delineates from Processing them. We then showed how these components are associated with personality traits, well-being, trauma, and 18 different psychological disorders (including mood, neurological, and personality disorders). Notably, those with anxiety, mood, and personality disorders showed a profile of high Identifying and low Processing compared to controls. Further, results showed how mentalized affectivity scores varied across psychological treatment modalities and years spent in therapy. Taken together, the model of mentalized affectivity advances prior theory and research on emotion regulation and the MAS is a useful and reliable instrument that can be used in both clinical and non-clinical settings in psychology, psychiatry, and neuroscience. labels: #Adult#Affect#Demography#Empathy#Female#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Models, Psychological#Principal Component Analysis#Reproducibility of Results#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'BACKGROUND: Important control efforts have led to a significant reduction of the prevalence of human African trypanosomiasis (HAT) in C\xc3\xb4te d\'Ivoire, but the disease is still present in several foci. The existence of an animal reservoir of Trypanosoma brucei gambiense may explain disease persistence in these foci where animal breeding is an important source of income but where the prevalence of animal African trypanosomiasis (AAT) is unknown. The aim of this study was to identify the trypanosome species circulating in domestic animals in both Bonon and Sinfra HAT endemic foci.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: 552 domestic animals (goats, pigs, cattle and sheep) were included. Blood samples were tested for trypanosomes by microscopic observation, species-specific PCR for T. brucei sl, T. congolense, T. vivax and subspecies-specific PCR for T. b. gambiense and T. b. gambiense immune trypanolysis (TL). Infection rates varied significantly between animal species and were by far the highest in pigs (30%). T. brucei s.l was the most prevalent trypanosome species (13.7%) followed by T. congolense. No T. b. gambiense was identified by PCR while high TL positivity rates were observed using T. b. gambiense specific variants (up to 27.6% for pigs in the Bonon focus).CONCLUSION: This study shows that domestic animals are highly infected by trypanosomes in the studied foci. This was particularly true for pigs, possibly due to a higher exposure of these animals to tsetse flies. Whereas T. brucei s.l. was the most prevalent species, discordant results were obtained between PCR and TL regarding T. b. gambiense identification. It is therefore crucial to develop better tools to study the epidemiological role of potential animal reservoir for T. b. gambiense. Our study illustrates the importance of "one health" approaches to reach HAT elimination and contribute to AAT control in the studied foci. labels: #Animals#Cattle#Cattle Diseases#Cote d\'Ivoire#Disease Reservoirs#Humans#Swine#Swine Diseases#Trypanosoma brucei gambiense#Trypanosomiasis, African'
b'Small-angle X-ray scattering is an increasingly popular technique used to detect protein structures and ensembles in solution. However, the refinement of structures and ensembles against SAXS data is often ambiguous due to the low information content of SAXS data, unknown systematic errors, and unknown scattering contributions from the solvent. We offer a solution to such problems by combining Bayesian inference with all-atom molecular dynamics simulations and explicit-solvent SAXS calculations. The Bayesian formulation correctly weights the SAXS data versus prior physical knowledge, it quantifies the precision or ambiguity of fitted structures and ensembles, and it accounts for unknown systematic errors due to poor buffer matching. The method further provides a probabilistic criterion for identifying the number of states required to explain the SAXS data. The method is validated by refining ensembles of a periplasmic binding protein against calculated SAXS curves. Subsequently, we derive the solution ensembles of the eukaryotic chaperone heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) against experimental SAXS data. We find that the SAXS data of the apo state of Hsp90 is compatible with a single wide-open conformation, whereas the SAXS data of Hsp90 bound to ATP or to an ATP-analogue strongly suggest heterogenous ensembles of a closed and a wide-open state. labels: #Bayes Theorem#Computational Biology#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Protein Conformation#Proteins#Scattering, Small Angle#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'BACKGROUND: Due to the high burden of dengue disease worldwide, a better understanding of the interactions between dengue virus (DENV) and its human host cells is of the utmost importance. Although microRNAs modulate the outcome of several viral infections, their contribution to DENV replication is poorly understood.METHODS AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We investigated the microRNA expression profile of primary human macrophages challenged with DENV and deciphered the contribution of microRNAs to infection. To this end, human primary macrophages were challenged with GFP-expressing DENV and sorted to differentiate between truly infected cells (DENV-positive) and DENV-exposed but non-infected cells (DENV-negative cells). The miRNAome was determined by small RNA-Seq analysis and the effect of differentially expressed microRNAs on DENV yield was examined. Five microRNAs were differentially expressed in human macrophages challenged with DENV. Of these, miR-3614-5p was found upregulated in DENV-negative cells and its overexpression reduced DENV infectivity. The cellular targets of miR-3614-5p were identified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and western blot. Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA 1 (ADAR1) was identified as one of the targets of miR-3614-5p and was shown to promote DENV infectivity at early time points post-infection.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Overall, miRNAs appear to play a limited role in DENV replication in primary human macrophages. The miRNAs that were found upregulated in DENV-infected cells did not control the production of infectious virus particles. On the other hand, miR-3614-5p, which was upregulated in DENV-negative macrophages, reduced DENV infectivity and regulated ADAR1 expression, a protein that facilitates viral replication. labels: #Adenosine Deaminase#Dengue Virus#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Macrophages#MicroRNAs#RNA-Binding Proteins#Transcriptome#Virus Replication'
b"Partner dance has been shown to be beneficial for the health of older adults. Robots could potentially facilitate healthy aging by engaging older adults in partner dance-based exercise. However, partner dance involves physical contact between the dancers, and older adults would need to be accepting of partner dancing with a robot. Using methods from the technology acceptance literature, we conducted a study with 16 healthy older adults to investigate their acceptance of robots for partner dance-based exercise. Participants successfully led a human-scale wheeled robot with arms (i.e., a mobile manipulator) in a simple, which we refer to as the Partnered Stepping Task (PST). Participants led the robot by maintaining physical contact and applying forces to the robot's end effectors. According to questionnaires, participants were generally accepting of the robot for partner dance-based exercise, tending to perceive it as useful, easy to use, and enjoyable. Participants tended to perceive the robot as easier to use after performing the PST with it. Through a qualitative data analysis of structured interview data, we also identified facilitators and barriers to acceptance of robots for partner dance-based exercise. Throughout the study, our robot used admittance control to successfully dance with older adults, demonstrating the feasibility of this method. Overall, our results suggest that robots could successfully engage older adults in partner dance-based exercise. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biomechanical Phenomena#Dancing#Demography#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male#Motivation#Robotics#Surveys and Questionnaires#Technology"
b'In Italy, at present, a well-known problem is inhomogeneous provision of rehabilitative services, as stressed by MoH, requiring appropriate criteria and parameters to plan rehabilitation actions. According to the Italian National Rehabilitation Plan, Comorbidity, Disability and Clinical Complexity should be assessed to define the patient\'s real needs. However, to date, clinical complexity is still difficult to measure with shared and validated tools. The study aims to psychometrically validate the Italian Rehabilitation Complexity Scale-Extended v13 (RCS-E v13), in order to meet the guidelines requirements. An observational multicentre prospective cohort study, involving 8 intensive rehabilitation facilities of the Emilia-Romagna Region and 1712 in-patients, [823 male (48%) and 889 female (52%), mean age 68.34 years (95% CI 67.69-69.00 years)] showing neurological, orthopaedic and cardiological problems, was carried out. The construct and concurrent validity of the RCS-E v13 was confirmed through its correlation to Barthel Index (disability) and Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (comorbidity) and appropriate admission criteria (not yet published), respectively. Furthermore, the factor analysis indicated two different components ("Basic Care or Risk-Equipment" and "Medical-Nursing Needs and Therapy Disciplines") of the RCS-E v13. In conclusion, the Italian RCS-E v13 appears to be a useful tool to assess clinical complexity in the Italian rehab scenario case-mix and its psychometric validation may have an important clinical rehabilitation impact allowing the assessment of the rehabilitation needs considering all three dimensions (disability, comorbidity and clinical complexity) as required by the Guidelines and the inhomogeneity could be reduced. labels: #Aged#Demography#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Female#Humans#Italy#Male#Principal Component Analysis#Psychometrics#Rehabilitation#Reproducibility of Results#Statistics, Nonparametric#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b"Mating-induced sexual inhibition has been studied extensively as an important facet of many insect mating systems but remains little understood in spiders. Once mated, females of many spider species become unreceptive and aggressive toward males, but the speed of onset and persistence of this effect are not known. Addressing this gap, the present study considers (1) mating tendency of virgins, latency to remating, and lifetime mating frequency and (2) how quickly sexual inhibition is expressed after the first mating in female Servaea incana jumping spiders. Encounters between males and females took place in two contexts that simulated locations where mating occurs in nature: in the light away from nests ('in the open') and in low light within the shelter of silken retreats ('at a retreat'). Virgin females exhibited high receptivity levels in both contexts but sexual inhibition was induced immediately after their first copulation. The most common tendency was for just one mating in a lifetime, and few females mated more than twice. Context also had an effect on female mating tendency, as virgin females in the open rejected more males before accepting their first mate than did virgin females in retreats. Considering only those females that did remate, females in the open tended to reject fewer males before remating. Given low levels of female remating, virgin females appear to be at a premium for male reproductive fitness in S. incana jumping spiders and this is a likely explanation for protandry found in nature. labels: #Animals#Female#Locomotion#Male#Sexual Behavior, Animal#Spiders#Time Factors"
b"Biological sex differences affect the course of HIV infection, with untreated women having lower viral loads compared to their male counterparts but, for a given viral load, women have a higher rate of progression to AIDS. However, the vast majority of data on viral evolution, a process that is clearly impacted by host immunity and could be impacted by sex differences, has been derived from men. We conducted an intensive analysis of HIV-1 gag and env-gp120 evolution taken over the first 6-11 years of infection from 8 Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) participants who had not received combination antiretroviral therapy (ART). This was compared to similar data previously collected from men, with both groups infected with HIV-1 subtype B. Early virus populations in men and women were generally homogenous with no differences in diversity between sexes. No differences in ensuing nucleotide substitution rates were found between the female and male cohorts studied herein. As previously reported for men, time to peak diversity in env-gp120 in women was positively associated with time to CD4+ cell count below 200 (P = 0.017), and the number of predicted N-linked glycosylation sites generally increased over time, followed by a plateau or decline, with the majority of changes localized to the V1-V2 region. These findings strongly suggest that the sex differences in HIV-1 disease progression attributed to immune system composition and sensitivities are not revealed by, nor do they impact, global patterns of viral evolution, the latter of which proceeds similarly in women and men. labels: #Cohort Studies#Disease Progression#Evolution, Molecular#Female#Glycosylation#HIV Envelope Protein gp120#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Humans#Likelihood Functions#Male#Nucleotides#Phylogeny#Sex Characteristics#Time Factors#gag Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus"
b'This study identifies and analyzes statistically significant overlaps between selective sweep screens in anatomically modern humans and several domesticated species. The results obtained suggest that (paleo-)genomic data can be exploited to complement the fossil record and support the idea of self-domestication in Homo sapiens, a process that likely intensified as our species populated its niche. Our analysis lends support to attempts to capture the "domestication syndrome" in terms of alterations to certain signaling pathways and cell lineages, such as the neural crest. labels: #Alleles#Animals#Domestication#Gene Expression Profiling#Genomics#Hominidae#Humans#Selection, Genetic#Species Specificity#Synteny'
b'Very narrow and pure silver nanoparticles were synthesized by modified thermal treatment method via oxygen and nitrogen flow in succession. The structural and optical properties of the calcined silver nanoparticles at 600\xc2\xb0C with diverse Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations varied from 2% to 4% were studied by means of different techniques. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy was used to monitor the production of pure Ag nanoparticles at a given Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentration. The X-ray powder diffraction spectra are evidence for the transformation of the amorphous sample at 30\xc2\xb0C to the cubic crystalline nanostructures at the calcination temperatures for all Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations. The transmission electron microscopy images showed the creation of spherical silver nanoparticles with the average particle size decreased by increasing Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations from 4.61 nm at 2% to 2.49 nm at 4% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone). The optical properties were investigated by means of UV-vis absorption spectrophotometer, which showed an increase in the conduction band of Ag nanoparticles with increasing Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) concentrations from 2.83 eV at 2% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) to 2.94 eV at 4% Poly(vinylpyrrolidone) due to decreasing particle size. This was due to less attraction between conduction electrons and metal ions for smaller particle size corresponding to fewer atoms that made up the metal nanoparticles. labels: #Metal Nanoparticles#Nanotechnology#Optical Phenomena#Particle Size#Povidone#Powders#Silver#Spectrophotometry, Ultraviolet#Spectroscopy, Fourier Transform Infrared#Temperature#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'A computer model was used to simulate the dependence of protonmotive force (\xce\x94p), proton leak and phenomenological (involving proton leak) ATP/O2 ratio on work intensity in skeletal muscle. \xce\x94p, NADH and proton leak decreased with work intensity. The contribution of proton leak to oxygen consumption ([Formula: see text]) decreased from about 60% at rest to about 3 and 1% at moderate and heavy/severe exercise, respectively, while the ATP/O2 ratio increased from 2.1 to 5.5 and 5.7. A two-fold increase in proton leak activity or its decrease to zero decreased/increased the ATP/O2 ratio by only about 3 and 1% during moderate and heavy/severe exercise, respectively. The low contribution of proton leak to [Formula: see text]in intensively working skeletal muscle was mostly caused by a huge increase in ATP usage intensity during rest-to-work transition, while OXPHOS, and thus oxidative ATP supply and [Formula: see text] related to it, was mostly stimulated by high each-step activation (ESA) of OXPHOS complexes. The contribution of proton leak to [Formula: see text]and ATP/O2 ratio in isolated mitochondria should not be directly extrapolated to working muscle, as mitochondria lack ESA, at least in the absence of Ca2+, and therefore [Formula: see text] cannot be elevated as much as in intact muscle. labels: #Adenosine Diphosphate#Adenosine Triphosphate#Exercise#Humans#Muscle, Skeletal#Oxygen Consumption#Proton-Motive Force#Protons#Rest'
b'The morphology and the drug sensitivity of the strain GYX2014-1 isolated from the hepatic pancreatic tissue of moribund Litopenaeus vannamei were evaluated by conventional culture characteristics, physical and chemical characteristics, and molecular biology methods. Detection of extracellulase and hemolysin activity shows that the isolated GYX2014-1 has protease, lipase, gelatinase activity, but none of amylase, or lecithinase activity. The 16S rRNA gene (GenBank accession number: KT781675) was analyzed, and a phylogenetic tree analysis showed that the isolated pathogen was most closely related to V. vulnificus (GenBank accession number: NR 118570)-a match of more than 99%. The phenotypic traits and molecular biology of isolated bacteria, determined their identity as Vibrio vulnificus (V. vulnificus). In addition, artificially infected L. vannamei with Vibrio vulnificus appeared with the same disease symptoms as those of naturally infected shrimp. Drug sensitivity tests showed that V. vulnificus is highly sensitive to fosfomycin, cefradine and sinomin, and was resistant to penicillin, amikacin and kanamycin. This experiment is the first to separate V. vulnificus from L. vannamei, and the findings of this study can be used as a reference for disease control and health management. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Colony Count, Microbial#Extracellular Space#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Penaeidae#Phenotype#Phylogeny#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Vibrio Infections#Vibrio vulnificus'
b'Hibernating animals can adjust torpor expression according to available energy reserves. Besides the quantity, the quality of energy reserves could play an important role for overwintering strategies. Common hamsters are food-storing hibernators and show high individual variation in hibernation performance, which might be related to the quality of food hoards in the hibernacula. In this study, we tested the effects of food stores high in fat content, particularly polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), on hibernation patterns under laboratory conditions. Control animals received standard rodent pellets only, while in the other group pellets were supplemented with sunflower seeds. We recorded body temperature during winter using subcutaneously implanted data loggers, documented total food consumption during winter, and analysed PUFA proportions in white adipose tissue (WAT) before and after the winter period. About half of the individuals in both groups hibernated and torpor expression did not differ between these animals. Among the high-fat group, however, individuals with high sunflower seeds intake strongly reduced the time spent in deep torpor. PUFA proportions in WAT decreased during winter in both groups and this decline was positively related to the time an individual spent in deep torpor. Sunflower seeds intake dampened the PUFA decline resulting in higher PUFA levels in animals of the high-fat group after winter. In conclusion, our results showed that common hamsters adjusted torpor expression and food intake in relation to the total energy of food reserves, underlining the importance of food hoard quality on hibernation performance. labels: #Adipose Tissue, White#Animals#Body Weight#Cricetinae#Diet, High-Fat#Eating#Fatty Acids, Unsaturated#Female#Hibernation#Seeds#Time Factors#Torpor'
b'BACKGROUND: Rhinovirus infections during infancy account for the majority of respiratory illness health care utilization and are an associated risk factor for subsequent development of allergic asthma. Neonatal type I interferon production is diminished compared to adults after stimulation with TLR agonists. However, broad profiling of immune cell responses to infectious rhinovirus has not been undertaken and we hypothesized that additional immune differences can be identified in neonates. In this study, we undertook a comparative analysis of neonatal and adult blood immune cell responses after in vitro incubation with infectious RV-A16 for 6 and 24 hours.METHODS: Intracellular proinflammatory and type I interferon cytokines along with expression of surface co-stimulatory and maturation markers were measured using multi-parameter flow cytometry.RESULTS: Both circulating myeloid dendritic cell (mDC) and plasmacytoid dendritic cell (pDC) frequency were lower in cord blood. Qualitative and quantitative plasmacytoid dendritic cell IFN-alpha + TNF- alpha responses to rhinovirus were significantly lower in cord pDCs. In cord blood samples, the majority of responsive pDCs were single-positive TNF-alpha producing cells, whereas in adult samples rhinovirus increased double-positive TNF-alpha+IFN-alpha+ pDCs. Rhinovirus upregulated activation and maturation markers on monocytes, mDCs, pDCs, and B cells, but CD40+CD86+ monocytes, mDCs, and pDCs cells were significantly higher in adult samples compared to cord samples. Surprisingly, rhinovirus increased CD40+CD86+ B cells to a significantly greater extent in cord samples compared to adults.CONCLUSIONS: These findings define a number of cell-specific differences in neonatal responses to rhinovirus. This differential age-related immune response to RV may have implications for the immune correlates of protection to viral respiratory illness burden and determination of potential biomarkers for asthma risk. labels: #Adult#B-Lymphocytes#Biomarkers#Cell Differentiation#Cytokines#Dendritic Cells#HLA-DR Antigens#HeLa Cells#Humans#Immunity#Infant, Newborn#Lymphocyte Activation#Rhinovirus#Umbilical Cord'
b'BACKGROUND: The Global Trachoma Mapping Project (GTMP) was implemented with the aim of completing the baseline map of trachoma globally. Over 2.6 million people were examined in 1,546 districts across 29 countries between December 2012 and January 2016. The aim of the analysis was to estimate the unit cost and to identify the key cost drivers of trachoma prevalence surveys conducted as part of GTMP.METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In-country and global support costs were obtained using GTMP financial records. In-country expenditure was analysed for 1,164 districts across 17 countries. The mean survey cost was $13,113 per district [median: $11,675; IQR = $8,365-$14,618], $17,566 per evaluation unit [median: $15,839; IQR = $10,773-$19,915], $692 per cluster [median: $625; IQR = $452-$847] and $6.0 per person screened [median: $4.9; IQR = $3.7-$7.9]. Survey unit costs varied substantially across settings, and were driven by parameters such as geographic location, demographic characteristics, seasonal effects, and local operational constraints. Analysis by activities showed that fieldwork constituted the largest share of in-country survey costs (74%), followed by training of survey teams (11%). The main drivers of in-country survey costs were personnel (49%) and transportation (44%). Global support expenditure for all surveyed districts amounted to $5.1m, which included grant management, epidemiological support, and data stewardship.CONCLUSION: This study provides the most extensive analysis of the cost of conducting trachoma prevalence surveys to date. The findings can aid planning and budgeting for future trachoma surveys required to measure the impact of trachoma elimination activities. Furthermore, the results of this study can also be used as a cost basis for other disease mapping programmes, where disease or context-specific survey cost data are not available. labels: #Communicable Disease Control#Epidemiological Monitoring#Health Care Costs#Humans#Topography, Medical#Trachoma'
b'Global declines in insects have sparked wide interest among scientists, politicians, and the general public. Loss of insect diversity and abundance is expected to provoke cascading effects on food webs and to jeopardize ecosystem services. Our understanding of the extent and underlying causes of this decline is based on the abundance of single species or taxonomic groups only, rather than changes in insect biomass which is more relevant for ecological functioning. Here, we used a standardized protocol to measure total insect biomass using Malaise traps, deployed over 27 years in 63 nature protection areas in Germany (96 unique location-year combinations) to infer on the status and trend of local entomofauna. Our analysis estimates a seasonal decline of 76%, and mid-summer decline of 82% in flying insect biomass over the 27 years of study. We show that this decline is apparent regardless of habitat type, while changes in weather, land use, and habitat characteristics cannot explain this overall decline. This yet unrecognized loss of insect biomass must be taken into account in evaluating declines in abundance of species depending on insects as a food source, and ecosystem functioning in the European landscape. labels: #Animals#Biomass#Conservation of Natural Resources#Flight, Animal#Insecta#Models, Theoretical#Sample Size#Seasons#Time Factors'
b'Why regeneration does not occur in mammals remains elusive. In lower vertebrates, epimorphic regeneration of the limb is directed by the wound epidermis, which controls blastema formation to promote regrowth of the appendage. Herein, we report that knockout (KO) or inhibition of Apoptosis Signal-regulated Kinase-1 (ASK1), also known as mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 5 (MAP3K5), after full thickness ear punch in mice prolongs keratinocyte activation within the wound epidermis and promotes regeneration of auricular cartilage. Histological analysis showed the ASK1 KO ears displayed enhanced protein markers associated with blastema formation, hole closure and regeneration of auricular cartilage. At seven days after punch, the wound epidermis morphology was markedly different in the KO, showing a thickened stratum corneum with rounded cell morphology and a reduction of both the granular cell layer and decreased expression of filament aggregating protein. In addition, cytokeratin 6 was expressed in the stratum spinosum and granulosum. Topical application of inhibitors of ASK1 (NQDI-1), the upstream ASK1 activator, calcium activated mitogen kinase 2 (KN93), or the downstream target, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SP600125) also resulted in enhanced regeneration; whereas inhibition of the other downstream target, the p38 \xce\xb1/\xce\xb2 isoforms, (SB203580) had no effect. The results of this investigation indicate ASK1 inhibition prolongs keratinocyte and blastemal cell activation leading to ear regeneration. labels: #Animals#Aporphines#Basement Membrane#Biomarkers#Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2#Cell Differentiation#Ear Cartilage#Epidermis#Epithelium#Isoenzymes#JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Keratinocytes#MAP Kinase Kinase Kinase 5#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Quinolines#Regeneration#Wounds and Injuries#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases'
b"The clinical significance of Virchow Robin spaces (VRS) in inflammatory brain disorders, especially in multiple sclerosis (MS), is still undefined. We analysed enlarged VRS (eVRS) by means of phase sensitive inversion recovery (PSIR) MRI sequence and investigated their association with inflammation or brain atrophy, and to clinical or physical disability. Forty-three MS patients (21 clinically isolated syndrome suggestive of MS [CIS], 15 RRMS, 7 progressive [PMS]) and 10 healthy controls (HC) were studied. 3DT1, 3DFLAIR and 2DPSIR images were obtained with a 3T MRI scanner. eVRS number and volume were calculated by manual segmentation (ITK-SNAP). Freesurfer was used to assess brain parenchymal fraction (BPF). All patients underwent clinical (EDSS) and cognitive (Rao's BRB and DKEFS) evaluation. eVRS number and volume resulted significantly higher on 2D-PSIR compared to both 3D-T1 (p<0.001) and 3D-FLAIR (p<0.001) and were significantly increased in CIS compared to HC (p<0.05), in PMS and RRMS compared to CIS (p<0.001) and in male versus female patients (p<0.05). eVRS volume increased significantly with disease duration (r = 0.6) but did not correlate with EDSS. eVRS significantly correlated with SPARTd (r = -0.47) and DKEFSfs (r = -0.46), especially when RRMS and PMS were merged in a single group (r = 0.89, p = 0.002 and r = 0.66, p = 0.009 respectively), while no correlation was found with BPF (r = 0.3), gadolinium-enhancing lesions (r = 0.2) and WMT2 lesion volume (r = 0.2). 2DPSIR allowed the detection of an impressive higher number of eVRS compared to 3DT1 and 3DFLAIR. eVRS associate with SPARTd and DKEFSfs failure in relapse-onset MS, suggesting they may contribute to cognitive decline in MS. labels: #Adult#Brain#Case-Control Studies#Cognitive Dysfunction#Female#Humans#Image Processing, Computer-Assisted#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Multiple Sclerosis#Multiple Sclerosis, Relapsing-Remitting"
b'PURPOSE: To classify patients with orthotopic neobladder based on urodynamic parameters using cluster analysis and to characterize the voiding function of each group.MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 2012 to November 2015, 142 patients with bladder cancer underwent radical cystectomy and Studer neobladder reconstruction at our institute. Of the 142 patients, 103 with complete urodynamic data and information on urinary functional outcomes were included in this study. K-means clustering was performed with urodynamic parameters which included maximal cystometric capacity, residual volume, maximal flow rate, compliance, and detrusor pressure at maximum flow rate. Three groups emerged by cluster analysis. Urodynamic parameters and urinary function outcomes were compared between three groups.RESULTS: Group 1 (n = 44) had ideal urodynamic parameters with a mean maximal bladder capacity of 513.3 ml and mean residual urine volume of 33.1 ml. Group 2 (n = 42) was characterized by small bladder capacity with low compliance. Patients in group 2 had higher rates of daytime incontinence and nighttime incontinence than patients in group 1. Group 3 (n = 17) was characterized by large residual urine volume with high compliance. When we examined gender differences in urodynamics and functional outcomes, residual urine volume and the rate of daytime incontinence were only marginally significant. However, females were significantly more likely to belong to group 2 or 3 (P = 0.003). In multivariate analysis to identify factors associated with group 1 which has the most ideal urodynamic pattern, age (OR 0.95, P = 0.017) and male gender (OR 7.57, P = 0.003) were identified as significant factors.CONCLUSIONS: While patients with ileal neobladder present with various voiding symptoms, three urodynamic patterns were identified by cluster analysis. Approximately half of patients had ideal urodynamic parameters. The other two groups were characterized by large residual urine and small capacity bladder with low compliance. Young age and male gender appear to have a favorable impact on urodynamic and voiding outcomes in patients undergoing orthotopic neobladder reconstruction. labels: #Aged#Cluster Analysis#Female#Humans#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Treatment Outcome#Urinary Bladder#Urodynamics'
b"Candidemia acquired outside critical care or hematological areas has received much attention in recent years; however, data on candidemia in surgical departments are very scarce. Our objectives were to describe episodes of candidemia diagnosed in surgical wards and to compare them with episodes occurring in medical wards. We performed a post hoc analysis of a prospective, multicenter study implemented in Spain during 2010-2011 (CANDIPOP project). Of the 752 episodes of candidemia, 369 (49.1%) occurred in patients admitted to surgical wards (165, 21.9%) or medical wards (204, 27.2%). Clinical characteristics associated with surgical patients were solid tumor as underlying disease, recent surgery, indwelling CVC, and parenteral nutrition. Candidemia was more commonly related to a CVC in the surgical than in the medical wards. The CVC was removed more frequently and early management was more appropriate within 48 hours of blood sampling in the surgical patients. Overall, 30-day mortality in the surgical departments was significantly lower than in medical wards (37.7% vs. 15.8%, p<0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed admission to a surgical ward and appropriate early management of candidemia as factors independently associated with a better outcome. We found that approximately 50% of episodes of candidemia occurred in non-hematological patients outside the ICU and that clinical outcome was better in patients admitted to surgical wards than in those hospitalized in medical wards. These findings can be explained by the lower severity of underlying disease, prompt administration of antifungal therapy, and central venous catheter removal. labels: #Adult#Aged#Candidemia#Demography#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Intensive Care Units#Logistic Models#Male#Multivariate Analysis#Patients' Rooms#Risk Factors#Surgical Procedures, Operative#Treatment Outcome"
b"Little is known about the cat's (Felis silvestris catus) need for human contact, although it is generally believed that cats are more independent pets than e.g. dogs. In this study, we investigated the effect of time left alone at home on cat behaviour (e.g. social and distress-related) before, during and after separation from their owner. Fourteen privately owned cats (single-housed) were each subjected to two treatments: the cat was left alone in their home environment for 30 min (T0.5) and for 4 h (T4). There were no differences between treatments in the behaviour of the cat (or owner) before owner departure, nor during the first 5 min of separation. During separation, cats were lying down resting proportionally less (T = 22.5, P = 0.02) in T0.5 (0.27\xc2\xb10.1 (mean\xc2\xb1SE)) compared to in T4 (0.58\xc2\xb10.08), probably due to a similar duration of higher activity early in the separation phase in both treatments. Comparisons of the time interval (min 20-25) in both treatments indicated no differences across treatments, which supports such an explanation. Towards the end of the separation phase (the last two 5-min intervals of separation in both treatments), no differences were observed in the cats' behaviour, indicating that cats were unaffected by separation length. At reunion however, cats purred more (T = 10.5, P = 0.03) and stretched their body more (T = 17, P = 0.04) after a longer duration of separation (T4:0.05\xc2\xb10.02; 0.03\xc2\xb10.01; T0.5: 0.01\xc2\xb10.007; 0.008\xc2\xb10.003). Also, owners initiated more verbal contact (T = 33.5, P = 0.04) after 4 h (0.18\xc2\xb10.05) compared to after 30 min (0.12\xc2\xb10.03). There was no evidence of any correlations between the level of purring or body stretching by the cat and verbal contact by the owner implying that the behavioural expressions seen in the cats are independent of the owner's behaviour. Hence, it seemed as cats coped well with being left alone, but they were affected by the time they were left alone, since they expressed differences in behaviour when the owner returned home. The increased level of social contact initiated by the cats after a longer duration of separation indicates a rebound of contact-seeking behaviour, implying that the owner is an important part of the cat's social environment. labels: #Animals#Bonding, Human-Pet#Cats#Confidence Intervals#Female#Humans#Male#Ownership#Pets"
b'OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the association of knee osteoarthritis (OA) with comorbidities and health-related quality of life (HRQOL).METHODS: A total of 8,907 (weighted n = 13,687,058) participants aged \xe2\x89\xa550 years who had undergone knee radiography were selected from the 2010-2012 Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. OA was classified into four subgroups based on the presence or absence of pain and radiographic OA (ROA): non-OA (Pain-/ROA-), pain only (Pain+/ROA-), ROA only (Pain-/ROA+), and painful ROA (Pain+/ROA+). ROA was defined as Kellgren-Lawrence grade \xe2\x89\xa5 2. HRQOL measurements including EuroQOL visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) scores and the five dimensions and summary index of the EuroQOL-5 dimension (EQ-5D index) were also analyzed. Multivariable logistic regression and linear regression analyses were performed.RESULTS: After adjustment for socioeconomic and lifestyle characteristics, cardiovascular disease, malignancy, and other comorbidities were not significantly associated with OA. Pain only and painful ROA were each significantly associated with limitations in physical activity (odds ratio (OR) 2.66, 95% CI 2.07-3.44, p<0.001 and OR 2.83, 95% CI 2.25-3.58, p<0.001, respectively), lower EQ-VAS (\xce\xb2-coefficient = -10.95, p<0.001 and \xce\xb2-coefficient = -9.75, p<0.001, respectively), and EQ-5D index (\xce\xb2-coefficient = -0.10, p<0.001 and \xce\xb2-coefficient = -0.13, p<0.001) compared with the non-OA group, whereas ROA only was not associated with limitations in physical activity or lower HRQOL score.CONCLUSIONS: Comorbidities were not significantly associated with knee OA after adjustment. Knee OA was associated with physical activity and HRQOL. Painful knee OA, with or without ROA, was more strongly associated with decreased physical activity and lower quality of life than ROA without pain. labels: #Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Comorbidity#Exercise#Female#Humans#Knee Joint#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Nutrition Surveys#Odds Ratio#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Quality of Life#Republic of Korea'
b'There is some dispute regarding the role of experience in the development of dogs\xc2\xb4 socio-cognitive abilities in their interaction with people. We sought to provide new evidence to this debate by comparing dogs with contrasting levels of experience with humans, in a task involving the discrimination of human generous and selfish attitudes. To this end, we compared the performance of adult family dogs against that of adult shelter dogs and puppies living in people\xc2\xb4s homes. In training trials, the generous experimenter (G) signaled the bowl with food and allowed the dog to eat, whereas the selfish experimenter (S) also signaled the baited bowl, but she/he ate the food before the dog could have access to it. Then, subjects were allowed to freely choose between G and S in the choice test. The main finding was that adult subjects (both family and shelter dogs) developed a preference for G over S, but puppies did not. We conclude that the quality and/or quantity of everyday-contact with people did not affect the discrimination of human attitudes in the present protocol, but the amount of experience with people (in years) did matter. Finally, we discuss the relative role of domestication and ontogeny in the development of dogs\xc2\xb4 socio-cognitive abilities. labels: #Animals#Attitude#Behavior, Animal#Choice Behavior#Dogs#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Recognition (Psychology)'
b'The adoptive transfer of labelled cell populations has been an essential tool to determine and quantify cellular dynamics. The experimental methods to label and track cells over time range from fluorescent dyes over congenic markers towards single-cell labelling techniques, such as genetic barcodes. While these methods have been widely used to quantify cell differentiation and division dynamics, the extent to which the applied labelling strategy actually affects the quantification of the dynamics has not been determined so far. This is especially important in situations where measurements can only be obtained at a single time point, as e.g. due to organ harvest. To this end, we studied the appropriateness of various labelling strategies as characterised by the number of different labels and the initial number of cells per label to quantify cellular dynamics. We simulated adoptive transfer experiments in systems of various complexity that assumed either homoeostatic cellular turnover or cell expansion dynamics involving various steps of cell differentiation and proliferation. Re-sampling cells at a single time point, we determined the ability of different labelling strategies to recover the underlying kinetics. Our results indicate that cell transition and expansion rates are differently affected by experimental shortcomings, such as loss of cells during transfer or sampling, dependent on the labelling strategy used. Furthermore, uniformly distributed labels in the transferred population generally lead to more robust and less biased results than non-equal label sizes. In addition, our analysis indicates that certain labelling approaches incorporate a systematic bias for the identification of complex cell expansion dynamics. labels: #Cell Differentiation#Cell Proliferation#Cells#Homeostasis#Models, Biological#Staining and Labeling#Time Factors'
b"BACKGROUND: Antivenom is the treatment of choice for snakebite, which annually kills an estimated 32,000 people in sub-Saharan Africa and leaves approximately 100,000 survivors with permanent physical disabilities that exert a considerable socioeconomic burden. Over the past two decades, the high costs of the most polyspecifically-effective antivenoms have sequentially reduced demand, commercial manufacturing incentives and production volumes that have combined to create a continent-wide vacuum of effective snakebite therapy. This was quickly filled with new, less expensive antivenoms, many of which are of untested efficacy. Some of these successfully marketed antivenoms for Africa are inappropriately manufactured with venoms from non-African snakes and are dangerously ineffective. The uncertain efficacy of available antivenoms exacerbates the complexity of designing intervention measures to reduce the burden of snakebite in sub-Saharan Africa. The objective of this study was to preclinically determine the ability of antivenoms available in Kenya to neutralise the lethal effects of venoms from the most medically important snakes in East Africa.METHODS: We collected venom samples from the most medically important snakes in East Africa and determined their toxicity in a mouse model. Using a 'gold standard' comparison protocol, we preclinically tested the comparative venom-neutralising efficacy of four antivenoms available in Kenya with two antivenoms of clinically-proven efficacy. To explain the variant efficacies of these antivenoms we tested the IgG-venom binding characteristics of each antivenom using in vitro IgG titre, avidity and venom-protein specificity assays. We also measured the IgG concentration of each antivenom.FINDINGS: None of the six antivenoms are preclinically effective, at the doses tested, against all of the most medically important snakes of the region. The very limited snake polyspecific efficacy of two locally available antivenoms is of concern. In vitro assays of the abilities of 'test' antivenom IgGs to bind venom proteins were not substantially different from that of the 'gold standard' antivenoms. The least effective antivenoms had the lowest IgG content/vial.CONCLUSIONS: Manufacture-stated preclinical efficacy statements guide decision making by physicians and antivenom purchasers in sub-Saharan Africa. This is because of the lack of both clinical data on the efficacy of most of the many antivenoms used to treat patients and independent preclinical assessment. Our preclinical efficacy assessment of antivenoms available in Kenya identifies important limitations for two of the most commonly-used antivenoms, and that no antivenom is preclinically effective against all the regionally important snakes. The potential implication to snakebite treatment is of serious concern in Kenya and elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa, and underscores the dilemma physicians face, the need for clinical data on antivenom efficacy and the medical and societal value of establishing independent preclinical antivenom-efficacy testing facilities throughout the continent. labels: #Africa, Eastern#Animals#Antivenins#Drug Evaluation, Preclinical#Humans#Immunoglobulin G#Kenya#Lethal Dose 50#Mice#Protein Binding#Snake Bites#Snake Venoms#Snakes"
b'Cellular responses to stress stem from a variety of different mechanisms, including translation arrest and relocation of the translationally repressed mRNAs to ribonucleoprotein particles like stress granules (SGs) and processing bodies (PBs). Here, we examine the role of PKA in the S. cerevisiae heat shock response. Under mild heat stress Tpk3 aggregates and promotes aggregation of eIF4G, Pab1 and eIF4E, whereas severe heat stress leads to the formation of PBs and SGs that contain both Tpk2 and Tpk3 and a larger 48S translation initiation complex. Deletion of TPK2 or TPK3 impacts upon the translational response to heat stress of several mRNAs including CYC1, HSP42, HSP30 and ENO2. TPK2 deletion leads to a robust translational arrest, an increase in SGs/PBs aggregation and translational hypersensitivity to heat stress, whereas TPK3 deletion represses SGs/PBs formation, translational arrest and response for the analyzed mRNAs. Therefore, this work provides evidence indicating that Tpk2 and Tpk3 have opposing roles in translational adaptation during heat stress, and highlight how the same signaling pathway can be regulated to generate strikingly distinct physiological outputs. labels: #Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinase Catalytic Subunits#Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinases#Cytoplasmic Granules#Heat-Shock Response#Protein Aggregates#Protein Biosynthesis#Protein Subunits#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins#Stress, Physiological#Subcellular Fractions'
b'BACKGROUND: FSS have been suggested to follow activation of the immune system, triggered by herpes virus infections. The aim of this study was to find out whether herpes virus infections were associated with the experience of FSS in adolescents, and whether this association was mediated by hsCRP, as a general marker of immune activation.METHODS: This study was performed in TRAILS, a large prospective population cohort of 2230 adolescents (mean age: 16.1 years, SD = .66, 53.4% girls). FSS were assessed using the somatic complaints subscale of the Youth Self-Report. FSS were analyzed as total scores and divided in two group clusters based on previous studies in this cohort. Levels of hsCRP and antibody levels to the herpes viruses HSV1, HSV2, CMV, EBV and HHV6 were assessed in blood samples at age 16. Also a value for pathogen burden was created adding the number of viruses the adolescents were seropositive for. Multiple regression analysis with bootstrapping was used to analyze the association between viral antibodies and pathogen burden, hsCRP and FSS scores.RESULTS: Antibody levels and pathogen burden were not associated with FSS total scores or FSS scores in both symptom groups. hsCRP was associated with the total FSS score (B = .02, 95% CI: .004 to .028, p = .01) and FSS score in the symptom group of headache and gastrointestinal complaints (B = .02, 95% CI: .001 to .039, p = .04).CONCLUSION: Our study showed no association between herpes virus infections and FSS in general or specific FSS symptom clusters. A role for inflammatory processes in FSS development was supported by the significant association we found between hsCRP levels and FSS, especially in the symptom group of headache and gastrointestinal complaints. labels: #Adolescent#Antibodies, Viral#C-Reactive Protein#Female#Herpesviridae#Herpesviridae Infections#Humans#Male#Prospective Studies'
b"Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a fatal genetic disease caused by an absence of the 427kD muscle-specific dystrophin isoform. Utrophin is the autosomal homolog of dystrophin and when overexpressed, can compensate for the absence of dystrophin and rescue the dystrophic phenotype of the mdx mouse model of DMD. Utrophin is subject to miRNA mediated repression by several miRNAs including let-7c. Inhibition of utrophin: let-7c interaction is predicted to 'repress the repression' and increase utrophin expression. We developed and tested the ability of an oligonucleotide, composed of 2'-O-methyl modified bases on a phosphorothioate backbone, to anneal to the utrophin 3'UTR and prevent let-7c miRNA binding, thereby upregulating utrophin expression and improving the dystrophic phenotype in vivo. Suppression of utrophin: let-7c interaction using bi-weekly intraperitoneal injections of let7 site blocking oligonucleotides (SBOs) for 1 month in the mdx mouse model for DMD, led to increased utrophin expression along with improved muscle histology, decreased fibrosis and increased specific force. The functional improvement of dystrophic muscle achieved using let7-SBOs suggests a novel utrophin upregulation-based therapeutic strategy for DMD. labels: #Animals#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Male#Mice, Inbred mdx#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Skeletal#Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne#Oligonucleotides#Protein Binding#Reproducibility of Results#Up-Regulation#Utrophin"
b'BACKGROUND: Postoperative complications are still a major concern after liver resection (LR). Systemic inflammation and deregulated reactive oxygen species during major abdominal surgery may impair outcome after hepatectomy.METHODS: Patients undergoing LR were included in this study (n = 40). Oxidative stress (OS) was measured peri- and post-operatively as static oxidation-reduction potential markers (sORP) and antioxidant capacity ORP (cORP) by using the RedoxSYS Diagnostic system. Furthermore, Th1- and Th2-specific cytokines were assessed.RESULTS: Whereas there was no significant change in systemic sORP during LR and in the early postoperative course, there was a substantial decrease of cORP immediately post-surgery, and on postoperative days 1 and 3 (p<0.001). OS response was tightly regulated, as there was a significant correlation between sORP and cORP (p<0.0001; R2:0.457). An increase of OS (sORP) after LR of more than 3 mV was predictive for severe postoperative complications (53.8% vs. 12.5; p = 0.017). There was a significantly higher IL-2 (p = 0.006) and IL-5 (p = 0.001) increase during hepatectomy in patients who developed a severe morbidity.CONCLUSION: Antioxidant capacity remained stable during LR but dropped during the post-surgical period, suggesting a consumption of antioxidants to maintain OS within healthy range. Severe postoperative complications were associated with a pronounced inflammatory response during surgery. labels: #Adult#Aged#Cytokines#Female#Hepatectomy#Humans#Inflammation#Liver#Male#Middle Aged#Oxidative Stress#Postoperative Complications'
b"Post-abortion family planning (PAFP) has been proposed as a key strategy to decrease unintended pregnancy and repeat induced abortions. However, the accessibility and quality of PAFP services remain a challenge in many countries including China where more than 10 million unintended pregnancies occur each year. Most of these unwanted pregnancies end in repeated induced abortions. This paper aims to explore service providers' perceptions of the current situation regarding family planning and abortion service needs, provision, utilization, and the feasibility and acceptability of high quality PAFP in the future. Qualitative methods, including in-depth interviews and focus group discussions, were used with family planning policy makers, health managers, and service providers. Three provinces-Zhejiang, Hubei and Yunnan-were purposively selected, representing high, medium and relatively undeveloped areas of China. A total of fifty-three in-depth interviews and ten focus-group discussions were conducted and analysed thematically. Increased numbers of abortions among young, unmarried women were perceived as a major reason for high numbers of abortions. Participants attributed this to increasing socio-cultural acceptability of premarital sex, and simultaneously, lack of understanding or awareness of contraception among young people. The majority of service stakeholders acknowledged that free family planning services were neither targeted at, nor accessible to unmarried people. The extent of PAFP provision is variable and limited. However, service providers expressed willingness and enthusiasm towards providing PAFP services in the future. Three main considerations were expressed regarding the feasibility of developing and implementing PAFP services: policy support, human resources, and financial resources. The study indicated that key service stakeholders show demand for and perceive considerable opportunities to develop PAFP in China. However, changes are needed to enable the systematic development of high quality PAFP, including actively targeting young and unmarried people in service provision, obtaining policy support and increasing the investment of human and financial resources. labels: #Abortion, Induced#Attitude of Health Personnel#China#Family Planning Policy#Family Planning Services#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans"
b'Environmental acclimation is important episode in wildlife occupation of the high-altitude Tibetan Plateau (TP). Transcriptome-wide studies on thermal acclimation mechanism in fish species are rarely revealed in Tibetan Plateau fish at high altitude. Thus, we used mRNA and miRNA transcriptome sequencing to investigate regulation of thermal acclimation in larval Tibetan naked carp, Gymnocypris przewalskii. We first remodeled the regulation network of mRNA and miRNA in thermal acclimation, and then identified differential expression of miRNAs and target mRNAs enriched in metabolic and digestive pathways. Interestingly, we identified two candidate genes contributed to normal skeletal development. The altered expression of these gene groups could potentially be associated with the developmental issues of deformity and induced larval death. Our results have three important implications: first, these findings provide strong evidences to support our hypothesis that G. przewalskii possess ability to build heat-tolerance against the controversial issue. Second, this study shows that transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulations are extensively involved in thermal acclimation. Third, the integrated mRNA and microRNA transcriptome analyses provide a large number of valuable genetic resources for future studies on environmental stress response in G. przewalskii and as a case study in Tibetan Schizothoracine fish. labels: #Acclimatization#Animals#Bone Development#Carps#Female#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation#Gene Regulatory Networks#Heat-Shock Response#Larva#Male#MicroRNAs#RNA, Messenger#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Reproducibility of Results#Sequence Analysis, RNA#Temperature'
b"OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact and cost-benefit of clinical pharmacist interventions on inappropriate use of prophylactic acid suppressant in hepatobiliary surgical patients in a Chinese tertiary hospital.METHODS: A retro-prospective intervention study of patients undergoing elective operations was performed in the Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery of the Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical University. Patients admitted from October to December 2015 and from October to December 2016, served as the pre-intervention and the post-intervention group, respectively. Clinical pharmacist interventions in the post-intervention group included real-time monitoring medical records and recommending that surgeons prescribe prophylactic acid suppressants according to the criteria established by the hospital administration. Then, the clinical outcomes of post-intervention group were compared with the pre-intervention group which lacked pharmacist interventions. In addition, cost-benefit analysis was conducted to determine the economic effects of implementing the clinical pharmacist interventions in acid suppressant prophylaxis in perioperative period.RESULTS: Clinical pharmacist interventions significantly decreased the rate of the use of no indications for prophylactic acid suppressant and of the cases of inappropriate drug selection, dose, route, replacement and prolonged duration of prophylaxis (P<0.05 or P<0.001), resulting in significant increase by 10.65% in the percentage of cases adhering to all the criteria (P<0.001). Moreover, significant reductions were found in the average usage quantity (P<0.001), mean cost (P = 0.03) and mean duration (P<0.001) of prophylaxis acid suppressant. The ratio of the mean cost savings for acid suppressants to the mean cost of pharmacist time was 13.61:1.CONCLUSION: The clinical pharmacist's real-time interventions facilitated the rational use of prophylactic acid suppressant and resulted in favorable economic outcomes in hepatobiliary surgery. labels: #Adult#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Elective Surgical Procedures#Female#Hospitalization#Humans#Liver#Male#Medication Errors#Middle Aged#Patients#Pharmacists#Pharmacy Service, Hospital#Tertiary Care Centers"
b'Current post-exposure prophylaxis for rabies virus infection has several limitations in terms of supply, cost, safety, and efficacy. Attempts to replace human or equine rabies immune globulins (HRIG or ERIG) have been made by several companies and institutes. We developed potent monoclonal antibodies to neutralize a broad spectrum of rabies viruses by screening hybridomas received from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Two kinds of chimeric human antibodies (chimeric #7 and #17) were constructed by cloning the variable regions from selected hybridomas and the constant region of a human antibody. Two antibodies were bound to antigenic site III and I/IV, respectively, and were able to neutralize 51 field isolates of rabies virus that were isolated at different times and places such as Asia, Africa, North America, South America, and Australia. These two antibodies neutralize rabies viruses with high efficacy in an in vivo test using Syrian hamster and mouse models and show low risk for adverse immunogenicity. labels: #Africa#Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Asia#Australia#Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (U.S.)#Disease Models, Animal#Horses#Humans#Hybridomas#Mesocricetus#Mice#North America#Rabies#Rabies virus#South America#United States'
b"In vivo physiological measurement is a major challenge in modern science and technology, as is environment conservation at the global scale. Proper toxicological testing of widely produced mixtures of chemicals is a necessary step in the development of new products, allowing us to minimize the human impact on aquatic ecosystems. However, currently available bioassay-based techniques utilizing small aquatic organisms such as fish embryos for toxicity testing do not allow assessing in time the changes in physiological parameters in the same individual. In this study, we introduce microencapsulated fluorescent probes as a promising tool for in vivo monitoring of internal pH variation in zebrafish embryos. The pH alteration identified under stress conditions demonstrates the applicability of the microencapsulated fluorescent probes for the repeated analysis of the embryo's physiological state. The proposed approach has strong potential to simultaneously measure a range of physiological characteristics using a set of specific fluorescent probes and to finally bring toxicological bioassays and related research fields to a new level of effectiveness and sensitivity. labels: #Animals#Biomarkers#Calibration#Drug Compounding#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Environmental Monitoring#Fluorescent Dyes#Hydrogen-Ion Concentration#Molecular Probes#Zebrafish"
b'The three dimensional (3D) reconstruction of movement from videos is widely utilized as a method for spatial analysis of movement. Several approaches exist for a 3D reconstruction of movement using 2D video projection, most of them require the use of at least two cameras as well as the application of relatively complex algorithms. While a few approaches also exist for 3D reconstruction of movement with a single camera, they are not widely implemented due to tedious and complicated methods of calibration. Here we propose a simple method that allows for a 3D reconstruction of movement by using a single projection and three calibration markers. Such approach is made possible by tracking the change in diameter of a moving spherical marker within a 2D projection. In order to test our model, we compared kinematic results obtained with this model to those with the commonly used approach of two cameras and Direct Linear Transformation (DLT). Our results show that such approach appears to be in line with the DLT method for 3D reconstruction and kinematic analysis. The simplicity of this method may render it approachable for both clinical use as well as in uncontrolled environments. labels: #Adult#Biomechanical Phenomena#Female#Fiducial Markers#Humans#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Movement#Photography'
b'Gold nanorods (GNRs) are increasingly being investigated for cancer theranostics as they possess features which lend themselves in equal measures as contrast agents and catalysts for photothermal therapy. Their optical absorption spectral peak wavelength is determined by their size and shape. Photothermal therapy using GNRs is typically established using near infrared light as this allows sufficient penetration into the tumour matrix. Continuous wave (CW) lasers are the most commonly applied source of near infrared irradiation on GNRs for tumour photothermal therapy. It is perceived that large tumours may require fractionated or prolonged irradiation. However the true efficacy of repeated or protracted CW irradiation on tumour sites using the original sample of GNRs remains unclear. In this study spectroscopy and transmission electron microscopy are used to demonstrate that GNRs reshape both in vitro and in vivo after CW irradiation, which reduces their absorption efficiency. These changes were sustained throughout and beyond the initial period of irradiation, resulting from a spectral blue-shift and a considerable diminution in the absorption peak of GNRs. Solid subcutaneous tumours in immunodeficient BALB/c mice were subjected to GNRs and analysed with electron microscopy pre- and post-CW laser irradiation. This phenomenon of thermally induced GNR reshaping can occur at relatively low bulk temperatures, well below the bulk melting point of gold. Photoacoustic monitoring of GNR reshaping is also evaluated as a potential clinical aid to determine GNR absorption and reshaping during photothermal therapy. Aggregation of particles was coincidentally observed following CW irradiation, which would further diminish the subsequent optical absorption capacity of irradiated GNRs. It is thus established that sequential or prolonged applications of CW laser will not confer any additional photothermal effect on tumours due to significant attenuations in the peak optical absorption properties of GNRs following primary laser irradiation. labels: #Animals#Gold#Lasers#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#Nanotubes#Photoacoustic Techniques#Temperature'
b"This longitudinal study examined whether mothers' and fathers' depressive symptoms predict, independently and interactively, children's emotional and behavioural problems. It also examined bi-directional associations between parents' expressed emotion constituents (parents' child-directed positive and critical comments) and children's emotional and behavioural problems. At time 1, the sample consisted of 160 families in which 50 mothers and 40 fathers had depression according to the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV. Children's mean age at Time 1 was 3.9 years (SD = 0.8). Families (n = 106) were followed up approximately 16 months later (Time 2). Expressed emotion constituents were assessed using the Preschool Five Minute Speech Sample. In total, 144 mothers and 158 fathers at Time 1 and 93 mothers and 105 fathers at Time 2 provided speech samples. Fathers' depressive symptoms were concurrently associated with more child emotional problems when mothers had higher levels of depressive symptoms. When controlling for important confounders (children's gender, baseline problems, mothers' depressive symptoms and parents' education and age), fathers' depressive symptoms independently predicted higher levels of emotional and behavioural problems in their children over time. There was limited evidence for a bi-directional relationship between fathers' positive comments and change in children's behavioural problems over time. Unexpectedly, there were no bi-directional associations between parents' critical comments and children's outcomes. We conclude that the study provides evidence to support a whole family approach to prevention and intervention strategies for children's mental health and parental depression. labels: #Child#Child Behavior#Depression#Expressed Emotion#Fathers#Humans#Longitudinal Studies#Mothers#Parents"
b"This study aims to compare the outputs of the waist-worn Active style Pro HJA-350IT (ASP; used in studies with Asian populations), the waist-worn ActiGragh\xe2\x84\xa2GT3X+ using the normal filter (GT3X+) and the thigh-worn activPAL3 (AP) in assessing adults' sedentary behaviour (total sedentary time, number of breaks) under free-living conditions. Fifty healthy workers wore the three monitors simultaneously during their waking hours on two days, including a work day and a non-work day. Valid data were at least 10 hours of wearing time, and the differences between monitors on the sedentary outputs using the AP as criterion measurement were analyzed by ANOVA. The number of participants who had complete valid data for work day and non-work day was 47 and 44, respectively. Total sedentary time and breaks estimated by the AP were respectively 466.5 \xc2\xb1 146.8 min and 64.3 \xc2\xb1 24.9 times on the work day and 497.7 \xc2\xb1 138.3 min and 44.6 \xc2\xb1 15.4 times on the non-work day. In total sedentary time, the ASP estimated 29.7 min (95%CI = 7.9 to 51.5) significantly shorter than the AP on the work day but showed no significant difference against the AP on the non-work day. The GT3X+ estimated 80.1 min (54.6 to 105.6) and 52.3 (26.4 to 78.2) significantly longer than the AP on the work day and the non-work day, respectively. For the number of breaks from sedentary time, on both days, the ASP and the GT3X+ estimated significantly more than the AP: 14.1 to 15.8 times (6.3 to 22.5) for the ASP and 27.7 to 28.8 times (21.8 to 34.8) for the GT3X+. Compared to the AP as the criterion, the ASP can underestimate total sedentary time and the GT3X+ can overestimate it, and more so at the lower levels of sedentary time. For breaks from sedentary time, compared to the AP, both the GT3X+ the ASP can overestimate. labels: #Actigraphy#Adult#Aged#Asia#Female#Humans#Male#Sedentary Lifestyle#Time Factors#Young Adult"
b'The repeated replacement method (RRM) is a Lagrangian meshfree method which we have previously applied to the Euler equations for compressible fluid flow. In this paper we present new enhancements to RRM, and we apply the enhanced method to both linear and nonlinear elasticity. We compare the results of ten test problems to those of analytic solvers, to demonstrate that RRM can successfully simulate these elastic systems without many of the requirements of traditional numerical methods such as numerical derivatives, equation system solvers, or Riemann solvers. We also show the relationship between error and computational effort for RRM on these systems, and compare RRM to other methods to highlight its strengths and weaknesses. And to further explain the two elastic equations used in the paper, we demonstrate the mathematical procedure used to create Riemann and Sedov-Taylor solvers for them, and detail the numerical techniques needed to embody those solvers in code. labels: #Computer Simulation#Elasticity#Hydrodynamics#Mathematical Concepts#Models, Theoretical'
b'A feature of mature Plasmodium falciparum parasitized red blood cells is their ability to bind surface molecules of the microvascular endothelium via the parasite-derived surface protein Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 (PfEMP1). This ligand is associated with the cytoadherence pathology observed in severe malaria. As pRBC treated with effective anti-malarial drugs are still able to cytoadhere, there is therefore a need to find an adjunct treatment that can inhibit and reverse the adhesion process. One semi-synthetic, sulfated polysaccharide has been identified that is capable of inhibiting and reversing sequestration of pRBC on endothelial cells in vitro under physiological flow conditions. Furthermore, it exhibits low toxicity in the intrinsic (APTT assay) and extrinsic (PT assay) clotting pathways, as well as exhibiting minimal effects on cell (HUVEC) viability (MTT proliferation assay). These findings suggest that carbohydrate-based anti-adhesive candidates may provide potential leads for therapeutics for severe malaria. labels: #Antimalarials#Cell Adhesion#Cell Proliferation#Endothelial Cells#Erythrocytes#Glycosaminoglycans#Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells#Humans#Malaria, Falciparum#Plasmodium falciparum#Protozoan Proteins'
b'Nest boxes for predators in agricultural regions are an easily implemented tool to improve local habitat quality with potential benefits for both conservation and agriculture. The potential for nest boxes to increase raptor populations in agricultural regions is of particular interest given their positions as top predators. This study examined the effects of cherry orchard nest boxes on the local breeding population of a declining species, the American Kestrel (Falco sparverius), in a fruit-growing region of Michigan. During the 2013-2016 study, we added a total of 23 new nest boxes in addition to 24 intact boxes installed previously; kestrels used up to 100% of our new boxes each season. We conducted temporally-replicated surveys along four roadside transects divided into 1.6 km \xc3\x97 500 m sites. We developed a multi-season occupancy model under a Bayesian framework and found that nest boxes had strong positive effects on first-year site occupancy, site colonization, and site persistence probabilities. The estimated number of occupied sites increased between 2013 and 2016, which correlated with the increase in number of sites with boxes. Kestrel detections decreased with survey date but were not affected by time of day or activity at the boxes themselves. These results indicate that nest boxes determined the presence of kestrels at our study sites and support the conclusion that the local kestrel population is likely limited by nest site availability. Furthermore, our results are highly relevant to the farmers on whose properties the boxes were installed, for we can conclude that installing a nest box in an orchard resulted in a high probability of kestrels occupying that orchard or the areas adjacent to it. labels: #Animals#Fruit#Geography#Michigan#Models, Theoretical#Nesting Behavior#Probability#Raptors#Seasons'
b"BACKGROUND: Malnutrition accounts for 45% of mortality in children under five years old, despite a global mobilization against chronic malnutrition. In Madagascar, the most recent data show that the prevalence of stunting in children under five years old is still around 47.4%. This study aimed to identify the determinants of stunting in children in rural areas of Moramanga and Morondava districts to target the main areas for intervention.METHODS: A case-control study was conducted in children aged from 6 to 59.9 months, in 2014-2015. We measured the height and weight of mothers and children and collected data on child, mother and household characteristics. One stool specimen was collected from each child for intestinal parasite identification. We used a multivariate logistic regression model to identify the determinants of stunting using backwards stepwise methods.RESULTS: We included 894 and 932 children in Moramanga and in Morondava respectively. Stunting was highly prevalent in both areas, being 52.8% and 40.0% for Moramanga and Morondava, respectively. Stunting was most associated with a specific age period (12mo to 35mo) in the two study sites. Infection with Trichuris trichiura (aOR: 2.4, 95% CI: 1.1-5.3) and those belonging to poorer households (aOR: 2.3, 95% CI: 1.6-3.4) were the major risk factors in Moramanga. In Morondava, children whose mother had activities outside the household (aOR: 1.7, 95% CI: 1.2-2.5) and those perceived to be small at birth (aOR: 1.6, 95% CI: 1.1-2.1) were more likely to be stunted, whereas adequate birth spacing (\xe2\x89\xa524months) appeared protective (aOR: 0.4, 95% CI: 0.3-0.7).CONCLUSION: Interventions that could improve children's growth in these two areas include poverty reduction, women's empowerment, public health programmes focusing on WASH and increasing acceptability, and increased coverage and quality of child/maternal health services. labels: #Animals#Case-Control Studies#Child, Preschool#Female#Growth Disorders#Humans#Infant#Madagascar#Male#Models, Theoretical#Parasites#Poverty#Power (Psychology)#Public Health#Rural Population#Women"
b'We studied the effects of radiofrequency electromagnetic fields (RF-EMFs) exposure on neuronal functions of mice. Particularly, we focused on RF-EMF effects on synaptic vesicles (SVs), which store neurotransmitters at axon terminals or synaptic boutons. C57 BL/6 mice were exposed to 835 MHz RF-EMF (4.0 W/kg SAR, for 5 h daily) and alterations in SVs at presynaptic terminals in the cerebral cortex were determined. Ultrastructure of randomly selected cortical neurons was observed using typical electron microscopy and bio-high voltage electron microscopy (Bio-HVEM) methods, which enable the estimation of the numbers and size of SVs. The density of the SVs (number /10 \xce\xbcm2 or 40 \xce\xbcm3) was significantly decreased in the presynaptic boutons of cortical neurons after RF-EMF exposure. Furthermore, qPCR and immunoblotting analyses revealed that the expression of synapsins I/II (Syns I/II) genes and proteins were significantly decreased in the cortical neurons of RF-EMF exposed mice. The present study suggested that alteration of SVs and Syn levels may result in alterations of neurotransmitters in the cerebral cortex following RF-EMF exposure. labels: #Animals#Cerebral Cortex#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Electromagnetic Fields#Male#Mice#Neurons#Radio Waves#Synaptic Vesicles'
b'Osteocyte apoptosis is the first reaction to estrogen depletion, thereby stimulating osteoclastic bone resorption resulting in bone loss. We investigated the effects of two different risedronate (RIS) doses (high and low) on osteocyte apoptosis, osteoclast activity and bone loss in ovariectomized rats. Forty rats with ovariectomy (OVX) and sham ovariectomy (SHAM) were divided into 4 groups: 1) SHAM rats treated with saline (SHAM); 2) OVX rats treated with saline (OVX); 3) OVX rats treated with low-dose RIS (OVX-LR, 0.08 \xce\xbcg/kg/day); 4) OVX rats treated with high-dose RIS (OVX-HR, 0.8 \xce\xbcg/kg/day). All animals were sacrificed 90 days after surgery for the examinations of osteocyte apoptosis by caspase-3 staining, osteoclast activity by TRAP staining and bone volume by micro-CT scanning in lumbar vertebral cancellous bone. Both low and high dose RIS significantly reduced caspase-3 positive osteocytes, empty lacunae and TRAP positive osteoclasts in OVX rats. Although the difference in caspase-3 positive osteocytes was not significant between the OVX-LR and OVX-HR groups, numerically these cells were significantly more prevalent in OVX-HR (not OVX-LR) group than in SHAM group. TRAP positive osteoclasts were significantly higher in OVX-LR group than in SHAM or OVX-HR group. There was no significant difference in bone volume among the OVX-LR, OVX-HR and SHAM groups, but lower in OVX group alone. However, significant increase in trabecular thickness only occurred in OVX-LR group. We conclude that both low and high dose RIS significantly inhibit osteocyte apoptosis and osteoclast activity in OVX rats, but the low-dose RIS has weaker effect on osteoclast activity. However, low-dose RIS preserves cancellous bone mass and microarchitecture as well as high-dose RIS after estrogen depletion. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Bone Resorption#Cancellous Bone#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Osteoclasts#Osteocytes#Ovariectomy#Protective Agents#Rats, Sprague-Dawley#Risedronate Sodium'
b'INTRODUCTION: Almost 30 years ago, about 30% of Japanese hemophiliacs became infected with HIV-1 and hepatitis C virus (HCV) after receiving contaminated blood products. While several studies have reported the high efficacy and safety of direct acting antivirals (DAA) in HIV-1 co-infected patients, such data are limited in hemophiliacs.METHODS: We conducted a single-center, open-label study involving 27 Japanese patients (median age; 45 years) with inherited bleeding disorders who were co-infected with HCV/HIV-1. Patients with HCV genotype 1 (GT1) and GT4 received ledipasvir (90 mg) plus sofosbuvir (400 mg), those with HCV GT2 received sofosbuvir plus weight-based ribavirin, and those with HCV GT3 received daclatasvir (60 mg) plus sofosbuvir. Treatment was continued for 12 weeks in all patients. The primary endpoints were rate of sustained virologic response at 12 weeks after end of therapy (SVR12) and occurrence of adverse events during DAA therapy.RESULTS: Eighteen (67%) patients had had received interferon-based therapy, and 11 (41%) had compensated cirrhosis. HCV genotypes were GT1a 4 (15%), GT1b 16 (59%), GT1 undetermined 2 (7%), GT2a 1 (4%), GT3a 3 (11%) and GT4a 1 (4%). All patients were on combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) and had undetectable HIV-1 viral load (<20 copies/\xce\xbcL) at baseline. All patients achieved SVR12. Serious adverse events were observed in 3 patients: arteritis of the leg, which resolved after completion of DAA therapy, asymptomatic QT prolongation and gastrointestinal hemorrhage. cART failure was noted in one patient due to emergence of raltegravir resistance during ledipasvir/sofosbuvir treatment. Although \xce\xb1-fetoprotein, Mac-2 binding protein glycosylation isomer (M2BPGi), and Fibro Scan (FS) scores decreased in most patients during DAA therapy, M2BPGi (>2.0 cutoff index) and FS scores (>15.0 kPa) were still high in 6 patients at week 36.CONCLUSIONS: DAA therapy is effective in all patients. However, adverse events and efficacy of cART should be monitored closely. labels: #Adult#Antiviral Agents#Benzimidazoles#Coinfection#Drug Therapy, Combination#Female#Fluorenes#HIV Infections#HIV-1#Hemophilia A#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Humans#Imidazoles#Interferons#Liver Cirrhosis#Male#Middle Aged#RNA, Viral#Sofosbuvir#Viral Load'
b"The enzyme tRNase Z, a member of the metallo-\xce\xb2-lactamase family, endonucleolytically removes 3' trailers from precursor tRNAs, preparing them for CCA addition and aminoacylation. The short form of tRNase Z, tRNase ZS, functions as a homodimer and is found in all prokaryotes and some eukaryotes. The long form, tRNase ZL, related to tRNase ZS through tandem duplication and found only in eukaryotes, possesses ~2,000-fold greater catalytic efficiency than tRNase ZS. tRNase ZL consists of related but diverged amino and carboxy domains connected by a flexible linker (also referred to as a flexible tether) and functions as a monomer. The amino domain retains the flexible arm responsible for substrate recognition and binding while the carboxy domain retains the active site. The linker region was explored by Ala-scanning through two conserved regions of D. melanogaster tRNase Z: NdomTprox, located at the carboxy end of the amino domain proximal to the linker, and Tflex, a flexible site in the linker. Periodic substitutions in a hydrophobic patch (F329 and L332) at the carboxy end of NdomTprox show 2,700 and 670-fold impairment relative to wild type, respectively, accompanied by reduced linker flexibility at N-T inside the Ndom- linker boundary. The Ala substitution for N378 in the Tflex region has 10-fold higher catalytic efficiency than wild type and locally decreased flexibility, while the Ala substitution at R382 reduces catalytic efficiency ~50-fold. These changes in pre-tRNA processing kinetics and protein flexibility are interpreted in light of a recent crystal structure for S. cerevisiae tRNase Z, suggesting transmission of local changes in hydrophobicity into the skeleton of the amino domain. labels: #Alanine#Amino Acid Substitution#Animals#Binding Sites#Catalysis#Catalytic Domain#Conserved Sequence#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Endoribonucleases#RNA, Transfer#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid"
b'The genetics and epigenetic processes associated with morphological organization are a principal aim of biology, ranging from cohesion between cells to shape and size of organisms. We investigate the post-embryonic development of Hypopharyngeal sclerite and cornua HPC and mandibles M of Drosophila gaucha larva. Integrated functioning of these Cephalopharyngeal skeleton parts of D. gaucha larva is essential for food acquisition, participating in locomotion and microhabitat selection. We examined two isolates by recording the growth of the HPC and M every 24 h for 8 days in parental, F1, F2 and backcross larvae. In F1 larvae, the HPC and M growth was similar to the parental. In F2 and backcross larvae, the growth was slower. Epistasis and dominance are the principal sources upon which the growth of HPC and M are based. Pleiotropic genes seem also to be involved in integrating the development of M and HPC. Our data suggest that hybridization of the isolates modified epigenetic processes involved in the development of those morphological structures of D. gaucha larva. labels: #Animals#Bone and Bones#Drosophila#Epistasis, Genetic#Hypopharynx#Larva#Mandible#Tooth'
b"According to estimates from Public Health England, by 2034 70% of adults are expected to be overweight or obese, therefore understanding the underpinning aetiology is a priority. Eating in response to negative affect contributes towards obesity, however, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Evidence that visceral afferent signals contribute towards the experience of emotion is accumulating rapidly, with the emergence of new influential models of 'active inference'. No longer viewed as a 'bottom up' process, new interoceptive facets based on 'top down' predictions have been proposed, although at present it is unclear which aspects of interoception contribute to aberrant eating behaviour and obesity. Study one examined the link between eating behaviour, body mass index and the novel interoceptive indices; interoceptive metacognitive awareness (IAw) and interoceptive prediction error (IPE), as well as the traditional measures; interoceptive accuracy (IAc) and interoceptive sensibility (IS). The dissociation between these interoceptive indices was confirmed. Emotional eaters were characterised by a heightened interoceptive signal but reduced meta-cognitive awareness of their interoceptive abilities. In addition, emotional eating correlated with IPE; effects that could not be accounted for by differences in anxiety and depression. Study two confirmed the positive association between interoceptive accuracy and emotional eating using a novel unbiased heartbeat discrimination task based on the method of constant stimuli. Results reveal new and important mechanistic insights into the processes that may underlie problematic affect regulation in overweight populations. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Body Mass Index#Depression#Eating#Emotions#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Interoception#Obesity#Overweight#Visceral Afferents#Young Adult"
b"PURPOSE: The Prosigna\xc2\xae breast cancer prognostic gene signature assay identifies a gene-expression profile that permits the classification of tumors into subtypes and gives a score for the risk of recurrence (ROR) at 10 years. The primary objective of this multicenter study was to evaluate the impact of Prosigna's assay information on physicians' adjuvant treatment decisions in patients with early-stage breast cancer. Secondary objectives were to assess confidence of practitioners in their therapeutic recommendations before and after the added information provided by the Prosigna assay; and to evaluate the emotional state of patients before and after the Prosigna test results.METHODS: Consecutive patients with invasive early-stage breast cancer were enrolled in a prospective, observational, multicenter study carried out in 8 hospitals in France. The Prosigna test was carried out on surgical specimens using the nCounter\xc2\xae Analysis System located at the Institut Curie. Both before and after receiving the Prosigna test results, physicians completed treatment confidence questionnaires and patients completed questionnaires concerning their state of anxiety, the difficulties felt in face of the therapy and quality of life. Information was also collected at 6 months regarding the physicians' opinion on the test results and the patients' degree of anxiety, difficulties with therapy and quality of life.RESULTS: Between March 2015 and January 2016, 8 study centers in France consecutively enrolled 210 postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor (ER) positive, human epidermal growth hormone-2 (HER-2) negative, and node negative tumors, either stage 1 or stage 2. Intrinsic tumor subtypes as assessed by the Prosigna test were 114 (58.2%) Luminal A, 79 (40.3%) Luminal B, 1 (0.5%) HER-2 enriched (HER-2E), and 2 (1.0%) basal-like. Before receiving the Prosigna test results, physicians categorized tumor subtypes based on immunohistochemistry (IHC) as Luminal A in 126 (64%) patients and Luminal B in 70 (36%) patients, an overall discordance rate of 25%. The availability of Prosigna assay results was significantly associated with the likelihood of change in treatment recommendations, with 34 patients (18%) having their treatment plan changed from Adjuvant Chemotherapy to No Adjuvant Chemotherapy or vice versa (p<0.001, Fisher's exact test). Prosigna test results also decreased patients' anxiety about the chosen adjuvant therapy, and improved emotional well-being and measures of personal perceptions of uncertainty.CONCLUSIONS: The results of this prospective decision impact study are consistent with 2 previous, identically designed studies carried out in Spain and Germany. The availability of Prosigna test results increased the confidence of treating physicians in their adjuvant treatment decisions, and led to an 18% change in chemotherapy treatment plan (from Adjuvant Chemotherapy to No Adjuvant Chemotherapy or vice versa). Prosigna testing decreased anxiety and improved measures of health-related quality of life in patients facing adjuvant therapy. The 25% discordance between Prosigna test and IHC subtyping underlines the importance of molecular testing for optimal systemic therapy indications in early breast cancer. labels: #Breast Neoplasms#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Female#France#Health Planning Guidelines#Humans#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Recurrence, Local#Neoplasm Staging#Physicians#Prospective Studies#Treatment Outcome"
b'The clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated system (Cas) is widely used for mediating the knock-in of foreign DNA into the genomes of various organisms. Here, we report a process of CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in via non-homologous end joining by the direct injection of Cas9/gRNA ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) in the crustacean Daphnia magna, which is a model organism for studies on toxicology, ecology, and evolution. First, we confirmed the cleavage activity of Cas9 RNPs comprising purified Cas9 proteins and gRNAs in D. magna. We used a gRNA that targets exon 10 of the eyeless gene. Cas9 proteins were incubated with the gRNAs and the resulting Cas9 RNPs were injected into D. magna eggs, which led to a typical phenotype of the eyeless mutant, i.e., eye deformity. The somatic and heritable mutagenesis efficiencies were up to 96% and 40%, respectively. Second, we tested the CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in of a plasmid by the injection of Cas9 RNPs. The donor DNA plasmid harboring the fluorescent reporter gene was designed to contain the gRNA recognition site. The co-injection of Cas9 RNPs together with the donor DNAs resulted in generation of one founder animal that produced fluorescent progenies. This transgenic Daphnia had donor DNA at the targeted genomic site, which suggested the concurrent cleavage of the injected plasmid DNA and genomic DNA. Owing to its simplicity and ease of experimental design, we suggest that the CRISPR/Cas-mediated knock-in method represents a promising tool for studying functional genomics in D. magna. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Base Sequence#CRISPR-Cas Systems#DNA End-Joining Repair#Daphnia#Gene Knock-In Techniques#Gene Knockout Techniques#Genes, Reporter#Genetic Loci#Germ Cells#Phenotype#Plasmids#Ribonucleoproteins#Transgenes'
b'Sulfur trafficking in living organisms relies on transpersulfuration reactions consisting in the enzyme-catalyzed transfer of S atoms via activated persulfidic S across protein-protein interfaces. The recent elucidation of the mechanistic basis for transpersulfuration in the CsdA-CsdE model system has paved the way for a better understanding of its role under oxidative stress. Herein we present the crystal structure of the oxidized, inactivated CsdE dimer at 2.4 \xc3\x85 resolution. The structure sheds light into the activation of the Cys61 nucleophile on its way from a solvent-secluded position in free CsdE to a fully extended conformation in the persulfurated CsdA-CsdE complex. Molecular dynamics simulations of available CsdE structures allow to delineate the sequence of conformational changes underwent by CsdE and to pinpoint the key role played by the deprotonation of the Cys61 thiol. The low-energy subunit orientation in the disulfide-bridged CsdE dimer demonstrates the likely physiologic relevance of this oxidative dead-end form of CsdE, suggesting that CsdE could act as a redox sensor in vivo. labels: #Carbon-Sulfur Lyases#Crystallography, X-Ray#DEAD-box RNA Helicases#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Proteins#Molecular Dynamics Simulation#Oxidative Stress#Protein Conformation#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Protein Multimerization#Sulfur'
b'The polyamine norspermidine is one of the major polyamines synthesized by Vibrionales and has also been found in various aquatic organisms. Norspermidine is among the environmental signals that positively regulate Vibrio cholerae biofilm formation. The NspS/MbaA signaling complex detects extracellular norspermidine and mediates the response to this polyamine. Norspermidine binding to the NspS periplasmic binding protein is thought to inhibit the phosphodiesterase activity of MbaA, increasing levels of the biofilm-promoting second messenger cyclic diguanylate monophosphate, thus enhancing biofilm formation. V. cholerae can also synthesize norspermidine using the enzyme NspC as well as import it from the environment. Deletion of the nspC gene was shown to reduce accumulation of bacteria in biofilms, leading to the conclusion that intracellular norspermidine is also a positive regulator of biofilm formation. Because V. cholerae uses norspermidine to synthesize the siderophore vibriobactin it is possible that intracellular norspermidine is required to obtain sufficient amounts of iron, which is also necessary for robust biofilm formation. The objective of this study was to assess the relative contributions of intracellular and extracellular norspermidine to the regulation of biofilm formation in V. cholerae. We show the biofilm defect of norspermidine synthesis mutants does not result from an inability to produce vibriobactin as vibriobactin synthesis mutants do not have diminished biofilm forming abilities. Furthermore, our work shows that extracellular, but not intracellular norspermidine, is mainly responsible for promoting biofilm formation. We establish that the NspS/MbaA signaling complex is the dominant mediator of biofilm formation in response to extracellular norspermidine, rather than norspermidine synthesized by NspC or imported into the cell. labels: #Biofilms#Catechols#Cyclic GMP#Iron#Oxazoles#Periplasmic Binding Proteins#Phosphoric Diester Hydrolases#Signal Transduction#Spermidine#Vibrio cholerae'
b'We consider a continuous-time Markov chain model of SIR disease dynamics with two levels of mixing. For this so-called stochastic households model, we provide two methods for inferring the model parameters-governing within-household transmission, recovery, and between-household transmission-from data of the day upon which each individual became infectious and the household in which each infection occurred, as might be available from First Few Hundred studies. Each method is a form of Bayesian Markov Chain Monte Carlo that allows us to calculate a joint posterior distribution for all parameters and hence the household reproduction number and the early growth rate of the epidemic. The first method performs exact Bayesian inference using a standard data-augmentation approach; the second performs approximate Bayesian inference based on a likelihood approximation derived from branching processes. These methods are compared for computational efficiency and posteriors from each are compared. The branching process is shown to be a good approximation and remains computationally efficient as the amount of data is increased. labels: #Algorithms#Communicable Diseases#Computer Simulation#Family Characteristics#Humans#Markov Chains#Models, Theoretical#Monte Carlo Method'
b"Humans generally prefer social over nonsocial stimuli from an early age. Reduced preference for social rewards has been observed in individuals with autism spectrum conditions (ASC). This preference has typically been noted in separate tasks that measure orienting toward and engaging with social stimuli. In this experiment, we used two eye-tracking tasks to index both of these aspects of social preference in in 77 typical adults. We used two measures, global effect and preferential looking time. The global effect task measures saccadic deviation toward a social stimulus (related to 'orienting'), while the preferential looking task records gaze duration bias toward social stimuli (relating to 'engaging'). Social rewards were found to elicit greater saccadic deviation and greater gaze duration bias, suggesting that they have both greater salience and higher value compared to nonsocial rewards. Trait empathy was positively correlated with the measure of relative value of social rewards, but not with their salience. This study thus elucidates the relationship of empathy with social reward processing. labels: #Bias#Empathy#Eye Movements#Female#Fixation, Ocular#Humans#Individuality#Male#Reward#Social Behavior#Task Performance and Analysis#Young Adult"
b'RATIONALE: Patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) have been shown to be vitamin D3 (VD3) deficient, which is associated with more severe disease and increased polyp size. To gain mechanistic insights into these observational studies, we examined the impact of VD3 deficiency on inflammation and VD3 metabolism in an Aspergillus fumigatus (Af) mouse model of chronic rhinosinusitis (Af-CRS).METHODS: Balb/c mice were fed control or VD3 deficient diet for 4 weeks. Mice were then sensitized with intraperitoneal Af, and one week later given Af intranasally every three days for four weeks while being maintained on control or VD3 deficient diet. Airway function, sinonasal immune cell infiltrate and sinonasal VD3 metabolism profiles were then examined.RESULTS: Mice with VD3 deficiency had increased Penh and sRaw values as compared to controls as well as exacerbated changes in sRaw when coupled with Af-CRS. As compared to controls, VD3 deficient and Af-CRS mice had reduced sinonasal 1\xce\xb1-hydroxylase and the active VD3 metabolite, 1,25(OH)2D3. Differential analysis of nasal lavage samples showed that VD3 deficiency alone and in combination with Af-CRS profoundly upregulated eosinophil, neutrophil and lymphocyte numbers. VD3 deficiency exacerbated increases in monocyte-derived dendritic cell (DC) associated with Af-CRS. Conversely, T-regulatory cells were decreased in both Af-CRS mice and VD3 deficient mice, though coupling VD3 deficiency with Af-CRS did not exacerbate CD4 or T-regulatory cells numbers. Lastly, VD3 deficiency had a modifying or exacerbating impact on nasal lavage levels of IFN-\xce\xb3, IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-\xce\xb1, but had no impact on IL-17A.CONCLUSIONS: VD3 deficiency causes changes in sinonasal immunity, which in many ways mirrors the changes observed in Af-CRS mice, while selectively exacerbating inflammation. Furthermore, both VD3 deficiency and Af-CRS were associated with altered sinonasal VD3 metabolism causing reductions in local levels of the active VD3 metabolite, 1,25(OH)2D3, even with adequate circulating levels. labels: #Animals#Aspergillus fumigatus#Blood Cell Count#Cholecalciferol#Diet#Dietary Supplements#Disease Models, Animal#Eosinophils#Humans#Inflammation#Lymphocytes#Mice#Nasal Lavage#Nasal Polyps#Neutrophils#Rhinitis#Sinusitis#T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory#Vitamin D Deficiency'
b'Many archaeological science studies use the concept of "provenance", where the origins of cultural material can be determined through physical or chemical properties that relate back to the origins of the material. Recent studies using DNA profiling of bacteria have been used for the forensic determination of soils, towards determination of geographic origin. This manuscript presents a novel approach to the provenance of archaeological minerals and related materials through the use of 16S rRNA sequencing analysis of microbial DNA. Through the microbial DNA characterization from ochre and multivariate statistics, we have demonstrated the clear discrimination between four distinct Australian cultural ochre sites. labels: #Archaeology#Australia#Geography#Phylogeny#Principal Component Analysis#RNA, Ribosomal, 16S#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Soil#Soil Microbiology'
b'BACKGROUND: Although current alcohol consumption is a risk factor for incident atrial fibrillation (AF), the more clinically relevant question may be whether alcohol cessation is associated with a reduced risk.METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied participants enrolled in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study (ARIC) between 1987 and 1989 without prevalent AF. Past and current alcohol consumption were ascertained at baseline and at 3 subsequent visits. Incident AF was ascertained via study ECGs, hospital discharge ICD-9 codes, and death certificates. Of 15,222 participants, 2,886 (19.0%) were former drinkers. During a median follow-up of 19.7 years, there were 1,631 cases of incident AF, 370 occurring in former consumers. Former drinkers had a higher rate of AF compared to lifetime abstainers and current drinkers. After adjustment for potential confounders, every decade abstinent from alcohol was associated with an approximate 20% (95% CI 11-28%) lower rate of incident AF; every additional decade of past alcohol consumption was associated with a 13% (95% CI 3-25%) higher rate of AF; and every additional drink per day during former drinking was associated with a 4% (95% CI 0-8%) higher rate of AF.CONCLUSIONS: Among former drinkers, the number of years of drinking and the amount of alcohol consumed may each confer an increased risk of AF. Given that a longer duration of abstinence was associated with a decreased risk of AF, earlier modification of alcohol use may have a greater influence on AF prevention. labels: #Alcohol Drinking#Atherosclerosis#Atrial Fibrillation#Female#Humans#Incidence#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors'
b'One of the challenging issues in vaccine development is peptide and adjuvant delivery into target cells. In this study, we developed a vaccine and therapeutic delivery system to increase cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response against a breast cancer model overexpressing HER2/neu. Gp2, a HER2/neu-derived peptide, was conjugated to Maleimide-mPEG2000-DSPE micelles and post inserted into liposomes composed of DMPC, DMPG phospholipids, and fusogenic lipid dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DOPE) containing monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL) adjuvant (DMPC-DMPG-DOPE-MPL-Gp2). BALB/c mice were immunized with different formulations and the immune response was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. ELISpot and intracellular cytokine analysis by flow cytometry showed that the mice vaccinated with Lip-DOPE-MPL-GP2 incited the highest number of IFN-\xce\xb3+ in CD8+ cells and CTL response. The immunization led to lower tumor sizes and longer survival time compared to the other groups of mice immunized and treated with the Lip-DOPE-MPL-GP2 formulation in both prophylactic and therapeutic experiments. These results showed that co-formulation of DOPE and MPL conjugated with GP2 peptide not only induces high antitumor immunity but also enhances therapeutic efficacy in TUBO mice model. Lip-DOPE-MPL-GP2 formulation could be a promising vaccine and a therapeutic delivery system against HER2 positive cancers and merits further investigation. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Antigens, Neoplasm#Breast Neoplasms#Cancer Vaccines#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Separation#Chromatography, Thin Layer#Cytokines#Enzyme-Linked Immunospot Assay#Female#Interferon-gamma#Interleukin-4#Liposomes#Lymph Nodes#Maleimides#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Nanoparticles#Peptides#Phenotype#Phosphatidylethanolamines#Polyethylene Glycols#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Receptor, ErbB-2#Spleen#T-Lymphocytes, Cytotoxic#Vaccination#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays'
b'OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the image quality and radiation dose of submillisievert standard-pitch CT pulmonary angiography (CTPA) with ultra-low dose contrast media administration in comparison to standard CTPA.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Hundred patients (56 females, 44 males, mean age 69.6\xc2\xb115.4 years; median BMI: 26.6, IQR: 5.9) with suspected pulmonary embolism were examined with two different protocols (n = 50 each, group A: 80 kVp, ref. mAs 115, 25 ml of contrast medium; group B: 100 kVp, ref. mAs 150, 60 ml of contrast medium) using a dual-source CT equipped with automated exposure control. Objective and subjective image qualities, radiation exposure as well as the frequency of pulmonary embolism were evaluated.RESULTS: There was no significant difference in subjective image quality scores between two groups regarding pulmonary arteries (p = 0.776), whereby the interobserver agreement was excellent (group A: k = 0.9; group B k = 1.0). Objective image analysis revealed that signal intensities (SI), signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR) of the pulmonary arteries were equal or significantly higher in group B. There was no significant difference in the frequency of pulmonary embolism (p = 0.65). Using the low dose and low contrast media protocol resulted in a radiation dose reduction by 71.8% (2.4 vs. 0.7 mSv; p<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: This 80 kVp standard pitch CTPA protocol with 25 ml contrast agent volume can obtain sufficient image quality to exclude or diagnose pulmonary emboli while reducing radiation dose by approximately 71%. labels: #Aged#Aorta#Computed Tomography Angiography#Contrast Media#Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation#Female#Humans#Lung#Male#Pulmonary Artery#Pulmonary Embolism#Radiation Exposure#Radiographic Image Interpretation, Computer-Assisted#Reference Standards'
b'HIV1-TAT interactive protein (TIP60) is a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor. However, the potential mechanisms endowing its tumor suppressor ability remain incompletely understood. It plays a vital role in virus-induced cancers where TIP60 down-regulates the expression of human papillomavirus (HPV) oncoprotein E6 which in turn destabilizes TIP60. This intrigued us to identify the role of TIP60, in the context of a viral infection, where it is targeted by oncoproteins. Through an array of molecular biology techniques such as Chromatin immunoprecipitation, expression analysis and mass spectrometry, we establish the hitherto unknown role of TIP60 in repressing the expression of the catalytic subunit of the human telomerase complex, TERT, a key driver for immortalization. TIP60 acetylates Sp1 at K639, thus inhibiting Sp1 binding to the TERT promoter. We identified that TIP60-mediated growth suppression of HPV-induced cervical cancer is mediated in part due to TERT repression through Sp1 acetylation. In summary, our study has identified a novel substrate for TIP60 catalytic activity and a unique repressive mechanism acting at the TERT promoter in virus-induced malignancies. labels: #Female#Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HeLa Cells#Histone Acetyltransferases#Humans#Lysine Acetyltransferase 5#Neoplasm Proteins#Response Elements#Sp1 Transcription Factor#Telomerase#Uterine Cervical Neoplasms'
b'How to identify protein complex is an important and challenging task in proteomics. It would make great contribution to our knowledge of molecular mechanism in cell life activities. However, the inherent organization and dynamic characteristic of cell system have rarely been incorporated into the existing algorithms for detecting protein complexes because of the limitation of protein-protein interaction (PPI) data produced by high throughput techniques. The availability of time course gene expression profile enables us to uncover the dynamics of molecular networks and improve the detection of protein complexes. In order to achieve this goal, this paper proposes a novel algorithm DCA (Dynamic Core-Attachment). It detects protein-complex core comprising of continually expressed and highly connected proteins in dynamic PPI network, and then the protein complex is formed by including the attachments with high adhesion into the core. The integration of core-attachment feature into the dynamic PPI network is responsible for the superiority of our algorithm. DCA has been applied on two different yeast dynamic PPI networks and the experimental results show that it performs significantly better than the state-of-the-art techniques in terms of prediction accuracy, hF-measure and statistical significance in biology. In addition, the identified complexes with strong biological significance provide potential candidate complexes for biologists to validate. labels: #Algorithms#Gene Regulatory Networks#Multiprotein Complexes#Protein Interaction Maps#Saccharomyces cerevisiae#Saccharomyces cerevisiae Proteins'
b'Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have an increased incidence of cardiovascular events (CVE). The contribution of subclinical atheromatosis extent, including femoral arteries, to CVE in CKD patients has not been investigated. In this paper, we examine the prognostic value of subclinical atheromatosis extent, assessed as the number of arterial territories with plaque, in predicting the incidence of major and minor CVE. The NEFRONA is a multicenter, prospective cohorts study that recruited 2445 CKD subjects and 559 controls, free from previous cardiovascular disease, in 81 medical centers across Spain. The presence of atheroma plaque was assessed by arterial ultrasound in ten arterial territories (carotid and femoral). The predictive power of the presence or absence of atheroma plaque in any territory was compared with the quantification of atheroma extent as the number of territories with plaque. During the median follow up of 48 months, 216 CVE were reported. Factors predicting the incidence of CVE in the whole cohort were being male, CKD patient, lower levels of 25(OH) vitamin D, higher levels of cholesterol and the extent of subclinical atheromatosis, yielding a higher concordance (C) index than the presence or absence of plaque. In stratified analysis including specific factors of CKD patients not on dialysis, the variables predicting CVE were the same as in the whole cohort, plus higher levels of potassium. Again, the inclusion of the information about atheromatosis as number of territories with plaque, presented a higher C index than the presence or absence of plaque. In the dialysis population, significant variables were older age, diabetes, dialysis vintage and higher levels of cholesterol and phosphate. In this case the higher C index was obtained with the information about plaque presence. Subclinical atheromatosis extent, including femoral arteries, influences CVE in CKD and its detection could improve the prediction of cardiovascular events. labels: #Aged#Atherosclerosis#Cohort Studies#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Models, Biological#Multivariate Analysis#Regression Analysis#Renal Dialysis#Renal Insufficiency, Chronic#Ultrasonography'
b'The safety of hydroxyethyl starches (HES) is still under debate. No studies have compared different dosing regimens of HES in cardiac surgery. We analyzed whether the incidence of Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) differed taking into account a weight-adjusted cumulative dose of HES 6% 130/0.4 for perioperative fluid therapy. This retrospective cohort study included all adult patients undergoing elective or emergency cardiac surgery with or without cardiopulmonary bypass. Exclusion criteria were patients on renal replacement therapy (RRT), cardiac trauma surgery, heart transplantation, patients with ventricular assist devices, subjects who required a surgical revision for bleeding and those whose medical records were incomplete. Primary endpoint was AKI following the creatinine based RIFLE classification. Secondary endpoints were 30-day mortality and RRT. Patients were divided into 2 groups whether they had received a cumulative HES dose of<30 mL/kg (Low HES) or \xe2\x89\xa5 30 mL/kg (High HES) during the intra- and postoperative period. A total of 1501 patients were analyzed with 983 patients in the Low HES and 518 subjects in the High HES group. 185 (18.8%) patients in the Low HES and 119 (23.0%) patients in the High HES group developed AKI (P = 0.06). In multivariable regression analysis the dose of HES administered per weight was not associated with AKI. After case-control matching 217 patients were analyzed in each group. AKI occurred in 39 (18.0%) patients in the Low HES and 50 (23.0%) patients in the High HES group (P = 0.19). In conditional regression analysis performed on the matched groups a lower weight-adjusted dose of HES was significantly associated with a reduced incidence of AKI [(Odds Ratio (95% CI) = 0.825 (0.727-0.936); P = 0.003]. In the absence of any safety study the cumulative dose of modern HES in cardiac surgery should be kept less than 30 mL/kg. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Aged#Cardiopulmonary Bypass#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Fluid Therapy#Heart Transplantation#Heart-Assist Devices#Humans#Hydroxyethyl Starch Derivatives#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Renal Replacement Therapy#Reoperation#Risk Factors#Thoracic Surgical Procedures'
b'Cellular FLICE inhibitory protein (c-FLIP) is a key anti-apoptotic regulator that associates with the signaling complex downstream of NF-\xce\xbaB, negatively interfering with apoptotic signaling. The role of c-FLIP downregulation by negative regulation of NF-\xce\xbaB signaling during apoptosis is poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that NF-\xce\xbaB-mediated c-FLIPL negatively regulates the JNK signaling pathway, and that cordycepin treatment of human renal cancer cells leads to apoptosis induction through c-FLIPL inhibition. TNF-\xce\xb1-induced inflammatory microenvironments stimulated NF-\xce\xbaB signaling and the c-FLIP long form (c-FLIPL) in TK-10 cells. Specifically, cordycepin inhibited TNF-\xce\xb1-mediated NF-\xce\xbaB activation, which induced renal cancer cell apoptosis. Cordycepin downregulated GADD45B and c-FLIPL, but upregulated MKK7 and phospho-JNK, by preventing nuclear mobilization of NF-\xce\xbaB. Furthermore, siRNA-mediated knockdown of GADD45B in cordycepin-treated TK-10 cells considerably increased MKK7 compared to cordycepin alone. siRNA-mediated knockdown of c-FLIPL prevented TNF-\xce\xb1-induced JNK inactivation, whereas c-FLIPL overexpression inhibited cordycepin-mediated JNK activation. The JNK inhibitor SP600125 strongly inhibited Bax expression. In nude mice, cordycepin significantly decreased tumor volume. Taken together, the results indicate that cordycepin inhibits TNF-\xce\xb1-mediated NF-\xce\xbaB/GADD45B signaling, which activates the MKK7-JNK signaling pathway through inhibition of c-FLIPL expression, thus inducing TK-10 cell apoptosis. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Differentiation#Apoptosis#CASP8 and FADD-Like Apoptosis Regulating Protein#Carcinoma, Renal Cell#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Movement#Cell Survival#Deoxyadenosines#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#HEK293 Cells#Humans#Inflammation#JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases#Kidney Neoplasms#MAP Kinase Kinase 7#MAP Kinase Signaling System#Male#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Mice, Nude#NF-kappa B#Nitric Oxide#Phosphorylation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#Up-Regulation#bcl-2-Associated X Protein'
b'Freezing is a defensive response to acute stress that is associated with coping and alterations in attentional processing. However, it remains unclear whether individuals in high risk professions, who are skilled at making rapid decisions in emergency situations, show altered threat-induced freezing. Here we investigated the effect of incident experience in a high risk profession on freezing. Additionally, we explored whether any effect of incident experience on freezing would be different for profession-related and -unrelated threat. Forty experienced and inexperienced firefighters were presented neutral, pleasant, related-unpleasant, and unrelated-unpleasant pictures in a passive viewing task. Postural sway and heart rate were assessed to determine freezing. Both postural and heart rate data evidenced reduced freezing upon unpleasant pictures in the experienced versus the inexperienced group. Relatedness of the unpleasant pictures did not modulate these effects. These findings indicate that higher incident experience relates to decreased threat-induced freezing, at least in a passive task context. This might suggest that primary defense responses are malleable through experience. Finally, these findings demonstrate the potential of using animal to human translational approaches to investigate defensive behaviors in relation to incident experience in high risk professions and stimulate future research on the role of freezing in resilience and coping. labels: #Adult#Arousal#Demography#Firefighters#Freezing Reaction, Cataleptic#Heart Rate#Humans#Immobility Response, Tonic#Male#Postural Balance'
b'SUMO proteins are important post-translational modifiers involved in multiple cellular pathways in eukaryotes, especially during the different developmental stages in multicellular organisms. The nematode C. elegans is a well known model system for studying metazoan development and has a single SUMO homolog, SMO-1. Interestingly, SMO-1 modification is linked to embryogenesis and development in the nematode. However, high-resolution information about SMO-1 and the mechanism of its conjugation is lacking. In this work, we report the high-resolution three dimensional structure of SMO-1 solved by NMR spectroscopy. SMO-1 has flexible N-terminal and C-terminal tails on either side of a rigid beta-grasp folded core. While the sequence of SMO-1 is more similar to SUMO1, the electrostatic surface features of SMO-1 resemble more with SUMO2/3. SMO-1 can bind to typical SUMO Interacting Motifs (SIMs). SMO-1 can also conjugate to a typical SUMOylation consensus site as well as to its natural substrate HMR-1. Poly-SMO-1 chains were observed in-vitro even though SMO-1 lacks any consensus SUMOylation site. Typical deSUMOylation enzymes like Senp2 can cleave the poly-SMO-1 chains. Despite being a single gene, the SMO-1 structure allows it to function in a large repertoire of signaling pathways involving SUMO in C. elegans. Structural and functional features of SMO-1 studies described here will be useful to understand its role in development. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Cadherins#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy#Models, Molecular#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#SUMO-1 Protein#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Solutions#Static Electricity#Sumoylation#Time Factors'
b'Previous genome wide association studies (GWAS) identified associations of multiple common variants with diastolic and systolic blood pressure traits in adults. However, the contribution of these loci to variations of blood pressure in early life is unclear. We assessed the child and parental contributions of 33 GWAS single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for blood pressure in 1,525 participants (515 children, 406 mothers and 237 fathers) of the Family Atherosclerosis Monitoring In early life (FAMILY) study followed-up for 5 years. Two genotype scores for systolic (29 SNPs) and diastolic (24 SNPs) blood pressure were built. Linear mixed-effect regressions showed significant association between rs1378942 in CSK and systolic blood pressure (\xce\xb2 = 0.98\xc2\xb10.46, P = 3.4\xc3\x9710-2). The child genotype scores for diastolic and systolic blood pressure were not associated in children. Nominally significant parental genetic effects were found between the SNPs rs11191548 (CYP17A1) (paternal, \xce\xb2 = 2.78\xc2\xb11.49, P = 6.1\xc3\x9710-2 for SBP and \xce\xb2 = 3.60\xc2\xb11.24, P = 3.7\xc3\x9710-3 for DBP), rs17367504 (MTHFR) (paternal, \xce\xb2 = 2.42\xc2\xb10.93, P = 9.3\xc3\x9710-3 for SBP and \xce\xb2 = 1.89\xc2\xb10.80, P = 1.8\xc3\x9710-2 for DBP and maternal, \xce\xb2 = -1.32\xc2\xb10.60, P = 2.9\xc3\x9710-2 and \xce\xb2 = -1.97\xc2\xb10.77, P = 1.0\xc3\x9710-2, for SBP and DBP respectively) and child blood pressure. Our study supports the view that adult GWAS loci have a limited impact on blood pressure during the five first years of life. The parental genetic effects observed on blood pressure in children may suggest epigenetic mechanisms in the transmission of the risk of hypertension. Further replication is needed to confirm our results. labels: #Adult#Blood Pressure#Child, Preschool#Female#Genetic Markers#Genome-Wide Association Study#Humans#Hypertension#Infant#Male#Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase (NADPH2)#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Risk Factors#Steroid 17-alpha-Hydroxylase#src-Family Kinases'
b'Sulfites and other preservatives are considered food additives to limit bacterial contamination, and are generally regarded as safe for consumption by governmental regulatory agencies at concentrations up to 5000 parts per million (ppm). Consumption of bactericidal and bacteriostatic drugs have been shown to damage beneficial bacteria in the human gut and this damage has been associated with several diseases. In the present study, bactericidal and bacteriostatic effects of two common food preservatives, sodium bisulfite and sodium sulfite, were tested on four known beneficial bacterial species common as probiotics and members of the human gut microbiota. Lactobacillus species casei, plantarum and rhamnosus, and Streptococcus thermophilus were grown under optimal environmental conditions to achieve early log phase at start of experiments. Bacterial cultures were challenged with sulfite concentrations ranging between 10 and 3780 ppm for six hours. To establish a control, a culture of each species was inoculated into media containing no sulfite preservative. By two hours of exposure, a substantial decrease (or no increase) of cell numbers (based on OD600 readings) were observed for all bacteria types, in concentrations of sulfites between 250-500 ppm, compared to cells in sulfite free media. Further testing using serial dilution and drop plates identified bactericidal effects in concentrations ranging between 1000-3780 ppm on all the Lactobacillus species by 4 hours of exposure and bactericidal effects on S. thermophilus in 2000ppm NaHSO3 after 6 hours of exposure. labels: #Bacteria#Colony Count, Microbial#Food Safety#Gastrointestinal Microbiome#Inhibitory Concentration 50#Microbial Viability#Species Specificity#Sulfites'
b'A cross between IR64 (high-yielding but drought-susceptible) and Aday Sel (drought-tolerant) rice cultivars yielded a stable line with enhanced grain yield under drought screening field trials at International Rice Research Institute. The major effect qDTY4.1 drought tolerance and yield QTL was detected in the IR77298-14-1-2-10 Backcrossed Inbred Line (BIL) and its IR87705-7-15-B Near Isogenic Line (NIL) with 93.9% genetic similarity to IR64. Although rice yield is extremely susceptible to water stress at reproductive stage, currently, there is only one report on the detection of drought-responsive microRNAs in inflorescence tissue of a Japonica rice line. In this study, more drought-responsive microRNAs were identified in the inflorescence tissues of IR64, IR77298-14-1-2-10 and IR87705-7-15-B via next-generation sequencing. Among the 32 families of inflorescence-specific non-conserved microRNAs that were identified, 22 families were up-regulated in IR87705-7-15-B. Overall 9 conserved and 34 non-conserved microRNA families were found as drought-responsive in rice inflorescence with 5 conserved and 30 non-conserved families induced in the IR87705-7-15-B. The observation of more drought-responsive non-conserved microRNAs may imply their prominence over conserved microRNAs in drought response mechanisms of rice inflorescence. Gene Ontology annotation analysis on the target genes of drought-responsive microRNAs identified in IR87705-7-15-B revealed over-representation of biological processes including development, signalling and response to stimulus. Particularly, four inflorescence-specific microRNAs viz. osa-miR5485, osa-miR5487, osa-miR5492 and osa-miR5517, and two non-inflorescence specific microRNAs viz. osa-miR169d and osa-miR169f.2 target genes that are involved in flower or embryonic development. Among them, osa-miR169d, osa-miR5492 and osa-miR5517 are related to flowering time control. It is also worth mentioning that osa-miR2118 and osa-miR2275, which are implicated in the biosynthesis of rice inflorescence-specific small interfering RNAs, were induced in IR87705-7-15-B but repressed in IR77298-14-1-2-10. Further, gene search within qDTY4.1 QTL region had identified multiple copies of NBS-LRR resistance genes (potential target of osa-miR2118), subtilisins and genes implicated in stomatal movement, ABA metabolism and cuticular wax biosynthesis. labels: #Droughts#Flowers#Gene Expression Regulation, Plant#Genotype#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Inflorescence#MicroRNAs#Molecular Sequence Annotation#Oryza#Plant Leaves#Plant Roots#Quantitative Trait Loci#Transcriptome'
b'Age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) is the leading cause of blindness in developed world but there are still much unknown facts about the disease itself. Age, genetic factors and smoking are the three main risk factors for the development of ARMD, but the exact pathophysiological\nmechanism of the disease remains unknown. Current high resolution optical coherence tomography devices provide ample new information on retinal layers, drusen characteristics and their interaction. In this study, we analyzed 44 eyes with drusiform dry ARMD using high resolution opticalcoherence tomography over a 2-year period. Our results showed a statistically significant increase in drusen number in both females and males in the 2-year period. On average, increment by 4 and 5 drusen per eye during the 2-year period was recorded in female and male patients with drusiform dry\nARMD, respectively. Also, statistical analysis of the central retinal thickness showed that women with drusiform dry ARMD had a statistically significantly thinner macula than their male counterparts. labels: #Aged#Disease Progression#Female#Fluorescein Angiography#Humans#Macular Degeneration#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Retina#Retinal Drusen#Retinal Vessels#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Ventilator-associated pneumonia is a frequent complication in intensive care surgical patients, particularly those with high severity scores on admission. We studied the incidence and clinical outcome of ventilator-associated pneumonia among patients undergoing major general surgeryprocedures and those undergoing cadaveric liver transplantation in our hospital. Patients with the intensive care unit stay longer than four days having undergone surgery or transplantation and mechanically ventilated for more than 48 hours were included in the study. Ventilator-associated pneumonia\ndiagnosis was based on a combination of radiological signs (progressive infiltrate on chest radiograph), clinical signs (fever>38.3 \xc2\xb0C, leukocytes>12\xc3\x9710(9)/mL) and microbiological data (positive culture from tracheal aspiration>10(5) or bronchoalveolar lavage>104 colonies/mL). Medical records of\n1037 patients were reviewed and 157 patients were found to have been mechanically ventilated for more than 48 hours: 62 transplanted and 95 non-transplanted. Only 39 (24.84%) patients matched the criteria for ventilator-associated pneumonia. There were no differences in sex, age, duration ofmechanical ventilation, length of stay or outcome between the two groups. However, the main difference was the mean severity score on admission (Simplified Acute Physiology Score II) which was higher among non-transplant patients (42\xc2\xb116 vs. 31\xc2\xb19; p=0.03). Gram-negative bacteria were the\nleading causative agents (82.03%) and were multidrug-resistant. In the intensive care surgical population, transplantation per se does not seem to increase patient risk for either ventilator-associated pneumonia acquisition or worse outcomes. labels: #Aged#Croatia#Female#Humans#Incidence#Intensive Care Units#Liver Transplantation#Male#Middle Aged#Pneumonia, Ventilator-Associated#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Respiration, Artificial#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors'
b'Patient safety culture (PCS) has a crucial impact on the safety practices of healthcare delivery systems. The purpose of this study was to assess the state of PSC in Croatian hospitals and compare it with hospitals in the United States. The study was conducted in three public general\nhospitals in Croatia using the Croatian translation of the Hospital Survey of Patient Safety Culture (HSOPSC). A comparison of the results from Croatian and American hospitals was performed using a T-square test. We found statistically significant differences in all 12 PSC dimensions. Croatianresponses were more positive in the two dimensions of Handoff s and Transitions and Overall Perceptions of Patient Safety. In the remaining ten dimensions, Croatian responses were less positive than in US hospitals, with the most prominent areas being Nonpunitive Response to Error, Frequency of\nEvents Reported, Communication Openness, Teamwork within Units, Feedback&Communication about Error, Management Support for Patient Safety, and Staffing. Our findings show that PSC is significantly lower in Croatian than in American hospitals, particularly in the areas of Nonpunitive\nResponse to Error, Leadership, Teamwork, Communication Openness and Staffing. This suggests that a more comprehensive system for the improvement of patient safety within the framework of the Croatian healthcare system needs to be developed. Our findings also help confirm that HSOPSC is auseful and appropriate tool for the assessment of PSC. HSOPSC highlights the PSC components in need of improvement and should be considered for use in national and international benchmarking. labels: #Attitude of Health Personnel#Croatia#Hospitals#Humans#Organizational Culture#Organizational Innovation#Patient Safety#Safety Management#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'The aim of the study was to assess the influence of gap shape on biomechanical\nresults in extra-articular distal humeral fracture: with contact on the posterior part (by anterior gap)and contact on ulnar column (by radial gap). The goal was to examine if and to what extent did\ndisplacements decrease in comparison with previously examined parallel gap without bony contact.The finite element analysis on the three different plate constructs was performed, i.e. parallel, perpendicular\nand newly designed Y shape plate were considered. Displacements were measured on articularsurface and gap point. The most visible decrease of maximum displacements in the distal part of the\nmodel was detected in the Y plate model with axial loading: in case of anterior gap 58.5% and especiallyat radially formed gap 60.9%. Similarly, at axial loading, displacement at the analyzed point on\nfracture gap most significantly decreased in Y plate model (by 49.4%) at posterior bony contact. Moreover,the latter showed displacement decrease by 68.5% at ulnar bone contact. Furthermore, if a longer\nradial plate than the ulnar one was used, varus stress could have been avoided. Study results suggestedthat sufficient stability could be ensured with the newly designed Y shape plate. labels: #Biomechanical Phenomena#Bone Plates#Bone Screws#Finite Element Analysis#Fracture Fixation, Internal#Humans#Humeral Fractures#Weight-Bearing'
b'Elderly people, especially those institutionalized in long-term care facilities, are at\nrisk of various oral diseases. The aim of the study was to determine the incidence of hyposalivation andcolonization/oral fungal infection of oral cavity with yeasts, as well as dental status in institutionalized\nand non-institutionalized elderly. The study included 280 institutionalized and 61 non-institutionalizedelderly people. Salivary flow rate, oral colonization with yeasts/oral infection and dental status\nwere assessed and compared between the groups. The institutionalized elderly had a significantlylower salivary flow rate (p=0.035). Oral colonization with yeasts was more frequently found in institutionalized\nelderly (p<0.001) as compared with non-institutionalized elderly. A negative correlation\nwas found between decreased salivary flow rate and oral yeast colonization and oral fungal infectionin both the institutionalized (rs=-0.58; p<0.05) and non-institutionalized (rs=-0.52; p<0.05) groups.\nA significant difference in DMFT index was observed between the two groups (p<0.001). A negative\ncorrelation between decreased salivary flow rate and dental status was found in both the institutionalized(rs=-0.22; p<0.05) and non-institutionalized (rs=-0.56; p<0.05) groups. The results revealed a\nsignificantly higher level of hyposalivation and oral yeast colonization and poorer dental status in theinstitutionalized group as compared with the non-institutionalized group of elderly people. labels: #Aged#Burning Mouth Syndrome#Candidiasis, Oral#Croatia#Female#Humans#Institutionalization#Male#Mouth Diseases#Mouth Mucosa#Nursing Homes#Oral Health#Saliva#Secretory Rate#Taste Disorders'
b'The aim of this study was to explore differences in the intensity of depressiveness,\nsleep disturbances and sleepiness between post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) patients and patientswith depression. A total of 170 patients were examined, including 120 PTSD patients and 50 patients\nwith depression. All participants completed the Beck Depression Inventory, Pittsburgh Sleep QualityIndex and Epworth Sleepiness Scale. The results showed difference in the subjective assessment of\nsleep quality between the war veterans with PTSD and civilians with depression, without significantdifferences between them in the level of depressiveness and sleepiness. Considering the fact that\ninsomnia can occur as an early, covert sign of both PTSD and depression and that differences in theintensity of sleep disturbances between the groups were established, the use of these and similarinstruments for the assessment of sleep quality can be useful in distinguishing patients with PTSD\nand depression, treatment of their sleep disturbances, and prevention of more severe symptoms in bothdiagnostic categories. labels: #Adult#Depression#Female#Health Status#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Severity of Illness Index#Sleep#Sleep Wake Disorders#Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic#Veterans'
b'Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common diseases of the central nervous system and usually occurs at the age when people would be expected to be in the prime of their sexual lives. In everyday practice, sexual dysfunction is underestimated because clinicians mostly concentrate\non the classic neurologic deficits and often overlook symptoms that can seriously affect the quality of life. Our study included 98 patients (42 men and 56 women, mean age 35\xc2\xb112 years) with relapse from our MS register, with established diagnosis of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis accordingto McDonald criteria. Patients completed the questionnaires (Sexual Satisfaction Scale, SSS and Beck Depression Scale BDS), and underwent neurological assessment (Expanded Disability Status Scale, EDSS). All patients were in the group with EDSS 2 to 4 points (mobile patients). There\nwas no statistically significant difference in BDS and SSS values according to EDSS score. Correlation coefficients were calculated (BDS and SSS) for men (p=0.42) and women (p=0.44), yielding positive correlation. There was no statistically significant difference in BDS and SSS values accordingto gender, disease duration or immunomodulatory therapy. In our group of patients, despite low EDSS score (fully ambulatory without aid, self sufficient patients) we found positive correlation between sexual dysfunction and depression, showing that even in such patients the quality of life can be\ndecreased. In conclusion, sexual dysfunction and depression are mostly under-recognized by neurologists because they are not part of routine testing; therefore, some additional questionnaires should be used in the evaluation in MS patients, even those with low EDSS score, in order to improve theirquality of life. labels: #Adult#Comorbidity#Disability Evaluation#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Sclerosis#Quality of Life#Sexual Behavior#Sexual Dysfunction, Physiological#Sexual Dysfunctions, Psychological#Surveys and Questionnaires'
b'The aim of the study was to determine the prevalence of metabolic syndrome factors in obese children by examining blood pressure, lipid status, disorders of glycoregulation, and parameters of insulin sensitivity and secretion. The survey was conducted as a cross sectional study. We\nanalyzed the results of obese children aged 7 to 16 years visiting Clinical Centre of Montenegro during the 2011-2015 period. Out of 173 children with elevated body mass index, 119 (68.8%) children were overweight, while first-degree obesity was recorded in 50 (28.9%) and second-degreeobesity in four (2.3%) children. High blood pressure was found in 35.2%, elevated cholesterol levels in 9.8% and elevated triglyceride levels in 8.09% of obese children. Oral glucose load testing revealed disturbing fasting glycemia in 4.76% and impaired glucose tolerance in 19.04% of obese children.\nHigh values of insulinemia two hours after glucose load were recorded in 35% of obese children. Study results showed the prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular diseases and metabolic disorders, especially carbohydrates and fat, to be very high in our population of obese children. This imposes the needof changing current mode of assessing dietary habits during general medical examinations, as well as to start recording and monitoring overweight children and those with pronounced obesity. labels: #Body Mass Index#Body Weight#Cardiovascular Diseases#Child#Female#Humans#Incidence#Male#Metabolic Syndrome#Pediatric Obesity#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Risk Reduction Behavior'
b'Fondaparinux has been shown to be as effective as low molecular weight heparin\nin orthopedic surgery, with no cases of heparin induced thrombocytopenia proven until today. Themain goal of this prospective randomized controlled trial was to define whether thromboprophylaxis\nin patients with primary osteoarthritis of the knee undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA) influencesclinical parameters in the same manner in patients receiving fondaparinux as in those receiving\nnadroparin during the first 7 postoperative days. Sixty patients with primary knee osteoarthritis underwentunilateral TKA performed by the same surgeon and were randomized into two groups of 30\npatients receiving either fondaparinux or nadroparin thromboprophylaxis. Patients were comparedaccording to the duration of operation, perioperative blood loss, laboratory results and clinical evaluation\nof the edema during the early postoperative period. No differences were found between thegroups in the mean duration of surgery, perioperative blood loss, and most of laboratory results. The\nlevel of urea was significantly lower in the nadroparin group on the first and second postoperative day.No cases of heparin induced thrombocytopenia, deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism were\nnoted during the study. Study results showed both fondaparinux and nadroparin to have the sameinfluence on clinical parameters during the first 7 postoperative days in patients undergoing TKA. labels: #Adult#Anticoagulants#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Factor Xa Inhibitors#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Nadroparin#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Polysaccharides#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'The incidence of pregnancy related diabetes has been steadily increasing during\nthe past decade. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the type and prevalence of gestationaldiabetes complications after implementing new diagnostic criteria for gestational diabetes. The\nincidence of gestational diabetes, maternal age, mode of delivery and birth weight were analyzed.Study patients were divided into three groups. The first group consisted of patients who gave birth\nduring 2005, the second group during 2011 and the third group during 2012. In 2005, the WorldHealth Organization criteria were used on diagnosing gestational diabetes, whereas in 2011 and 2012\nthe criteria issued by the International Association of Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups wereconsidered. There was no statistically significant difference among the groups according to maternal\nage, birth weight (p=0.203) and mode of delivery (p=0.883). Cesarean section was performed in about\n30% of deliveries in all groups combined. There was no significant difference in the number of neonatalhypertrophy (p=0.348), although the distribution of hypertrophy showed a tendency towards higher\nvalues in 2005. The incidence of gestational diabetes was 2.2% in 2005, 6.6% in 2011 and 12% in2012. In conclusion, difference in the incidence of pregnancy related diabetes appeared to have resulted\ndirectly from using different diagnostic criteria. The new criteria contributed to a relativelyhigher incidence of gestational diabetes but also achieved better gestational glycemic control and\nconsequently better fetal growth regulation. labels: #Adult#Birth Weight#Cesarean Section#Diabetes, Gestational#Female#Fetal Macrosomia#Gestational Age#Glucose Tolerance Test#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Pregnancy#Pregnancy Outcome#Premature Birth#Retrospective Studies#Young Adult'
b'Resistance to chemotherapeutics used in the treatment of urinary tract infection is\nincreasing throughout the world. Taking into account clinical experiences, as well as current bacterialresistance in Croatia and neighboring countries, the selection of antibiotic should be the optimal one.\nTreatment of urinary tract infection in children is particularly demanding due to their age and inclinationto severe systemic reaction and renal scarring. If parenteral antibiotics are administered initially,\nit should be switched to oral medication as soon as possible. Financial aspects of antimicrobial therapyare also very important with the main goal to seek the optimal cost/benefit ratio. Financial orientation\nmust appreciate the basic primum non nocere as a conditio sine qua non postulate as well. labels: #Anti-Bacterial Agents#Anti-Infective Agents, Urinary#Antibiotic Prophylaxis#Child#Child Welfare#Child, Preschool#Critical Pathways#Croatia#Drug Resistance, Microbial#Humans#Infant#Practice Guidelines as Topic#Urinary Tract Infections'
b'Physical activity (PA) during normal pregnancy has various positive effects on\npregnant women\xe2\x80\x99s health. Determination of the relationship between PA and health outcomes requiresaccurate measurement of PA in pregnant women. The purpose of this review is to provide a\nsummary of valid and reliable PA questionnaires for pregnant women. During 2013, Pubmed, OvidSPand Web of Science databases were searched for trials on measurement properties of PA questionnaires\nfor pregnant population. Six studies and four questionnaires met the inclusion criteria: PregnancyPhysical Activity Questionnaire, Modified Kaiser Physical Activity Survey, Short Pregnancy\nLeisure Time Physical Activity Questionnaire and Third Pregnancy Infection and Nutrition StudyPhysical Activity Questionnaire. Assessment of validity and reliability was performed using correlations\nof the scores in these questionnaires with objective measures and subjective measures (self-report)of PA, as well as test-retest reliability coefficients. Sample sizes included in analysis varied from\n45 to 177 subjects. The best validity and reliability characteristics (together with effect sizes) wereidentified for the Modified Kaiser Physical Activity Survey and Pregnancy Physical Activity Questionnaire\n(French, Vietnamese, standard). In conclusion, assessment of PA during pregnancy remainsa challenging and complex task. Questionnaires are a simple and effective, yet limited tool for assessing\nPA. labels: #Adult#Exercise#Female#Humans#Motor Activity#Pregnancy#Pregnant Women#Reproducibility of Results#Self Report#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b"Obtaining thermostable enzymes (thermozymes) is an important aspect of biotechnology. As thermophiles have adapted their genomes to high temperatures, their cloned genes' expression in mesophiles is problematic. This is mainly due to their high GC content, which leads to the formation of unfavorable secondary mRNA structures and codon usage in Escherichia coli (E. coli). RM.TthHB27I is a member of a family of bifunctional thermozymes, containing a restriction endonuclease (REase) and a methyltransferase (MTase) in a single polypeptide. Thermus thermophilus HB27 (T. thermophilus) produces low amounts of RM.TthHB27I with a unique DNA cleavage specificity. We have previously cloned the wild type (wt) gene into E. coli, which increased the production of RM.TthHB27I over 100-fold. However, its enzymatic activities were extremely low for an ORF expressed under a T7 promoter. We have designed and cloned a fully synthetic tthHB27IRM gene, using a modified 'codon randomization' strategy. Codons with a high GC content and of low occurrence in E. coli were eliminated. We incorporated a stem-loop circuit, devised to negatively control the expression of this highly toxic gene by partially hiding the ribosome-binding site (RBS) and START codon in mRNA secondary structures. Despite having optimized 59% of codons, the amount of produced RM.TthHB27I protein was similar for both recombinant tthHB27IRM gene variants. Moreover, the recombinant wt RM.TthHB27I is very unstable, while the RM.TthHB27I resulting from the expression of the synthetic gene exhibited enzymatic activities and stability equal to the native thermozyme isolated from T. thermophilus. Thus, we have developed an efficient purification protocol using the synthetic tthHB27IRM gene variant only. This suggests the effect of co-translational folding kinetics, possibly affected by the frequency of translational errors. The availability of active RM.TthHB27I is of practical importance in molecular biotechnology, extending the palette of available REase specificities. labels: #Bacterial Proteins#Base Composition#Base Sequence#Cloning, Molecular#Codon#DNA Restriction Enzymes#Enzyme Stability#Escherichia coli#Gene Expression#Genes, Synthetic#Hot Temperature#Kinetics#Methyltransferases#Nucleic Acid Conformation#Promoter Regions, Genetic#RNA, Messenger#Recombinant Proteins#Structure-Activity Relationship#Thermus thermophilus"
b'Skeletal development and mineralization are essential processes driven by the coordinated action of neural signals, circulating molecules and local factors. Our previous studies revealed that the novel neuropeptide Pth4, synthesized by hypothalamic cells, was involved in bone metabolism via phosphate regulation in adult zebrafish. Here, we investigate the role of pth4 during skeletal development using single-cell resolution, two-photon laser ablation of Pth4:eGFP-expressing cells and confocal imaging in vivo. Using a stable transgenic Pth4:eGFP zebrafish line, we identify Pth4:eGFP-expressing cells as post-mitotic neurons. After targeted ablation of eGFP-expressing cells in the hypothalamus, the experimental larvae exhibited impaired mineralization of the craniofacial bones whereas cartilage development was normal. In addition to a decrease in pth4 transcript levels, we noted altered expression of phex and entpd5, genes associated with phosphate homeostasis and mineralization, as well as a delay in the expression of osteoblast differentiation markers such as sp7 and sparc. Taken together, these results suggest that Pth4-expressing hypothalamic neurons participate in the regulation of bone metabolism, possibly through regulating phosphate balance during zebrafish development. labels: #Animals#Animals, Genetically Modified#Bone Density#Bone and Bones#Calcification, Physiologic#Calcinosis#Embryo, Nonmammalian#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Genes, Reporter#Green Fluorescent Proteins#Hypothalamus#Larva#Laser Therapy#Neurons#Osteoblasts#Osteogenesis#Osteonectin#PHEX Phosphate Regulating Neutral Endopeptidase#Parathyroid Hormone-Related Protein#Phosphates#Pyrophosphatases#Signal Transduction#Sp7 Transcription Factor#Transcription Factors#Xenopus Proteins#Zebrafish#Zebrafish Proteins'
b"AIM: We analyzed the cross-sectional and prospective relationships between the accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGE), assessed by skin autofluorescence (AF) and frailty and its components.METHODS: A total of 423 participants of the Bordeaux sample of the Three-City study 75 years of age or older in 2009-2010 were included in the cross-sectional analysis. Among them, 255 initially non-frail participants were re-examined 4 years later. Skin AF (arbitrary units (AU)) was measured using the AGE Reader. Frailty was defined using Fried's criteria. Associations were assessed with logistic regression models.RESULTS: Mean skin AF at baseline was 2.81 \xc2\xb10.68 AU and 16.8% participants were frail. Adjusted for sociodemographic and health characteristics, skin AF was associated neither with prevalent frailty as a whole (Odds Ratio (OR) = 1.2; 95% Confidence Interval: 0.8-1.9) nor with any of its components. Among 255 non-frail participants, 32 became frail over 4 years. In multivariate analyses, skin AF was not associated with incident frailty as a whole (OR = 1.0; 0.5-2.0) but with a doubled risk of incident exhaustion (OR = 2.0; 1.2-3.6) and low energy expenditure (OR = 2.0; 1.1-3.7). No association was observed with other criteria.CONCLUSION: In French older community-dwellers aged 75 years and over, the accumulation of AGEs evaluated by skin AF was not associated with prevalent or incident frailty but with the 4-year risk of exhaustion and low energy expenditure. Further studies with larger samples are needed to confirm our results. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Aging#Cross-Sectional Studies#Fatigue#Female#Frail Elderly#France#Geriatric Assessment#Glycation End Products, Advanced#Humans#Independent Living#Logistic Models#Male#Odds Ratio#Optical Imaging#Prospective Studies#Risk Factors#Skin#Skin Aging"
b'OBJECTIVE: There are conflicting data regarding the use of end-tidal carbon dioxide (PetCO2) measurement in preterm infants. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of different dead space to tidal volume ratios (VD/VT) on the correlation between PetCO2 and arterial carbon dioxide pressure (PaCO2) in ventilated preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS).METHODS: We enrolled ventilated preterm infants (with assist control mode or synchronous intermittent mandatory mode) with RDS who were treated with surfactant in this prospective study. Simultaneous PetCO2 and PaCO2 data pairs were obtained from ventilated neonates monitored using mainstream capnography. Data obtained before and after surfactant treatment were also analyzed.RESULTS: One-hundred and one PetCO2 and PaCO2 pairs from 34 neonates were analyzed. There was a moderate correlation between PetCO2 and PaCO2 values (r = 0.603, P<0.01). The correlation was higher in the post-surfactant treatment group (r = 0.786, P<0.01) than the pre-surfactant treatment group (r = 0.235). The values of PaCO2 and PetCO2 obtained based on the treatment stage of surfactant therapy were 42.4 \xc2\xb1 8.6 mmHg and 32.6 \xc2\xb1 7.2 mmHg, respectively, in pre-surfactant treatment group, and 37.8 \xc2\xb1 10.3 mmHg and 33.7 \xc2\xb1 9.3 mmHg, respectively, in the post-surfactant treatment group. Furthermore, we found a significant decrease in VD/VT in the post-surfactant treatment group when compared to the pre-surfactant treatment group (P = 0.003).CONCLUSIONS: VD/VT decreased significantly after surfactant therapy and the correlation between PetCO2 and PaCO2 was higher after surfactant therapy in preterm infants with RDS. labels: #Blood Gas Analysis#Carbon Dioxide#Female#Gestational Age#Humans#Infant, Low Birth Weight#Infant, Newborn#Infant, Premature#Male#Monitoring, Physiologic#Partial Pressure#Prospective Studies#Pulmonary Surfactants#Respiration, Artificial#Respiratory Dead Space#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Newborn#Tidal Volume'
b'It has been proposed that some non-retroviral RNA virus genes are integrated into vertebrate genomes. Endogenous filovirus-like elements (EFLs) have been discovered in some mammalian genomes. However, their potential roles in ebolavirus infection are unclear. A filovirus VP35-like element (mlEFL35) is found in the little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) genome. Putative mlEFL35-derived protein (mlEFL35p) contains nearly full-length amino acid sequences corresponding to ebolavirus VP35. Ebola virus VP35 has been shown to bind double-stranded RNA, leading to inhibition of type I interferon (IFN) production, and is also known as a viral polymerase cofactor that is essential for viral RNA transcription/replication. In this study, we transiently expressed mlEFL35p in human kidney cells and investigated its biological functions. We first found that mlEFL35p was coimmunoprecipitated with itself and ebolavirus VP35s but not with the viral nucleoprotein. Then the biological functions of mlEFL35p were analyzed by comparing it to ebolavirus VP35s. We found that the expression of mlEFL35p significantly inhibited human IFN-\xce\xb2 promoter activity as well as VP35s. By contrast, expression of mlEFL35p did not support viral RNA transcription/replication and indeed slightly decrease the reporter gene expression in a minigenome assay. These results suggest that mlEFL35p potentially acts as an IFN antagonist but not a polymerase cofactor. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Chiroptera#Ebolavirus#Gene Expression#Genes, Reporter#HEK293 Cells#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Humans#Interferon-beta#Luciferases#Nucleoproteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Protein Binding#RNA, Double-Stranded#Recombinant Proteins#Sequence Alignment#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Viral Core Proteins#Virus Replication'
b'While urban systems demonstrate high spatial heterogeneity, many urban planning, economic and political decisions heavily rely on a deep understanding of local neighborhood contexts. We show that the structure of 311 Service Requests enables one possible way of building a unique signature of the local urban context, thus being able to serve as a low-cost decision support tool for urban stakeholders. Considering examples of New York City, Boston and Chicago, we demonstrate how 311 Service Requests recorded and categorized by type in each neighborhood can be utilized to generate a meaningful classification of locations across the city, based on distinctive socioeconomic profiles. Moreover, the 311-based classification of urban neighborhoods can present sufficient information to model various socioeconomic features. Finally, we show that these characteristics are capable of predicting future trends in comparative local real estate prices. We demonstrate 311 Service Requests data can be used to monitor and predict socioeconomic performance of urban neighborhoods, allowing urban stakeholders to quantify the impacts of their interventions. labels: #Boston#Censuses#Chicago#City Planning#Ecology#Forecasting#Housing#Humans#Machine Learning#New York City#Residence Characteristics#Socioeconomic Factors#Spatial Analysis#Urban Population'
b'Thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection are life-threatening complications of Marfan syndrome (MFS). Studies of human and mouse aortic samples from late stage MFS demonstrate increased TGF-\xce\xb2 activation/signaling and diffuse matrix changes. However, the role of the aortic smooth muscle cell (SMC) phenotype in early aneurysm formation in MFS has yet to be fully elucidated. As our objective, we investigated whether an altered aortic SMC phenotype plays a role in aneurysm formation in MFS. We describe previously unrecognized concordant findings in the aortas of a murine model of MFS, mgR, during a critical and dynamic phase of early development. Using Western blot, gelatin zymography, and histological analysis, we demonstrated that at postnatal day (PD) 7, before aortic TGF-\xce\xb2 levels are increased, there is elastic fiber fragmentation/disorganization and increased levels of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Compared to wild type (WT) littermates, aortic SMCs in mgR mice express higher levels of contractile proteins suggesting a switch to a more mature contractile phenotype. In addition, tropoelastin levels are decreased in mgR mice, a finding consistent with a premature switch to a contractile phenotype. Proliferation assays indicate a decrease in the proliferation rate of mgR cultured SMCs compared to WT SMCs. KLF4, a regulator of smooth muscle cell phenotype, was decreased in aortic tissue of mgR mice. Finally, overexpression of KLF4 partially reversed this phenotypic change in the Marfan SMCs. This study indicates that an early phenotypic switch appears to be associated with initiation of important metabolic changes in SMCs that contribute to subsequent pathology in MFS. labels: #Animals#Aorta, Thoracic#Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic#Cell Differentiation#Cell Proliferation#Elastic Tissue#Extracellular Matrix#Gene Expression Regulation#Humans#Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors#Marfan Syndrome#Matrix Metalloproteinase 2#Matrix Metalloproteinase 9#Mice#Mice, Transgenic#Myocytes, Smooth Muscle#Phenotype#Primary Cell Culture#Signal Transduction#Transforming Growth Factor beta#Tropoelastin'
b"As the detrimental health effects of sedentary behaviour are well established, insight into the individual and environmental factors that influence adults' sedentary behaviour is needed. Most studies to date rely on self-reported measures of sedentary time. Therefore, the aim of the current study was to examine individual and environmental correlates of objectively measured sedentary time in Dutch and Belgian adults. Between March and August 2014, Belgian (n = 133) and Dutch (n = 223) adults, recruited as sub-sample of the SPOTLIGHT survey, wore an ActiGraph accelerometer to provide objectively measured sedentary and moderate to vigorous physical activity time. Participants completed a questionnaire assessing sociodemographic (country of residence, age, gender and educational level), lifestyle (sleep, smoking, sugar-containing beverage consumption, alcohol intake), health (body mass index, self-rated health), work (employment status and type of work), happiness, physical environmental (owning a car, number of screens, socioeconomic status and residential density) and social environmental factors (social network, social cohesion). Univariate and multivariable regression analyses showed that Belgian participants had a lower odds of being sedentary for at least 9 hours per day compared to Dutch participants. Women, older participants and those meeting the WHO recommendation for physical activity were also less likely to sit for 9 hours or more per day. Participants doing (heavy) manual work or being in education, homemaker, unemployed had lower odds of being sedentary for at least 9 hours per day compared to participants with a sitting job. Those with a higher self-reported social network also had lower odds for sedentary time. No associations between physical and other social environmental characteristics and sedentary time were found. Our findings add to the growing evidence of factors associated with prolonged sedentary time in adults. These findings may be used to inform the development of strategies and interventions aimed at reducing sedentary time, and to identify high risk groups. labels: #Accelerometry#Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Belgium#Cross-Sectional Studies#Employment#Exercise#Female#Humans#Leisure Activities#Male#Middle Aged#Netherlands#Risk Reduction Behavior#Sedentary Lifestyle#Self Report#Social Class#Social Networking#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'Despite global efforts to improve maternal health, many developing countries including Pakistan have failed to achieve the target of a 75% reduction in maternal deaths by 2015. Addressing socioeconomic inequalities in access to emergency obstetric care is crucial for reducing the maternal mortality rate. This study was done to examine the time trends and socioeconomic inequalities in the utilization of cesarean section (C-section) in Pakistan during 1990-2013. We used data from the Pakistan Demographic and Health Surveys (PDHS) conducted during 1990 to 2013. All these surveys are nationally representative surveys of ever-married women aged 15-49 years with a sample size of 6611, 10,023, and 13,558 women in 1990-1991, 2006-2007, and 2012-2013, respectively, with an overall response rate of over 90%. The unit of analysis for this study was women with their most recent live birth in the five years preceding the surveys. Bivariate analyses and multivariable logistic regression models were employed to investigate the prevalence of cesarean sections according to selected sociodemographic characteristics of women. C-section rates were found to have increased during this period, with an especially significant rise from 2.7% in 1990-1991 to 15.8% in 2012-2013 with lower utilization among the non-educated women (7.5%), compared with the women with higher education (40.3%). C-section rates ranged from 5.5% in the poorest women to 35.3% in the richest women. Only 11.5% of the rural women had a C-section compared to 25.6% of the urban women. A greater likelihood of having a cesarean section was observed in the richest, highly educated, and urban-living women while there was no significant difference observed in cesarean section rates between the private and public sectors in all three surveys. To improve maternal health, routine monitoring and evaluation of the provision of emergency obstetric services are needed to address the underuse of C-section in poor and rural areas and overuse in rich and urban areas. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Cesarean Section#Female#Health Services Accessibility#Healthcare Disparities#Humans#Maternal Health Services#Middle Aged#Pakistan#Pregnancy#Rural Population#Socioeconomic Factors#Urban Population'
b'BACKGROUND: Recurrent influenza outbreak has been a concern for government health institutions in Taiwan. Over 10% of the population is infected by influenza viruses every year, and the infection has caused losses to both health and the economy. Approximately three million free vaccine doses are ordered and administered to high-risk populations at the beginning of flu season to control the disease. The government recommends sharing and redistributing vaccine inventories when shortages occur. While this policy intends to increase inventory flexibility, and has been proven as widely valuable, its impact on vaccine availability has not been previously reported.MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study developed an inventory model adapted to vaccination protocols to evaluate government recommended polices under different levels of vaccine production. Demands were uncertain and stratified by ages and locations according to the demographic data in Taiwan.RESULTS: When vaccine supply is sufficient, sharing pediatric vaccine reduced vaccine unavailability by 43% and overstock by 54%, and sharing adult vaccine reduced vaccine unavailability by 9% and overstock by 15%. Redistributing vaccines obtained greater gains for both pediatrics and adults (by 75%). When the vaccine supply is in short, only sharing pediatric vaccine yielded a 48% reduction of unused inventory, while other polices do not improve performances.CONCLUSIONS: When implementing vaccination activities for seasonal influenza intervention, it is important to consider mismatches of demand and vaccine inventory. Our model confirmed that sharing and redistributing vaccines can substantially increase availability and reduce unused vaccines. labels: #Adult#Child#Female#Humans#Influenza Vaccines#Influenza, Human#Male#Mass Vaccination#Orthomyxoviridae#Risk Sharing, Financial#Taiwan'
b'RESULTS: First, in patients receiving two different combinations of DAAs, we found that DAAs induced not only rapid viral clearance, but also a re-setting of antiviral immune responses in the peripheral blood. Specifically, we see a rapid decline in the expression of genes associated with chronic IFN stimulation (IFIT3, USP18, IFIT1) as well as a rapid decline in genes associated with inflammation (IL1\xce\xb2, CXCL10, CXCL11) in the peripheral blood that precedes the complete removal of virus from the blood. Interestingly, this rapid reversal of innate immune activation was not seen in patients who successfully clear chronic HCV infection using IFN-based therapy. Next, using a novel humanized mouse model (Fah-/-RAG2-/-IL2rgnull-FRG), we assessed the changes that occur in the hepatic tissue following DAA treatment. DAA-mediated rapid HCV clearance resulted in blunting of the expression of proinflammatory responses while functionally restoring the RIG-I/MAVS axis in the liver of humanized mice.CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our data demonstrate that the rapid viral clearance following treatment with DAAs results in the rebalancing of innate antiviral response in both the peripheral blood and the liver as well as enhanced antiviral signaling within previously infected hepatocytes. labels: #Aged#Animals#Antiviral Agents#Benzazepines#Disease Models, Animal#Female#Gene Expression Regulation#Hepacivirus#Hepatitis C, Chronic#Hepatocytes#Humans#Imidazoles#Immunity, Innate#Indoles#Inflammation#Isoquinolines#Liver#Male#Mice#Middle Aged#Sulfonamides'
b'Understanding habitat selection of gray foxes (Urocyon cinereoargenteus) is essential to evaluate their potential response to changes in land use and predator communities. Few studies have evaluated temporal habitat selection or explicitly identified habitats used by gray foxes for diurnal refugia. We used GPS collars to obtain location data for 34 gray foxes (20 males and 14 females) from February 2014 to December 2015 to evaluate temporal (seasonal and diel) habitat selection and selection of diurnal refugia in southwestern Georgia, USA. We analyzed habitat selection at 2 levels, selection of a core area within the home range and selection of locations within the home range. Habitat selection was non-random (P<0.001) but consistent among seasons, between day and night, and between sexes (P>0.05). Hardwoods, human use (i.e., areas associated with regular human activity such as buildings, lawns, parking areas, etc.), and roads were selected (P<0.05), whereas pine dominated stands were used randomly (P>0.05). Selection of habitats for diurnal refugia did not vary seasonally or by sex (P>0.05), with foxes selecting (P<0.05) areas near hardwood forests, roads, agriculture, human use, pastures/food plots, and shrub scrub habitats. Gray foxes were observed on the ground while resting, and we found no evidence of gray foxes diurnally resting in trees. Our results suggest that on our study area, gray foxes are an edge species that prefer forests with a hardwood component in areas near human use and roads. labels: #Agriculture#Animals#Circadian Rhythm#Ecosystem#Female#Forests#Foxes#Geographic Information Systems#Georgia#Human Activities#Humans#Male#Predatory Behavior#Refugium#Transportation'
b'OBJECTIVE: Previous studies demonstrated that circulating microRNA-375 (miR-375) is a suitable plasma biomarker for real-time detection of beta cell death. The present study evaluated the use of this biomarker to assess the beta cytoprotective effect of phenylpropenoic acid glucoside (PPAG), which was previously demonstrated to protect beta cells against various types of injury, and of exendin-4, which is an established antidiabetic drug.METHODS: PPAG or exendin-4 were administered in mice treated with streptozotocin (STZ) to acutely induce beta cell death. Beta cell mass and apoptotic death were measured in pancreatic tissue sections. Circulating miR-375 was measured in blood plasma by RT-qPCR. The release of miR-375 was also measured in vitro by MIN-6 beta cells.RESULTS: Administration of STZ resulted in measurable circulating levels of miR-375, a decrease in beta cell mass and increase in frequency of apoptotic beta cells. In vitro, there was a good correlation between miR-375 release and the extent of beta cell death. Treatment of mice with PPAG or exendin-4 significantly attenuated STZ-induced loss of beta cell mass and beta cell apoptosis, and normalized the blood level of miR-375.CONCLUSIONS: These findings show the potential use of serological miR-375 measurements to evaluate the beta cytoprotective effect of (potential) antidiabetic drugs in vivo. labels: #Animals#Apoptosis#Biomarkers#Blood Glucose#Cell Line#Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental#Glucosides#Hypoglycemic Agents#Insulin-Secreting Cells#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#MicroRNAs#Pancreas#Peptides#Phenylpropionates#Protective Agents#Streptozocin#Venoms'
b'BACKGROUND: Alcohol use is a global health issue and may influence activity performance in a variety of domains, including the occupational and domestic spheres. The aim of the study was to examine the influence of annual drinking frequency and binge drinking (\xe2\x89\xa56 units at one occasion) on activity impairments both at work (sickness presenteeism) and outside the workplace.METHODS: Employees (n = 3278), recruited from 14 Norwegian private and public companies, responded to a questionnaire containing questions from the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) and the Workplace Productivity and Activity Impairment questionnaire (WPAI).RESULTS: Multiple hierarchical regression analyses revealed that binge drinking was associated with both sickness presenteeism and impaired daily activities, even after controlling for gender, age, educational level, living status and employment sector. Annual drinking frequency was associated with impaired daily activities, but not sickness presenteeism.CONCLUSIONS: Binge drinking seems to have a stronger influence on activity performance both at work and outside the workplace than drinking frequency. Interventions targeting alcohol consumption should benefit from focusing on binge drinking behavior. labels: #Absenteeism#Adult#Alcohol Drinking#Cross-Sectional Studies#Efficiency#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Norway#Presenteeism#Surveys and Questionnaires#Workplace'
b'Glioblastoma is highly aggressive. Early dispersal of the primary tumor renders localized therapy ineffective. Recurrence always occurs and leads to patient death. Prior studies have shown that dispersal of Glioblastoma can be significantly reduced by Dexamethasone (Dex), a drug currently used to control brain tumor related edema. However, due to high doses and significant side effects, treatment is tapered and discontinued as soon as edema has resolved. Prior analyses of the dispersal inhibitory effects of Dex were performed on tissue culture plastic, or polystyrene filters seeded with normal human astrocytes, conditions which inherently differ from the parenchymal architecture of neuronal tissue. The aim of this study was to utilize an ex-vivo model to examine Dex-mediated inhibition of tumor cell migration from low-passage, human Glioblastoma neurospheres on multiple substrates including mouse retina, and slices of mouse, pig, and human brain. We also determined the lowest possible Dex dose that can inhibit dispersal. Analysis by Two-Factor ANOVA shows that for GBM-2 and GBM-3, Dex treatment significantly reduces dispersal on all tissue types. However, the magnitude of the effect appears to be tissue-type specific. Moreover, there does not appear to be a difference in Dex-mediated inhibition of dispersal between mouse retina, mouse brain and human brain. To estimate the lowest possible dose at which Dex can inhibit dispersal, LogEC50 values were compared by Extra Sum-of-Squares F-test. We show that it is possible to achieve 50% reduction in dispersal with Dex doses ranging from 3.8 x10-8M to 8.0x10-9M for GBM-2, and 4.3x10-8M to 1.8x10-9M for GBM-3, on mouse retina and brain slices, respectively. These doses are 3-30-fold lower than those used to control edema. This study extends our previous in vitro data and identifies the mouse retina as a potential substrate for in vivo studies of GBM dispersal. labels: #Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal#Brain#Cell Movement#Dexamethasone#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Feeder Cells#Humans#Mice#Microtomy#Neuroglia#Retina#Spheroids, Cellular#Swine#Tumor Cells, Cultured'
b'Minced muscle grafts (MG) promote de novo muscle fiber regeneration and neuromuscular strength recovery in small and large animal models of volumetric muscle loss. The most noteworthy limitation of this approach is its reliance on a finite supply of donor tissue. To address this shortcoming, this study sought to evaluate micronized acellular urinary bladder matrix (UBM) as a scaffolding to promote in vivo expansion of this MG therapy in a rat model. Rats received volumetric muscle loss injuries to the tibialis anterior muscle of their left hind limb which were either left untreated or repaired with minced muscle graft at dosages of 50% and 100% of the defect mass, urinary bladder matrix in isolation, or a with an expansion product consisting of a combination of the two putative therapies in which the minced graft is delivered at a dosage of 50% of the defect mass. Rats survived to 2 and 8 weeks post injury before functional (in vivo neuromuscular strength), histological, morphological, and biochemical analyses were performed. Rats treated with the expansion product exhibited improved neuromuscular function relative to untreated VML after an 8 week time period following injury. This improvement in functional capacity, however, was accompanied with a concomitant reduction in graft mediated regeneration, as evidenced cell lineage tracing enable by a transgenic GFP expressing donor, and a mixed histological outcome indicating coincident fibrous matrix deposition with interspersed islands of nascent muscle fibers. Furthermore, quantitative immunofluorescence and transcriptional analysis following the 2 week time point suggests an exacerbated immune response to the UBM as a possible nidus for the observed suboptimal regenerative outcome. Moving forward, efforts related to the development of a MG expansion product should carefully consider the effects of the host immune response to candidate biomaterials in order to avoid undesirable dysregulation of pro-regenerative cross talk between the immune system and myogenic processes. labels: #Animals#Extracellular Matrix#Male#Muscle, Skeletal#Rats#Rats, Inbred Lew#Rats, Transgenic#Recovery of Function#Regeneration#Tissue Engineering#Tissue Scaffolds#Transplantation, Homologous#Urinary Bladder'
b'We argue that the series of traits characterizing Borderline Personality Disorder samples do not weigh equally. In this regard, we believe that network approaches employed recently in Personality and Psychopathology research to provide information about the differential relationships among symptoms would be useful to test our claim. To our knowledge, this approach has never been applied to personality disorders. We applied network analysis to the nine Borderline Personality Disorder traits to explore their relationships in two samples drawn from university students and clinical populations (N = 1317 and N = 96, respectively). We used the Fused Graphical Lasso, a technique that allows estimating networks from different populations separately while considering their similarities and differences. Moreover, we examined centrality indices to determine the relative importance of each symptom in each network. The general structure of the two networks was very similar in the two samples, although some differences were detected. Results indicate the centrality of mainly affective instability, identity, and effort to avoid abandonment aspects in Borderline Personality Disorder. Results are consistent with the new DSM Alternative Model for Personality Disorders. We discuss them in terms of implications for therapy. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Affective Symptoms#Aged#Avoidance Learning#Borderline Personality Disorder#Case-Control Studies#Dependency (Psychology)#Depression#Female#Humans#Identity Crisis#Male#Middle Aged#Narcissism#Neural Networks (Computer)#Obsessive Behavior#Passive-Aggressive Personality Disorder#Psychiatric Status Rating Scales'
b'Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) primarily resides in the lung but can also persist in extrapulmonary sites. Macrophages are considered the prime cellular habitat in all tissues. Here we demonstrate that Mtb resides inside adipocytes of fat tissue where it expresses stress-related genes. Moreover, perigonadal fat of Mtb-infected mice disseminated the infection when transferred to uninfected animals. Adipose tissue harbors leukocytes in addition to adipocytes and other cell types and we observed that Mtb infection induces changes in adipose tissue biology depending on stage of infection. Mice infected via aerosol showed infiltration of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) or arginase 1 (Arg1)-negative F4/80+ cells, despite recruitment of CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Gene expression analysis of adipose tissue of aerosol Mtb-infected mice provided evidence for upregulated expression of genes associated with T cells and NK cells at 28 days post-infection. Strikingly, IFN-\xce\xb3-producing NK cells and Mtb-specific CD8+ T cells were identified in perigonadal fat, specifically CD8+CD44-CD69+ and CD8+CD44-CD103+ subpopulations. Gene expression analysis of these cells revealed that they expressed IFN-\xce\xb3 and the lectin-like receptor Klrg1 and down-regulated CD27 and CD62L, consistent with an effector phenotype of Mtb-specific CD8+ T cells. Sorted NK cells expressed higher abundance of Klrg1 upon infection, as well. Our results reveal the ability of Mtb to persist in adipose tissue in a stressed state, and that NK cells and Mtb-specific CD8+ T cells infiltrate infected adipose tissue where they produce IFN-\xce\xb3 and assume an effector phenotype. We conclude that adipose tissue is a potential niche for Mtb and that due to infection CD8+ T cells and NK cells are attracted to this tissue. labels: #Adipocytes#Adipose Tissue#Animals#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Humans#Killer Cells, Natural#Mice#Mycobacterium tuberculosis#Tuberculosis#Virus Latency'
b'The fungal pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), which causes the disease chytridiomycosis, has been linked to catastrophic amphibian declines throughout the world. Amphibians differ in their vulnerability to chytridiomycosis; some species experience epizootics followed by collapse while others exhibit stable host/pathogen dynamics where most amphibian hosts survive in the presence of Bd (e.g., in the enzootic state). Little is known about the factors that drive the transition between the two disease states within a community, or whether populations of species that survived the initial epizootic are stable, yet this information is essential for conservation and theory. Our study focuses on a diverse Peruvian amphibian community that experienced a Bd-caused collapse. We explore host/Bd dynamics of eight surviving species a decade after the mass extinction by using population level disease metrics and Bd-susceptibility trials. We found that three of the eight species continue to be susceptible to Bd, and that their populations are declining. Only one species is growing in numbers and it was non-susceptible in our trials. Our study suggests that some species remain vulnerable to Bd and exhibit ongoing population declines in enzootic systems where Bd-host dynamics are assumed to be stable. labels: #Animals#Anura#Chytridiomycota#Disease Resistance#Disease Susceptibility#Female#Host Specificity#Male#Mycoses#Peru#Population Dynamics'
b'Restriction factors are important components of intrinsic cellular defense mechanisms against viral pathogens. TRIM5\xce\xb1 is a restriction factor that intercepts the incoming capsid cores of retroviruses such as HIV and provides an effective species-specific barrier to retroviral infection. The TRIM5\xce\xb1 SPRY domain directly binds the capsid with only very weak, millimolar-level affinity, and productive capsid recognition therefore requires both TRIM5\xce\xb1 dimerization and assembly of the dimers into a multivalent hexagonal lattice to promote avid binding. Here, we explore the important unresolved question of whether the SPRY domains are flexibly linked to the TRIM lattice or more precisely positioned to maximize avidity. Biochemical and biophysical experiments indicate that the linker segment connecting the SPRY domain to the coiled-coil domain adopts an \xce\xb1-helical fold, and that this helical portion mediates interactions between the two domains. Targeted mutations were generated to disrupt the putative packing interface without affecting dimerization or higher-order assembly, and we identified mutant proteins that were nevertheless deficient in capsid binding in vitro and restriction activity in cells. Our studies therefore support a model wherein substantial avidity gains during assembly-mediated capsid recognition by TRIM5\xce\xb1 come in part from tailored spacing of tethered recognition domains. labels: #Animals#Capsid#Carrier Proteins#Humans#Models, Molecular#Protein Structure, Secondary#Retroviridae'
b'METHODS: We conducted a retrospective national mortuary based study to identify all adult female homicides (18 years and older) and all child homicides (boys and girls<18 years) in 2009 in a randomly selected, proportionate sample of mortuaries. Victim, perpetrator and crime data were collected in three processes: from the mortuary register, the autopsy report and from police with the identification of sexual homicides validated across the data collection processes.FINDINGS: Among the 2670 (95% CI: 2311-2979) adult women killed in 2009, 494 (95% CI: 406-574) were identified as sexual homicides which was 19.8% (95% CI: 17.6-22.0) of all adult female homicides and among 1277 (95% CI: 1091-1462) children killed in SA, sexual homicides were found in 104 (95% CI: 77-132) of the child homicides which was 8.7% (95% CI: 10.9-11.2%) of these murders. Strangulation was the most common cause of death for both children and adult females. A distinct age and sex pattern was found among children with only 1% boy child death identified as a sexual homicide and 92% of all the child sexual homicides were among girls. Strangulation was the most common manner of death among children (35.5%) and perpetrators were seldom strangers. However, no difference in the proportion of convictions between the sexual homicides and non-sexual homicides were found for both adult females and children.CONCLUSION: Rape homicide is not a rare event in South Africa, with one in five female homicides and nearly one in ten child homicides identified with an associated sexual crime. These high prevalences are amongst the highest levels reported in the literature with our study among the few reporting on the epidemiology of child sexual homicide. Reducing mortality is an important policy goal for South Africa and for the rest of the world and the prevention of female and child homicide is an important part of attaining this goal. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Age Distribution#Asphyxia#Autopsy#Child#Child Abuse, Sexual#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Homicide#Humans#Male#Morgue#Prevalence#Rape#Retrospective Studies#Sex Distribution#South Africa'
b'SHARPIN (Shank-Associated RH Domain-Interacting Protein) is a component of the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC), which enhances TNF-induced NF-\xce\xbaB activity. SHARPIN-deficient (Sharpincpdm/cpdm) mice display multi-organ inflammation and chronic proliferative dermatitis (cpdm) due to TNF-induced keratinocyte apoptosis. In cells, SHARPIN also inhibits integrins independently of LUBAC, but it has remained enigmatic whether elevated integrin activity levels in the dermis of Sharpincpdm/cpdm mice is due to increased integrin activity or is secondary to inflammation. In addition, the functional contribution of increased integrin activation to the Sharpincpdm/cpdm phenotype has not been investigated. Here, we find increased integrin activity in keratinocytes from Tnfr1-/- Sharpincpdm/cpdm double knockout mice, which do not display chronic inflammation or proliferative dermatitis, thus suggesting that SHARPIN indeed acts as an integrin inhibitor in vivo. In addition, we present evidence for a functional contribution of integrin activity to the Sharpincpdm/cpdm skin phenotype. Treatment with an integrin beta 1 function blocking antibody reduced epidermal hyperproliferation and epidermal thickness in Sharpincpdm/cpdm mice. Our data indicate that, while TNF-induced cell death triggers the chronic inflammation and proliferative dermatitis, absence of SHARPIN-dependent integrin inhibition exacerbates the epidermal hyperproliferation in Sharpincpdm/cpdm mice. labels: #Animals#Antibodies, Neutralizing#Apoptosis#Carrier Proteins#Cell Proliferation#Chronic Disease#Dermatitis#Epidermis#Female#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression Regulation#Inflammation#Integrin beta1#Keratinocytes#Male#Mice#Mice, Knockout#NF-kappa B#Phenotype#Receptors, Tumor Necrosis Factor, Type I#Signal Transduction#Ubiquitin'
b"We evaluated the relationship between altered foot function and knee osteoarthritis through a specific comparison of toe grip strength in older women with and without knee osteoarthritis. Participants were 120 women with knee osteoarthritis (OA group) and 108 healthy community-dwelling women with no history of knee pain and lower limb surgery (control group). The following factors and outcome variables were included in our analysis: measured toe grip strength, isometric knee extension strength, the timed Up-and-Go, and the WOMAC scale. Between-group differences were compared using unpaired t-tests for descriptive characteristics and outcome measures. Pearson's correlation coefficients between toe grip strength and age, body mass index, and other outcome measures were calculated. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate the independence of toe grip strength and knee osteoarthritis. Compared to the control group, participants in the OA group were older, heavier, and had a higher body mass index. Toe grip strength and isometric knee extension strength were lower and the timed Up-and-Go longer for the OA group than the control group. Toe grip strength was correlated with age negatively and isometric knee extension strength positively in the OA group and to age and the timed Up-and-Go negatively, and isometric knee extension strength positively in the control group. Multiple logistic regression analysis revealed that body mass index, isometric knee extensor strength, and toe grip strength were independently associated with knee osteoarthritis. Our findings indicate a probable association between altered forefoot function and the incidence or progression of knee osteoarthritis. Increasing toe grip strength might provide a practical intervention for patients with knee osteoarthritis. labels: #Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Asian Continental Ancestry Group#Body Mass Index#Case-Control Studies#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Independent Living#Isometric Contraction#Knee Joint#Logistic Models#Muscle Strength#Osteoarthritis, Knee#Pain#Severity of Illness Index#Toes"
b'Wilms tumour (WT) is an embryonal tumour that recapitulates kidney development. The normal kidney is formed from two distinct embryological origins: the metanephric mesenchyme (MM) and the ureteric bud (UB). It is generally accepted that WT arises from precursor cells in the MM; however whether UB-equivalent structures participate in tumorigenesis is uncertain. To address the question of the involvement of UB, we assessed 55 Wilms tumours for the molecular features of MM and UB using gene expression profiling, immunohistochemsitry and immunofluorescence. Expression profiling primarily based on the Genitourinary Molecular Anatomy Project data identified molecular signatures of the UB and collecting duct as well as those of the proximal and distal tubules in the triphasic histology group. We performed immunolabeling for fetal kidneys and WTs. We focused on a central epithelial blastema pattern which is the characteristic of triphasic histology characterized by UB-like epithelial structures surrounded by MM and MM-derived epithelial structures, evoking the induction/aggregation phase of the developing kidney. The UB-like epithelial structures and surrounding MM and epithelial structures resembling early glomerular epithelium, proximal and distal tubules showed similar expression patterns to those of the developing kidney. These observations indicate WTs can arise from a precursor cell capable of generating the entire kidney, such as the cells of the intermediate mesoderm from which both the MM and UB are derived. Moreover, this provides an explanation for the variable histological features of mesenchymal to epithelial differentiation seen in WT. labels: #Carcinogenesis#Cell Differentiation#Cell Membrane#Fetus#Gene Expression Profiling#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Humans#Kidney#Mesoderm#Organ Culture Techniques#Organogenesis#Ureter#Wilms Tumor'
b"This paper aimed to investigate the role of parental education in child disability in China. We used nationally representative data from China's National Sample Survey on Disability, iterated twice, in 1987 and 2006, with data of 764,718 children aged 0-14 years. Logit models were used for statistical analysis. Results showed that the prevalence of child disability was significantly associated with each parent's education. Maternal education was more important than paternal education in child disability in both surveys. The analysis of marginal effect indicated a one-year increase in maternal and paternal schooling led to an average decrease of 0.121% and 0.091% in the probability of child disability in 1987, and 19 years later, these figures had dwindled to 0.091% and 0.072%, respectively. labels: #Adolescent#Child#Child, Preschool#China#Disabled Children#Female#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Infant#Infant, Newborn#Logistic Models#Male#Parents#Patient Education as Topic#Risk Factors#Socioeconomic Factors#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'BACKGROUND: The Chiranjeevi Yojana (CY) is a Public-Private-Partnership between the state and private obstetricians in Gujarat, India, since 2007. The state pays for institutional births of the most vulnerable households (below-poverty-line and tribal) in private hospitals. An innovative remuneration package has been designed to disincentivise unnecessary cesareans. This study examines characteristics of private facilities which participated in the program.METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional survey of all facilities which had conducted any births between June 2012 and April 2013 in three districts. We identified 111 private and 47 public facilities. Ninety of the 111 private facilities did caesarean sections in the last three months and were eligible to participate in the CY program. Of these, 40 (44%) participated in the CY program. We conducted descriptive and bivariate analyses followed by a Poisson regression model to estimate prevalence ratios of facility characteristics that predicted participation.RESULTS: We found that facilities participating in the CY program had a significantly higher likelihood of being general facilities (PR 1.9, 95% CI 1.3-2.9), or conducting lower proportion of cesarean births (PR 2.1, 95% CI 1.2-3.5) or having obstetricians new in private practice (PR 1.9, 95% CI 1.2-3.1) or being less expensive (PR 1.8, 95% CI 1.1-3.0). But none of these factors retained significance in a multi variable model.CONCLUSION: Private obstetricians who participate in the CY program tend to be new to private practice, provide general services, conduct fewer caesareans and are also less expensive. This is advantageous to the PPP and widens the target beneficiary groups that can be serviced by the PPP. The state should design remuneration packages with the aim of attracting relatively new obstetricians to set up practices in more remote areas. It is possible that the CY remuneration package design is effective in keeping caesarean rates in check, and needs to be studied further. labels: #Adult#Analysis of Variance#Cesarean Section#Cross-Sectional Studies#Delivery, Obstetric#Female#Health Facilities#Health Services Accessibility#Humans#India#Maternal Health Services#Poverty#Pregnancy#Public-Private Sector Partnerships#Universal Coverage'
b'Changes in dermoscopic patterns of naevi may be associated with melanoma; however, there is no consensus on which dermoscopic classification system is optimal. To determine whether different classification systems give comparable results and can be combined for analysis, we applied two systems to a case-control study of melanoma with 1037 participants: 573 classified using a "1/3 major feature" system, 464 classified based on rules of appearance, and 263 classified with both criteria. There was strong correlation for non-specific (Spearman R = 0.96) and reticular (Spearman R = 0.82) naevi, with a slight bias for globular naevi with the rules of appearance system. Inter-observer reliability was high for the rules of appearance system, particularly for reticular naevi (Pearson>0.97). We show that different classification systems for naevi can be combined for data analysis, and describe a method for determining what adjustments may need to be applied to combine data sets. labels: #Adult#Analysis of Variance#Case-Control Studies#Dermoscopy#Female#Humans#Male#Melanoma#Middle Aged#Nevus, Pigmented#Observer Variation#Reproducibility of Results#Skin Neoplasms#Terminology as Topic'
b'Extended spectrum \xce\xb2-lactamase producing Escherichia coli (ESBL-EC) are excreted via effluents and sewage into the environment where they can re-contaminate humans and animals. The aim of this observational study was to detect and quantify ESBL-EC in recreational water and wastewater, and perform a genetic and phenotypic comparative analysis of the environmental strains with geographically associated human urinary ESBL-EC. Recreational fresh- and saltwater samples from four different beaches and wastewater samples from a nearby sewage plant were filtered and cultured on differential and ESBL-selective media. After antimicrobial susceptibility testing and multi-locus variable number of tandem repeats assay (MLVA), selected ESBL-EC strains from recreational water were characterized by whole genome sequencing (WGS) and compared to wastewater and human urine isolates from people living in the same area. We detected ESBL-EC in recreational water samples on 8/20 occasions (40%), representing all sites. The ratio of ESBL-EC to total number of E. coli colony forming units varied from 0 to 3.8%. ESBL-EC were present in all wastewater samples in ratios of 0.56-0.75%. ST131 was most prevalent in urine and wastewater samples, while ST10 dominated in water samples. Eight STs and identical ESBL-EC MLVA-types were detected in all compartments. Clinical ESBL-EC isolates were more likely to be multidrug-resistant (p<0.001). This study confirms that ESBL-EC, including those that are capable of causing human infection, are present in recreational waters where there is a potential for human exposure and subsequent gut colonisation and infection in bathers. Multidrug-resistant E. coli strains are present in urban aquatic environments even in countries where antibiotic consumption in both humans and animals is highly restricted. labels: #Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bathing Beaches#Drug Resistance, Multiple, Bacterial#Epidemiological Monitoring#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Infections#Fresh Water#Gene Expression#Genome, Bacterial#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Multilocus Sequence Typing#Norway#Recreation#Urinary Tract Infections#Waste Water#Water Microbiology#beta-Lactamases'
b'The degree to which terrestrial vertebrate populations are depleted in tropical forests occupied by human communities has been the subject of an intense polarising debate that has important conservation implications. Conservation ecologists and practitioners are divided over the extent to which community-based subsistence offtake is compatible with ecologically functional populations of tropical forest game species. To quantify depletion envelopes of forest vertebrates around human communities, we deployed a total of 383 camera trap stations and 78 quantitative interviews to survey the peri-community areas controlled by 60 semi-subsistence communities over a combined area of over 3.2 million hectares in the M\xc3\xa9dio Juru\xc3\xa1 and Uatum\xc3\xa3 regions of Central-Western Brazilian Amazonia. Our results largely conform with prior evidence that hunting large-bodied vertebrates reduces wildlife populations near settlements, such that they are only found at a distance to settlements where they are hunted less frequently. Camera trap data suggest that a select few harvest-sensitive species, including lowland tapir, are either repelled or depleted by human communities. Nocturnal and cathemeral species were detected relatively more frequently in disturbed areas close to communities, but individual species did not necessarily shift their activity patterns. Group biomass of all species was depressed in the wider neighbourhood of urban areas rather than communities. Interview data suggest that species traits, especially group size and body mass, mediate these relationships. Large-bodied, large-group-living species are detected farther from communities as reported by experienced informants. Long-established communities in our study regions have not "emptied" the surrounding forest. Low human population density and low hunting offtake due to abundant sources of alternative aquatic protein, suggest that these communities represent a best-case scenario for sustainable hunting of wildlife for food, thereby providing a conservative assessment of game depletion. Given this \'best-case\' camera trap and interview-based evidence for hunting depletion, regions with higher human population densities, external trade in wildlife and limited access to alternative protein will likely exhibit more severe depletion. labels: #Animal Distribution#Animals#Animals, Wild#Biomass#Body Weight#Brazil#Conservation of Natural Resources#Diet, Paleolithic#Female#Forests#Humans#Male#Population Density#Residence Characteristics#Rural Population#Vertebrates'
b'The PTPN22R620W single nucleotide polymorphism increases the risk of developing multiple autoimmune diseases including type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. PTPN22 is highly expressed in antigen presenting cells (APCs) where the expression of the murine disease associated variant orthologue (Ptpn22R619W) is reported to dysregulate pattern recognition receptor signalling in dendritic cells (DCs) and promote T-cell proliferation. Because T-cell activation is dependent on DC antigen uptake, degradation and presentation, we analysed the efficiency of these functions in splenic and GM-CSF bone marrow derived DC from wild type (WT), Ptpn22-/- or Ptpn22R619W mutant mice. Results indicated no differential ability of DCs to uptake antigen via macropinocytosis or receptor-mediated endocytosis. Antigen degradation and presentation was also equal as was WT T-cell conjugate formation and subsequent T-cell proliferation. Despite the likely presence of multiple phosphatase-regulated pathways in the antigen uptake, processing and presentation pathways that we investigated, we observed that Ptpn22 and the R619W autoimmune associated variant were dispensable. These important findings indicate that under non-inflammatory conditions there is no requirement for Ptpn22 in DC dependent antigen uptake and T-cell activation. Our findings reveal that perturbations in antigen uptake and processing, a fundamental pathway determining adaptive immune responses, are unlikely to provide a mechanism for the risk associated with the Ptpn22 autoimmune associated polymorphism. labels: #Animals#Antigen Presentation#Antigens, Bacterial#Coculture Techniques#Dendritic Cells#Endocytosis#Fluorescent Dyes#Gene Expression#Immunological Synapses#Listeria monocytogenes#Lymphocyte Activation#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Mice, Knockout#Ovalbumin#Pinocytosis#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 22#Signal Transduction#Staining and Labeling#T-Lymphocytes'
b"The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services recently released a five star rating system as part of 'Dialysis Facility Compare' to help patients identify and choose high performing clinics in the US. Eight dialysis-related measures determine ratings. Little is known about the association between surrounding community sociodemographic characteristics and star ratings. Using data from the U.S. Census and over 6000 dialysis clinics across the country, we examined the association between dialysis clinic star ratings and characteristics of the local population: 1) proportion of population below the federal poverty level (FPL); 2) proportion of black individuals; and 3) proportion of Hispanic individuals, by correlation and regression analyses. Secondary analyses with Quality Incentive Program (QIP) scores and population characteristics were also performed. We observed a negligible correlation between star ratings and the proportion of local individuals below FPL; Spearman coefficient, R = -0.09 (p<0.0001), and a stronger correlation between star ratings and the proportion of black individuals; R = -0.21 (p<0.0001). Ordered logistic regression analyses yielded adjusted odds ratio of 0.91 (95% confidence interval [0.80-1.30], p = 0.12) and 0.55 ([0.48-0.63], p<0.0001) for high vs. low level of proportion below FPL and proportion of black individuals, respectively. In contrast, a near-zero correlation was observed between star ratings and the proportion of Hispanic individuals. Correlations varied substantially by country region, clinic profit status and clinic size. Analyses using clinic QIP scores provided similar results. Sociodemographic characteristics of the surrounding community, factors typically outside of providers' direct control, have varying levels of association with clinic dialysis star ratings. labels: #African Americans#Ambulatory Care Facilities#Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (U.S.)#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Logistic Models#Medicaid#Medicare#Odds Ratio#Poverty Areas#Quality Indicators, Health Care#Renal Dialysis#United States"
b'Dogs (Canis familiaris) are often free-roaming in sub-Saharan African countries. Rabies virus circulates in many of these populations and presents a public health issue. Mass vaccination of dog populations is the recommended method to decrease the number of dog and human rabies cases. We describe and compare four populations of dogs and their vaccination coverage in four different villages (Hluvukani, Athol, Utah and Dixie) in Bushbuckridge Municipality, Mpumalanga province, South Africa. Cross-sectional surveys were conducted in the villages of Athol, Utah and Dixie, while data from a Health and Demographic Surveillance System were used to describe the dog population in Hluvukani village. All households of the villages were visited to obtain information on the number, sex, age and rabies vaccination status of dogs. From May to October 2013, 2969 households were visited in the four villages and 942 owned dogs were reported. The populations were all young and skewed towards males. No differences were observed in the sex and age distributions (puppies 0-3 months excluded) among the villages. Athol had a higher proportion of dog-owning households than Hluvukani and Utah. Vaccination coverages were all above the 20% - 40% threshold required for herd immunity to rabies (38% in Hluvukani, 51% in Athol, 65% in Dixie and 74% in Utah). For the preparation of vaccination campaigns, we recommend the use of the relatively stable dog:human ratio (between 1:12 and 1:16) to estimate the number of dogs per village in Bushbuckridge Municipality. labels: #Animals#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dog Diseases#Dogs#Family Characteristics#Female#Humans#Male#Ownership#Poverty#Rabies#Rabies Vaccines#Rural Population#South Africa#Surveys and Questionnaires#Vaccination'
b'Dry pelleted dog food in the South African market is available via supermarkets, pet stores (standard brands [SBs]) and veterinary channels (premium brands [PBs]). For the purpose of this study, the supermarket channel included the cheaper quality foods and PBs were sold via the veterinary channel (n = 20). These feeds were analysed for four main mycotoxins (aflatoxins [AF], fumonisin [FB], ochratoxin A [OTA] and zearalenone [ZEA]) using standard welldescribed extraction, characterisation and quantitation processes. Irrespective of the brand or marketing channel, all foods were contaminated with fungi (mainly Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus parasiticus) and mycotoxins (most prevalent being aflatoxins and fumonisins). This was observed in all 20 samples irrespective of the marketing channel or perceived quality. Also, many samples within each marketing channel failed the 10 ppb limit for aflatoxin set by regulations in South Africa. Although fumonisin was detected in all samples, a single sample failed the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) limit of 100 ppb. Both OTA and ZEA were found at low concentrations and were absent in some samples. This study suggested that higher priced dog food does not ensure superior quality or that it is free from contamination with fungi or mycotoxins. However, analysis of the more expensive PBs did reveal contamination concentrations lower than those of the SBs. labels: #Animal Feed#Animals#Commerce#Dogs#Food Microbiology#Fungi#Mycotoxins#South Africa'
b'Serology is primarily used in the diagnosis of bovine brucellosis. Bacterial culture and isolation is the gold standard in diagnosing brucellosis but, like serology, it does not offer complete (100%) diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been suggested to offer better specificity and sensitivity. In this study, we evaluated the performance of Brucella abortus species specific (BaSS) PCR directly from different samples in the diagnosis of bovine brucellosis in naturally infected cattle in KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa with known infectious status from culture. The BaSS PCR had a low diagnostic sensitivity (DSe) of 70%, but was able to identify vaccine strains using abomasal fluid from aborted foetuses and detect Brucella DNA from decomposing samples. The best sample for the BaSS PCR was abomasal fluid. labels: #Abomasum#Animals#Brucella abortus#Brucellosis, Bovine#Cattle#Female#Fetus#Milk#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Pregnancy#Sensitivity and Specificity#Vaccination'
b'BACKGROUND: Biologics magnetics nanoparticles, magnetosomes, attract attention because of their magnetic characteristics and potential applications. The aim of the present study was to develop and characterize novel magnetosomes, which were extracted from magnetotactic bacteria, purified to produce apyrogen magnetosome minerals, and then coated with Chitosan, Neridronate, or Polyethyleneimine. It yielded stable magnetosomes designated as M-Chi, M-Neri, and M-PEI, respectively. Nanoparticle biocompatibility was evaluated on mouse fibroblast cells (3T3), mouse glioblastoma cells (GL-261) and rat glioblastoma cells (RG-2). We also tested these nanoparticles for magnetic hyperthermia treatment of tumor in vitro on two tumor cell lines GL-261 and RG-2 under the application of an alternating magnetic field. Heating, efficacy and internalization properties were then evaluated.RESULTS: Nanoparticles coated with chitosan, polyethyleneimine and neridronate are apyrogen, biocompatible and stable in aqueous suspension. The presence of a thin coating in M-Chi and M-PEI favors an arrangement in chains of the magnetosomes, similar to that observed in magnetosomes directly extracted from magnetotactic bacteria, while the thick matrix embedding M-Neri leads to structures with an average thickness of 3.5\xc2\xa0\xc2\xb5m2per magnetosome mineral. In the presence of GL-261 cells and upon the application of an alternating magnetic field, M-PEI and M-Chi lead to the highest specific absorption rates of 120-125\xc2\xa0W/gFe. Furthermore, while M-Chi lead to rather low rates of cellular internalization, M-PEI strongly associate to cells, a property modulated by the application of an alternating magnetic field.CONCLUSIONS: Coating of purified magnetosome minerals can therefore be chosen to control the interactions of nanoparticles with cells, organization of the minerals, as well as heating and cytotoxicity properties, which are important parameters to be considered in the design of a magnetic hyperthermia treatment of tumor. labels: #3T3 Cells#Animals#Cell Line, Tumor#Chitosan#Coated Materials, Biocompatible#Diphosphonates#Glioma#Hyperthermia, Induced#Magnetic Fields#Magnetosomes#Magnetospirillum#Mice#Nanoparticles#Polyethyleneimine#Rats'
b'BACKGROUND: In the human retina, the contribution of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) to the regulation of the pupillary response remains poorly understood. The objective of the current study was to determine the response dynamics of the pupillary light reflex to short, successive pulses of light. In order to better assess the roles of ipRGCs and cones, we used pulses of blue and green light.METHODS: Each participant was exposed to 1-ms blue (466\xc2\xa0nm) and/or green (527\xc2\xa0nm) light pulses simultaneously or separately, with inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) of 0, 250, 500, 750, or 1000\xc2\xa0ms. Pupil diameter was measured using an infrared camera system.RESULTS: We found that human pupillary light responses during simultaneous irradiation or successive irradiation with ISIs \xe2\x89\xa4\xe2\x80\x89250\xc2\xa0ms were equivalent, though successive irradiation of blue- and green-pulsed light with ISIs \xe2\x89\xa5\xe2\x80\x89500\xc2\xa0ms induced markedly increased pupillary constriction.CONCLUSIONS: We propose that this result may be related to cell hyperpolarization that occurs in the retina just after the first light stimulus is turned off, with the threshold for this effect being between 250 and 500\xc2\xa0ms in the human retina. labels: #Adult#Anthropology, Physical#Female#Humans#Light#Photic Stimulation#Reflex, Pupillary#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Young Adult'
b"BACKGROUND: Melanoma took top position among the lethal cancers and, despite there have been some great attempts made to increase the natural life of patients with metastatic disease, long-lasting and complete remissions are few. Piceatannol, owns the similar function as resveratrol, has been defined as an anti-cancer agent playing important role in inhibition of proliferation, migration and metastasis in various cancer. Thus, we aim to investigate the anti-cancer effect and mechanisms of piceatannol in melanoma cells.METHODS: Melanoma cell lines WM266-4 and A2058 were treated either with or without piceatannol. Cell viability and cell apoptosis were assessed by using MTT and Annexin V/PI assay, respectively. Cells were transfected with specific miRNA using Lipfectamine 2000. miRNA bingding ability to 3'-UTR region within specific gene was assed by firefly luciferase analysis. Gene and protein expression was eveluated by qRT-PCR and western blot analysis, respectively.RESULTS: Our study showed that piceatannol inhibited WM266-4 and A2058 cells growth and induced apoptosis. Totally, 16 differentially expressed miRNAs were screened out including 8 up-regulated and 8 down-regulated miRNAs. Expression level of miR-181a is significantly higher in piceatannol-treated cells than normal control and is lower in melanoma cancer tissues than its adjacent normal tissues. Bcl-2 is a target gene of miR-181a. Moreover, silencing of miR-181a reverses the decrease of cell viability induced by piceatannol in WM266-4 and A2058 cells. Taken together, present study uncovered the ability of piceatannol to repress melanoma cell growth and clarified the contribution of miR-181a in the anticancer role of piceatannol.CONCLUSION: The present study proposes that piceatannol can be taken into account to be a hopeful anticancer agent for melanoma. labels: #Anticarcinogenic Agents#Apoptosis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Survival#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Melanoma#MicroRNAs#Stilbenes#Up-Regulation"
b'Foot ulceration is one of the most common and complex sequelae of diabetes mellitus, generally posing a therapeutic challenge due to poor healing responses and high rates of complications, including peripheral vascular disease, ischemia and infections. Calcitriol, the most active vitamin D metabolite, induces antimicrobial peptides production in keratinocytes from diabetic foot ulcers (DFU); however, little is known about its effects on angiogenic factors in this pathology. Herein we aimed at studying whether calcitriol induces angiogenic molecules in keratinocytes under normoxic and hypoxic conditions, and if these molecules are able to improve cell migration in vitro. Evaluation of DFU samples by immunohistochemistry showed increased VEGF and decreased angiogenin and HIF-1\xce\xb1 expression compared to controls, suggesting an altered pattern of angiogenic factors in DFU. Interestingly, incubation of keratinocytes with calcitriol significantly upregulated VEGFA, HIF-1\xce\xb1 and angiogenin gene expression, while the resulting cell culture media stimulated both endothelial cells and keratinocytes migration in an in vitro wound closure assay under a normoxic environment (p<0.05). Moreover, the culture media of calcitriol-treated keratinocytes stimulated cell migration in a similar extent as exogenous VEGF or EGF in endothelial and keratinocytes cells. These results suggest that the altered profile of angiogenic molecules in DFU might be improved by local or systemic treatment with calcitriol under normoxic conditions, which could probably be achieved with hyperbaric oxygen therapy. Given that calcitriol not only augments proangiogenic factors but also induces antimicrobial peptides expression, this hormone should be further investigated in clinical trials of DFU. labels: #Adult#Calcitriol#Cell Line#Diabetic Foot#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit#Keratinocytes#Male#Middle Aged#Neovascularization, Physiologic#Ribonuclease, Pancreatic#Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A#Vitamins#Wound Healing#Young Adult'
b'Increasing evidences have revealed the important role of circular RNAs (circRNAs) in cardiovascular system disease. Whereas, the expression profiles and in-depth regulation of circRNAs on vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is still undetermined. In present study, our research team performed circRNAs microarray analysis to present the circRNAs expression profiles in high glucose induced VSMCs in vitro. Results showed that total of 983 circRNAs were discovered to be differentially expressed, and of these, 458 were upregulated and 525 were downregulated. Moreover, 31 circRNAs were up-regulated and 22 circRNAs were down-regulated with 2 fold change (P\xc2\xa0<\xc2\xa00.05). One of an up-regulated circRNA, circWDR77, was identified. In vitro cell assay, circWDR77 silencing significantly inhibited the proliferation and migration. Bioinformatics methods discovered that miR-124 and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) were downstream targets of circWDR77. The RNA sequence complementary binding was validated by RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and/or luciferase reporter assay. Further function validation experiments revealed that circWDR77 regulated VSMCs proliferation and migration via targeting miR-124/FGF2. Taken together, present study firstly reveals the circRNAs expression profiles in high glucose induced VSMCs and identifies the role of circWDR77-miR-124-FGF2 regulatory pathway in VSMCs proliferation and migration, which might provide a new theoretical basis for diabetes mellitus correlated vasculopathy. labels: #Base Sequence#Cell Movement#Cell Proliferation#Cells, Cultured#Fibroblast Growth Factor 2#HEK293 Cells#Humans#MicroRNAs#Muscle, Smooth, Vascular#Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis#RNA#Transcription Factors#Transcriptome'
b'Objective\xc2\xa0To determine the safety of direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) use compared with warfarin use for the treatment of venous thromboembolism.Design\xc2\xa0Retrospective matched cohort study conducted between 1 January 2009 and 31 March 2016.Setting\xc2\xa0Community based, using healthcare data from six jurisdictions in Canada and the United States.Participants\xc2\xa059\xe2\x80\x89525 adults (12\xe2\x80\x89489 DOAC users; 47\xe2\x80\x89036 warfarin users) with a new diagnosis of venous thromboembolism and a prescription for a DOAC or warfarin within 30 days of diagnosis.Main outcome measures\xc2\xa0Outcomes included hospital admission or emergency department visit for major bleeding and all cause mortality within 90 days after starting treatment. Propensity score matching and shared frailty models were used to estimate adjusted hazard ratios of the outcomes comparing DOACs with warfarin. Analyses were conducted independently at each site, with meta-analytical methods used to estimate pooled hazard ratios across sites.Results\xc2\xa0Of the 59\xe2\x80\x89525 participants, 1967 (3.3%) had a major bleed and 1029 (1.7%) died over a mean follow-up of 85.2 days. The risk of major bleeding was similar for DOAC compared with warfarin use (pooled hazard ratio 0.92, 95% confidence interval 0.82 to 1.03), with the overall direction of the association favouring DOAC use. No difference was found in the risk of death (pooled hazard ratio 0.99, 0.84 to 1.16) for DOACs compared with warfarin use. There was no evidence of heterogeneity across centres, between patients with and without chronic kidney disease, across age groups, or between male and female patients.Conclusions\xc2\xa0In this analysis of adults with incident venous thromboembolism, treatment with DOACs, compared with warfarin, was not associated with an increased risk of major bleeding or all cause mortality in the first 90 days of treatment.Trial registration\xc2\xa0Clinical trials NCT02833987. labels: #Adult#Aged#Anticoagulants#Canada#Factor Xa Inhibitors#Female#Hemorrhage#Humans#Male#Medication Therapy Management#Middle Aged#Outcome and Process Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Risk Assessment#Rivaroxaban#United States#Venous Thromboembolism#Warfarin'
b'Healthy expansion of adipose tissue maintains metabolic homeostasis by storing excess chemical energy in increased fat mass. The STAT5-PPAR gamma pathway reportedly regulates adipocyte differentiation, lipid metabolism and adipogenesis. Ginsenoside Rg3 is one of the diverse groups of steroidal saponins, the major active components of ginseng, which have demonstrated pharmacological properties. In this study, we evaluated the therapeutic effects of ginsenoside Rg3 under pathological conditionsin vitroandin vivoWe examined the effects of ginsenoside Rg3 on glucose level, insulin sensitivity and lipogenesis in high-fat diet-fed C57BL/6 mice. Ginsenoside Rg3 was also applied to the pre-adipocyte cell line 3T3-L1 to assess the impact on lipogenesis. Ginsenoside Rg3 reduced epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) size and hepatic steatosis, and the amount of triglycerides (TGs) in both eWAT and liver. Similar to the murine model, Rg3-treated 3T3-L1 cells showed a reduction in lipid accumulation and amount of total TGs. Ginsenoside Rg3 regulates the expression of PPAR gamma though STAT5in vitroandin vivoAccording to our results, lipid metabolism-related genes were downregulated in the high-fat mice and 3T3-L1 cell line. Rg3 shows potential for the amelioration of obesity-induced pathology, acting though STAT5-PPAR gamma to facilitate the healthy functioning of adipose tissue. This is the first report of evidence that obesity-induced insulin resistance and lipotoxicity can be treated with ginsenoside Rg3, which acts though the STAT5-PPAR gamma pathwayin vivoandin vitro. labels: #3T3-L1 Cells#Adipocytes#Adipogenesis#Adipose Tissue, White#Animals#Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic#Blood Glucose#Blotting, Western#Diet, High-Fat#Down-Regulation#Epididymis#Fatty Liver#Gene Expression Regulation#Ginsenosides#Insulin Resistance#Lipogenesis#Male#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Obesity#PPAR gamma#RNA Interference#Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction#STAT5 Transcription Factor#Triglycerides'
b'BACKGROUND: Ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR) is classically ascribed to functional restriction of normal leaflets, but recent studies have suggested post-myocardial infarction (MI) mitral valve (MV) leaflet fibrosis and thickening, challenging valve normality. Progression of leaflet thickness post-MI has not been studied. We hypothesized that excessive MV remodeling post-MI contributes to MR. Our objectives are to characterize MV changes after MI and relate them to MR.METHODS AND RESULTS: Three groups of 40 patients with serial echocardiograms over a mean of 23.4 months were identified from an echocardiography database: patients first studied early (6\xc2\xb112 days) and late (12\xc2\xb17 years) after an inferior MI and normal controls. MV thickness was correlated with MR. We studied the mechanisms for MV changes in a sheep model (6 apical MI versus 6 controls) followed for 8 weeks, with MV cellular and histopathologic analyses. Early post-MI, leaflet thickness was found to be similar to controls (2.6\xc2\xb10.5 vs 2.5\xc2\xb10.4 mm;P=0.23) but significantly increased over time (2.5\xc2\xb10.4 to 2.9\xc2\xb10.4 mm;P<0.01). In this group, patients tolerating maximal doses of renin-angiotensin blocking agents had less thickening (25% of patients;P<0.01). The late-MI group had increased thickness (3.2\xc2\xb10.5 vs 2.5\xc2\xb10.4 mm;P<0.01) without progression. At follow-up, 48% of post-MI patients had more than mild MR. Increased thickness was independently associated with MR. Experimentally, 8 weeks post-MI, MVs were 2-fold thicker than controls, with increased collagen, profibrotic transforming growth factor-\xce\xb2, and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transformation, confirmed by flow cytometry.CONCLUSIONS: MV thickness increases post-MI and correlates with MR, suggesting an organic component to ischemic MR. MV fibrotic remodeling can indicate directions for future therapy. labels: #Adaptation, Physiological#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Animals#Biopsy#Collagen#Disease Models, Animal#Echocardiography, Doppler, Color#Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition#Female#Fibrosis#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mitral Valve#Mitral Valve Insufficiency#Myocardial Infarction#Retrospective Studies#Sheep, Domestic#Time Factors#Transforming Growth Factor beta'
b"A 3-month-old boy was admitted from his pediatrician's office for failure to thrive and vomiting. On admission, he weighed barely more than his birth weight and was cachectic with muscle wasting. His abdomen was grossly distended but soft and nontender. A trial of nasogastric feeds resulted in a worsening of his clinical status. He was transferred to the ICU, and diagnostic imaging was concerning for a distal bowel obstruction. Surgical pathology revealed a surprising diagnosis, which is described in detail in the following case. labels: #Appendicitis#Failure to Thrive#Humans#Infant#Intestinal Obstruction#Male#Vomiting"
b'A previously healthy 3-week-old boy presented with 5 hours of marked fussiness, abdominal distention, and poor feeding. He was afebrile and well perfused. His examination was remarkable for localized abdominal tenderness and distention. He was referred to the emergency department in which an abdominal radiograph revealed gaseous distention of the bowel with a paucity of gas in the pelvis. Complete blood cell count and urinalysis were unremarkable. His ongoing fussiness and abnormal physical examination prompted consultation with surgery and radiology. Our combined efforts ultimately established an unexpected diagnosis. labels: #Abdominal Pain#Acute Disease#Appendicitis#Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Male'
b'Neurog2 is a crucial regulator of neuronal fate specification and differentiationin vivoandin vitroHowever, it remains unclear how Neurog2 transactivates neuronal genes that are silenced by repressive chromatin. Here, we provide evidence that the histone H3 lysine 9 demethylase KDM3A facilitates theXenopusNeurog2 (formerly known as Xngnr1) chromatin accessibility during neuronal transcription. Loss-of-function analyses reveal that KDM3A is not required for the transition of naive ectoderm to neural progenitor cells but is essential for primary neuron formation. ChIP series followed by qPCR analyses reveal that Neurog2 promotes the removal of the repressive H3K9me2 marks and addition of active histone marks, including H3K27ac and H3K4me3, at the NeuroD1 and Tubb2b promoters; this activity depends on the presence of KDM3A because Neurog2, via its C-terminal domain, interacts with KDM3A. Interestingly, KDM3A is dispensable for the neuronal transcription initiated by Ascl1, a proneural factor related to neurogenin in the bHLH family. In summary, our findings uncover a crucial role for histone H3K9 demethylation during Neurog2-mediated neuronal transcription and help in the understanding of the different activities of Neurog2 and Ascl1 in initiating neuronal development. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Chromatin#Ectoderm#Female#Histones#Jumonji Domain-Containing Histone Demethylases#Lysine#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neurogenesis#Neurons#Polymerase Chain Reaction#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Transcriptional Activation#Xenopus Proteins#Xenopus laevis'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) in patients with cerebral small-vessel disease.METHODS: Thirty patients with cerebral small-vessel disease-related mild cognitive impairment were enrolled in this prospective, randomized controlled study for 1 year. Besides routine medical treatment, participants were randomized into the experimental group (n=14) undergoing 5 cycles consisting of ischemia followed by reperfusion for 5 minutes on both upper limbs twice daily for 1 year or the control group (n=16) who were treated with sham ischemia-reperfusion cycles. The primary outcome was the change of brain lesions, and secondary outcomes were changes of cognitive function, plasma biomarkers, and cerebral hemodynamic parameters both at baseline and at the end of 1-year follow-up.RESULTS: Compared with pretreatment, the post-treatment white matter hyperintensities volume in the RIC group was significantly reduced (9.10\xc2\xb17.42 versus 6.46\xc2\xb16.05 cm3;P=0.020), whereas no significant difference was observed in the sham-RIC group (8.99\xc2\xb16.81 versus 8.07\xc2\xb16.56 cm3;P=0.085). The reduction of white matter hyperintensities volume in the RIC group was more substantial than that in sham group (-2.632 versus -0.935 cm3;P=0.049). No significant difference was found in the change of the number of lacunes between 2 groups (0 versus 0;P=0.694). A significant treatment difference at 1 year on visuospatial and executive ability was found between the 2 groups (0.639 versus 0.191;P=0.048). RIC showed greater effects compared with sham-RIC on plasma triglyceride (-0.433 versus 0.236 mmol/L;P=0.005), total cholesterol (-0.975 versus 0.134 mmol/L;P<0.001), low-density lipoprotein (-0.645 versus -0.029 mmol/L;P=0.034), and homocysteine (-4.737 versus -1.679 \xc2\xb5mol/L;P=0.044). Changes of the pulsation indices of middle cerebral arteries from the baseline to 1 year were different between the 2 groups (right: -0.075 versus 0.043;P=0.030; left: -0.085 versus 0.043;P=0.010).CONCLUSIONS: RIC seems to be potentially effective in patients with cerebral small-vessel disease in slowing cognition decline and reducing white matter hyperintensities.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT01658306. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Cerebrovascular Disorders#Cognitive Dysfunction#Double-Blind Method#Female#Hemodynamics#Humans#Ischemic Preconditioning#Male#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Assessment of cognitive status poststroke is recommended by guidelines but follow-up can often not be done in person. The Telephone Interview of Cognitive Status (TICS) and the Telephone Montreal Cognitive Assessment (T-MoCA) are considered useful screening instruments. Yet, evidence to define optimal cut-offs for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) after stroke is limited.METHODS: We studied 105 patients enrolled in the prospective DEDEMAS study (Determinants of Dementia After Stroke; NCT01334749). Follow-up visits at 6, 12, 36, and 60 months included comprehensive neuropsychological testing and the Clinical Dementia Rating scale, both of which served as reference standards. The original TICS and T-MoCA were obtained in 2 separate telephone interviews each separated from the personal visits by 1 week (1 before and 1 after the visit) with the order of interviews (TICS versus T-MoCA) alternating between subjects. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic curves was determined.RESULTS: Ninety-six patients completed both the face-to-face visits and the 2 interviews. Area under the receiver-operating characteristic curves ranged between 0.76 and 0.83 for TICS and between 0.73 and 0.94 for T-MoCA depending on MCI definition. For multidomain MCI defined by multiple-tests definition derived from comprehensive neuropsychological testing optimal sensitivities and specificities were achieved at cut-offs<36 (TICS) and<18 (T-MoCA). Validity was lower using single-test definition, and cut-offs were higher compared with multiple-test definitions. Using Clinical Dementia Rating as the reference, optimal cut-offs for MCI were<36 (TICS) and approximately 19 (T-MoCA).CONCLUSIONS: Both the TICS and T-MoCA are valid screening tools poststroke, particularly for multidomain MCI using multiple-test definition. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cognition#Cognitive Dysfunction#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Middle Aged#Prospective Studies#Stroke'
b"The prevalence of autoimmune disorders in affluent countries has reached epidemic proportions. Over the past 50 years, a reverse trend between the frequency of infectious diseases and the incidence of autoimmune and allergic diseases led to the so-called 'hygiene hypothesis'. Given the epidemiological evidence and recent experimental data, we propose that this concept should also include metabolic pressure secondary to exposure to excessive daily caloric intake and overnutrition. We discuss how metabolic workload can modulate immunological tolerance and review the molecular mechanisms and the state of the art of the field. We also critically evaluate possibilities for restoring immunological homeostasis under conditions of metabolic pressure. labels: #Animals#Autoimmune Diseases#Homeostasis#Humans#Hygiene Hypothesis#Metabolic Networks and Pathways#Models, Immunological#Nutritional Physiological Phenomena#Self Tolerance"
b'The blood-brain barrier becomes "leaky" following lesions. Former studies revealed that following lesions the immunoreactivity of cerebrovascular laminin becomes detectable whereas that of \xce\xb2-dystroglycan disappears. These alterations may be indicators of glio-vascular decoupling that may result in the impairment of the blood-brain-barrier. This study investigates correlation between the post-lesion extravasation and the above-mentioned immunohistochemical alterations. Following cryogenic lesions, the survival periods lasted 5, 10, 30\xe2\x80\x89minutes, 1 or 12\xe2\x80\x89hours, or 1\xe2\x80\x89day. Some brains were fixed immediately post-lesion. Immunofluorescent reactions were performed in floating sections. The extravasation was detected with immunostaining for plasma fibronectin and rat immunoglobulins. When the survival period was 30\xe2\x80\x89minutes or longer, the area of extravasation corresponded to the area of altered laminin and \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivities. Following immediate fixation some laminin immunoreactivity was already detected. The extravasation seemed to precede this early appearance of laminin immunoreactivity. The \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivity disappeared later. When the extravasation spread into the corpus callosum, vascular laminin immunoreactivity appeared but the \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivity persisted. It seems that extravasation separates the glial and vascular basal laminae, which results in the appearance of laminin immunoreactivity. The disappearance of \xce\xb2-dystroglycan immunoreactivity is neither a condition nor an inevitable consequence of the 2 other phenomena. labels: #Animals#Blood-Brain Barrier#Cerebrovascular Circulation#Dystroglycans#Extravasation of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Materials#Female#Freezing#Laminin#Male#Parietal Lobe#Rats#Rats, Wistar'
b'Heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in GRN, the progranulin gene, which result in progranulin (PGRN) protein haploinsufficiency, are a major cause of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 proteinopathy (FTLD-TDP). PGRN is composed of seven and a half repeats of a highly conserved granulin motif that is cleaved to produce the granulin peptides A-G and paragranulin. To better understand the role of PGRN and granulin (Grn) peptides in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration, we evaluated PGRN/Grn in brains of patients with Alzheimer disease, FTLD-TDP type A with or without GRN mutations, and normal individuals, using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against Grn peptides A-G. In the neocortex, Grn peptide-specific immunostains were observed, for example, membranous Grn E immunopositivity in pyramidal neurons, and Grn C immunopositivity in ramified microglia. In the hippocampus, Grn immunopositivity in the CA1 and CA2 regions showed disease-specific changes in both neurons and microglia. Most interestingly, in FTLD-TDP type A with GRN mutations, there is a 60% decrease in the density of Grn-positive microglia in the hippocampal CA1, suggesting that haploinsufficiency of the GRN mutations also extends to PGRN expression in microglia. This study provides important insights into future studies of the pathogenesis and treatment of FTLD-TDP. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alzheimer Disease#Brain#Brain Chemistry#Female#Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration#Hippocampus#Humans#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Male#Microglia#Middle Aged#Neocortex#Neurons'
b'It has been proposed that susceptibility-weighted imaging is a sensitive magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technique for identifying white matter (WM) pathologic changes involving demyelination and iron accumulation. We identified the tree silhouette-like configuration with a paramagnetic phase shift in the frontal subcortical WM lesions of 4 patients with adult-onset leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids and pigmented glia who underwent 3T MRI. According to our postmortem 7T MRI and histologic correlation study to investigate the origin of the susceptibility-related phase contrast, changes in the subcortical WM architecture and central WM loss with the relative preservation of iron-rich U-fibers may contribute to the paramagnetic susceptibility. labels: #Axons#Electron Spin Resonance Spectroscopy#Female#Humans#Leukoencephalopathies#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male#Middle Aged#Neuroglia#Pigmentation#Spheroids, Cellular#White Matter'
b'Dorsal root ganglia, dorsal roots (DR), and dorsal root entry zones (DREZ) are vulnerable to frataxin deficiency in Friedreich ataxia (FA). A previously unrecognized abnormality is the intrusion of astroglial tissue into DR. Segments of formalin-fixed upper lumbar spinal cord of 13 homozygous and 2 compound heterozygous FA patients were sectioned longitudinally to represent DREZ and stained for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), S100, vimentin, the central nervous system (CNS)-specific myelin protein proteolipid protein, the peripheral nervous system (PNS) myelin proteins PMP-22 and P0, and the Schwann cell proteins laminin, alpha-dystroglycan, and periaxin. Normal DREZ showed short, sharply demarcated, dome-like extensions of CNS tissue into DR. The Schwann cell-related proteins formed tight caps around these domes. In FA, GFAP-, S100-, and vimentin-reactive CNS tissue extended across DREZ and into DR over much longer distances by breaching the CNS-PNS barrier. The transition between PNS and CNS myelin proteins was disorganized. During development, neural-crest derived boundary cap cells provide guidance to dorsal root ganglia axons growing into the dorsal spinal cord and at the same time block the inappropriate intrusion of CNS glia into DR. It is likely that frataxin is required during a critical period of permissive (axons) and nonpermissive (astroglia) border-control. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Child#Female#Friedreich Ataxia#Ganglia, Spinal#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Spinal Cord#Spinal Nerve Roots#Young Adult'
b'Primary central nervous system (CNS) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a subtype of DLBCL with an unfavorable prognosis and a poor response to the treatment. As we know, DLBCL is stratified into germinal center B-cell (GCB)-like and activated B-cell (ABC)-like subtypes with different prognosis according to their gene-expression characteristics. In this study, we analyzed a case series of 77 patients with primary CNS DLBCL. A difference in prognosis of GCB-like and ABC-like subtypes was noticed, but no statistical significance was found. However, significant prognostic value of MYC/BCL2 co-expression was shown. The cases with MYC/BCL2 co-expression did not show any predominance of the 2 subtypes in our cases. Furthermore, patients with MYC/BCL2 co-expression had significantly worse overall survival for both cell of origin (COO) subtypes. We conjecture that MYC/BCL2 co-expression is associated with a poorer prognosis and is independent of COO classification. Moreover, the data suggest that MYC/BCL2 co-expression is superior to COO classification assessed by immunohistochemical analysis in patients with primary CNS DLBCL. labels: #Aged#B-Lymphocytes#Central Nervous System Neoplasms#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Humans#Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc#Retrospective Studies'
b'BACKGROUND: Nail-bed injuries are the most common hand injury in children. Surgical dogma is to replace the nail plate after repairing the nail bed. Recent evidence suggests this might increase infection rates and returns to clinic. The aim of this feasibility trial was to inform the design and conduct of a definitive trial comparing replacing or discarding the nail plate after nail-bed repair.METHODS: This study recruited participants from four hand units in the UK between April and July 2015. Participants were children under the age of 16 years with a nail-bed injury requiring surgery. They were randomized to either having the nail plate replaced or discarded after nail-bed repair. The follow-up method was also allocated randomly (postal versus clinic). Information was collected on complications at 2 weeks and 30 days, and on nail-plate appearance at 4 months using the Zook classification. Two possible approaches to follow-up were also piloted and compared.RESULTS: During the recruitment phase, there were 156 potentially eligible children. Sixty were randomized in just over 3 months using remote web-based allocation. By 2 weeks, there were two infections, both in children with replaced nail plates. The nail-replaced group also experienced more complications. There was no evidence of a difference in return rates between postal and clinic follow-up.CONCLUSION: Recruitment was rapid and nail-bed repair appeared to have low complication and infection rates in this pilot trial. The findings have led to revision of the definitive trial protocol, including the mode and timing of follow-up, and modification of the Zook classification. labels: #Adolescent#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Child#Child, Preschool#Feasibility Studies#Female#Humans#Infant#Male#Nails#Pain#Pilot Projects#Postoperative Complications#Prospective Studies#Reconstructive Surgical Procedures#Surgical Wound Infection'
b'BACKGROUND: This study aimed to elucidate the clinical features and prognostic factors of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma (MCS) and investigate optimal treatment strategies.METHODS: Data from 57 patients with MCS were collected from a Japanese Musculoskeletal Oncology Group (JMOG) and retrospectively analyzed.RESULTS: Data from 29 males and 28 females were collected. Primary tumor sites were the head and neck (7 patients), trunk (35 patients), and extremities (15 patients). The tumors originating in the trunk were significantly associated with a worse OS compared with those originating at the other sites in all patients and those with localized disease (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.020 and P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.019, respectively). In patients with localized disease, the tumors originating in the head and neck were significantly associated with better OS and MFS compared with those originating in the trunk (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.024 and P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.014, respectively). Positive surgical margin was significantly correlated with the worse LRFS (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.018). Adjuvant chemotherapy exhibited a clear trend toward improved OS when MCS was localized in the trunk or extremities (P\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.057).CONCLUSIONS: Adequate surgery is considered to be the mainstay of treatment for localized MCS. Prognosis was different depending on the site of tumor origin. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Child#Chondrosarcoma, Mesenchymal#Female#Humans#Japan#Male#Middle Aged#Prognosis#Retrospective Studies#Surveys and Questionnaires#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult'
b"OBJECTIVE: Fetal exposure to maternal anti-SSA/Ro antibodies is necessary but not sufficient for the development of autoimmune congenital heart block (CHB), suggesting that other factors, such as fetal genetic predisposition, are important. Given the previously described association between major histocompatibility complex alleles and CHB risk, we undertook the present study to test the hypothesis that a variant form of HLA-C Asn80Lys, which binds with high affinity to an inhibitory killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) and thus renders natural killer (NK) cells incapable of restricting inflammation, contributes to the development of CHB.METHODS: Members of 192 pedigrees in the US and Europe (194 cases of CHB, 91 unaffected siblings, 152 fathers, 167 mothers) and 1,073 out-of-study controls were genotyped on the Immunochip single-nucleotide polymorphism microarray. Imputation was used to identify associations at HLA-C Asn80Lys (Asn, C1; Lys, C2) and KIR. Tests for association were performed using logistic regression. McNemar's test and the pedigree disequilibrium test (PDT) were used for matched analyses between affected and unaffected children.RESULTS: Compared with out-of-study controls of the same sex, the C2 allele was less frequent in the mothers (odds ratio [OR] 0.63, P = 0.0014) and more frequent in the fathers (OR 1.40, P = 0.0123), yielding a significant sex-by-C2 interaction (P = 0.0002). The C2 allele was more frequent in affected siblings than in unaffected siblings (OR 3.67, P = 0.0025), which was consistent with the PDT results (P = 0.016); these results were observed in both sexes and across the US and European cohorts. There was no difference in the frequency of the inhibitory KIR genotype (KIR AA) between affected and unaffected children (P = 0.55).CONCLUSION: These data establish C2 as a novel genetic risk factor associated with CHB. This observation supports a model in which fetuses with C2 ligand expression and maternal anti-SSA/Ro positivity may have impaired NK cell surveillance, resulting in unchecked cardiac inflammation and scarring. labels: #Antibodies, Antinuclear#Case-Control Studies#Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay#Europe#Fathers#Female#Genotype#HLA-C Antigens#Heart Block#Humans#Infant, Newborn#Logistic Models#Male#Mothers#Odds Ratio#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Genetic#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Sex Factors#Siblings#United States"
b'Antimicrobial peptides are important components of the host innate defense mechanism against invading pathogens, especially for drug-resistant bacteria. In addition to bactericidal activity, the 25 residue peptide TP4 isolated from Nile tilapia also stimulates cell proliferation and regulates the innate immune system in mice. In this report, TP4 hyperpolarized and depolarized the membrane potential of Pseudomonas aeruginosa at sub-lethal and lethal concentrations. It also inhibited and eradicated biofilm formation. The in vitro binding of TP4 to bacterial outer membrane target protein, OprI, was markedly enhanced by a membrane-like surfactant sarkosyl and lipopolysaccharide, which converted TP4 into an \xce\xb1-helix. The solution structure of TP4 in dodecylphosphocholine was solved by NMR analyses. It contained a typical \xce\xb1-helix at residues Phe10-Arg22 and a distorted helical segment at Ile6-Phe10, as well as a hydrophobic core at the N-terminus and a cationic patch at the C-terminus. Residues Ile16, Leu19 and Ile20 in the hydrophobic face of the main helix were critical for the integrity of amphipathic structure, other hydrophobic residues played important roles in hemolytic and bactericidal activities. A model for the assembly of helical TP4 embedded in sarkosyl vesicle is proposed. This study may provide valuable insight for engineering AMPs to have potent bactericidal activity but low hemolytic activity. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Antimicrobial Cationic Peptides#Bacterial Proteins#Biofilms#Candida albicans#Cell Membrane Permeability#Cichlids#Erythrocytes#Fish Proteins#Hydrophobic and Hydrophilic Interactions#Lipopolysaccharides#Lipoproteins#Listeria monocytogenes#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus#Mice#Mice, Inbred C57BL#Microbial Sensitivity Tests#Models, Molecular#Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Biomolecular#Phosphorylcholine#Protein Binding#Protein Conformation, alpha-Helical#Pseudomonas aeruginosa#Sarcosine'
b'Climate networks are powerful approaches to disclose tele-connections in climate systems and to predict severe climate events. Here we construct regional climate networks from precipitation data in the Amazonian region and focus on network properties under the recent drought events in 2005 and 2010. Both the networks of the entire Amazon region and the extreme networks resulted from locations severely affected by drought events suggest that network characteristics show slight difference between the two drought events. Based on network degrees of extreme drought events and that without drought conditions, we identify regions of interest that are correlated to longer expected drought period length. Moreover, we show that the spatial correlation length to the regions of interest decayed much faster in 2010 than in 2005, which is because of the dual roles played by both the Pacific and Atlantic oceans. The results suggest that hub nodes in the regional climate network of Amazonia have fewer long-range connections when more severe drought conditions appeared in 2010 than that in 2005. labels: #Atlantic Ocean#Climate#Droughts#Models, Theoretical#Pacific Ocean#Rain#Seasons#Temperature'
b'BACKGROUND: There is evidence that NK-cell reactivity might affect graft outcome in transplant recipients and pregnancy in women.METHOD: NK-cell subsets were determined in whole blood using eight-colour-fluorescence flow cytometry in patients before and after renal transplantation, patients with recurrent miscarriage (RM) and healthy controls (HC).RESULTS: Patients late post-transplant (late-Tx) with functioning renal transplants showed abnormally low CD56dimCD16+ NK-cells containing both perforin and granzyme (vs HC p = 0.021) whereas RM patients exhibited abnormally high numbers of these cells (vs HC p = 0.043). CD56dimCD16+perforin+granzyme+ NK-cell counts were strikingly different between the two patient groups (p<0.001). In addition, recipients late-Tx showed abnormally low CD8+ NK-cells (vs HC p<0.001) in contrast to RM patients who showed an abnormal increase (vs HC p = 0.008). CD8+ NK-cell counts were strongly different between the two patient groups (p<0.001). Higher perforin+granzyme+CD56dimCD16+ and CD8+ NK-cells were associated with impaired graft function (p = 0.044, p = 0.032). After in-vitro stimulation, CD56dimCD16+ and CD56brightCD16dim/- NK-cells showed strong upregulation of CD107a and IFNy, whereas the content of perforin decreased dramatically as a consequence of perforin release. Recipients late post-Tx showed less in-vitro perforin release (= less cytotoxicity) than HC (p = 0.037) and lower perforin release was associated with good graft function (r = 0.738, p = 0.037). Notably, we observed strong in-vitro perforin release in 2 of 6 investigated RM patients. When circulating IL10+CD56bright NK-cells were analyzed, female recipients late post-Tx (n = 9) showed significantly higher relative and absolute cell numbers than RM patients (p = 0.002 and p = 0.018, respectively); and high relative and absolute IL10+CD56bright NK-cell numbers in transplant recipients were associated with low serum creatinine (p = 0.004 and p = 0.012) and high glomerular filtration rate (p = 0.011 and p = 0.002, respectively). Female recipients late post-Tx exhibited similar absolute but higher relative numbers of IL10+IFNy- NK-cells than RM patients (p>0.05 and p = 0.016, respectively).CONCLUSION: NK-cells with lower cytotoxicity and immunoregulatory function might contribute to good long-term graft outcome, whereas circulating NK-cells with normal or even increased cytotoxicity and less immunoregulatory capacity are observed in patients with RM. labels: #Abortion, Habitual#Adult#Aged#CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes#Female#Flow Cytometry#Glomerular Filtration Rate#Granzymes#Humans#Kidney#Kidney Transplantation#Killer Cells, Natural#Male#Middle Aged#Perforin#Pregnancy#Transplant Recipients'
b'AIM: To compare capecitabine and oxaliplatin (XELOX) with S-1 as adjuvant chemotherapy in stage III gastric cancer after D2 gastrectomy.METHODS: Clinical data from 206 patients who received XELOX or S-1 regimens as adjuvant chemotherapy in stage III gastric cancer were collected. Patients were divided into 2 groups according to regimen; the groups were XELOX (n = 114) and S-1 monotherapy (n = 92).RESULTS: 3-year disease-free survival (DFS) was higher in the S-1 group than in the XELOX group (66.6% vs 59.1%; p = 0.636). 3-year overall survival (OS) was 75.6% in the S-1 group and 69.6% in the XELOX group (p = 0.495). But, the difference was not statistically significant. Especially, for patients with stage IIIC disease, 3-year overall survival was 55.2% in the XELOX group and 39.0% in the S-1 group (hazard ratio, HR 0.50, 95% confidence interval, CI 0.23-1.10; p = 0.075). In multivariate analysis, N stage (HR, 5.639; 95% CI, 1.297-24.522; p = 0.021) and cycle completion as planned (HR, 5.734; 95% CI, 3.007-10.936; p<0.001) were independent predictors of overall survival.CONCLUSION: Adjuvant XELOX and S-1 regimen did not prove anything superior for stage III gastric cancer in this study. But, XELOX had a tendency to be superior to S-1 in stage IIIC gastric cancer after D2 gastrectomy although the difference was not statistically significant. N stage and cycle completion as planned were prognostic factors. labels: #Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols#Capecitabine#Chemotherapy, Adjuvant#Disease-Free Survival#Drug Combinations#Drug-Related Side Effects and Adverse Reactions#Female#Gastrectomy#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Neoplasm Staging#Organoplatinum Compounds#Oxonic Acid#Stomach Neoplasms#Tegafur#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Trunk axial rotation is a risk factor for chronic low back pain (CLBP). The characteristics of rotational mobility in the pelvis and spine among CLBP patients are not fully understood.PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to examine three-dimensional kinematic changes, and to compare the differences of rotational mobility and coupled motion, in patients with and without CLBP.METHODS: Fifteen patients with CLBP and 15 age and sex matched healthy subjects participated in this study. Each subject performed trunk rotation to maximum range of motion (ROM) in a standing position. The kinematics data was collected using a three-dimensional motion analysis system. The outcomes measured were the rotational ROM and the spine/pelvis ratio (SPR) in transvers plane at both maximum and 50% rotation position. The coupled angles in sagittal and frontal planes were also measured.RESULTS: No significant differences in rotational ROM of the thorax, pelvis, and spine were observed between two groups at maximum rotation position. However, there was a significant interaction between groups and rotational ROM of pelvis and spine (F = 4.57, p = 0.04), and the SPR in CLBP patients was significantly greater than that of the healthy subjects (CLBP; 0.50 \xc2\xb1 0.10 Control; 0.41 \xc2\xb1 0.12, p = 0.04). The results at 50% rotation position were similar to that at maximum rotation. This indicates a relative increase in spinal rotation in the CLBP patients during trunk rotation. Moreover, the CLBP patients exhibited a significantly higher anterior tilt of the pelvis and extension of the spine in the sagittal plane coupled with rotation.CONCLUSIONS: CLBP patients had relative hyper rotational mobility of the spine as well as excessive spinal extension coupled with trunk rotation. These results suggest that uncoordinated trunk rotation might be a functional failure associated with CLBP. labels: #Adult#Case-Control Studies#Female#Humans#Low Back Pain#Male#Pelvis#Posture#Range of Motion, Articular#Rotation#Spine#Stress, Mechanical#Torso'
b'INTRODUCTION: Nodular hyperplasia of parathyroid glands (PG) is the most probable cause of medical treatment failure in secondary hyperparathyroidism (sHPT). This prospective cohort study is located at the interface of medical and surgical consideration of sHPT treatment options and identifies risk-factors for nodular hyperplasia of PG.MATERIAL AND METHODS: One-hundred-eight resected PG of 27 patients with a broad spectrum of sHPT severity were classified according to the degree of hyperplasia by histopathology. Twenty routinely gathered parameters from medical history, ultrasound findings of PG and laboratory results were analyzed for their influence on nodular hyperplasia of PG by risk-adjusted multivariable binary regression. A prognostic model for non-invasive assessment of PG was developed and used to weight the individual impact of identified risk-factors on the probability of nodular hyperplasia of single PG.RESULTS: Independent risk-factors for nodular hyperplasia of single PG were duration of dialysis in years, PG volume in mm3 determined by ultrasound and serum level of parathyroid hormone in pg/mL. Multivariable analyses computed a model with an Area Under the Receiver Operative Curve of 0.857 (95%-CI:0.773-0.941) when predicting nodular hyperplasia of PG. Theoretical assessment of risk-factor interaction revealed that the duration of dialysis had the strongest influence on the probability of nodular hyperplasia of single PG.CONCLUSIONS: The three identified risk-factors (duration of dialysis, PG volume determined by ultrasound and serum level of parathyroid hormone) can be easily gathered in daily routine and could be used to non-invasively assess the probability of nodular hyperplasia of PG. This assessment would benefit from periodically collected data sets of PG changes during the course of sHPT, so that the choice of medical or surgical sHPT treatment could be adjusted more to the naturally changing type of histological PG lesion on an individually adopted basis in the future. labels: #Adult#Aged#Biomarkers#Female#Humans#Hyperparathyroidism, Secondary#Hyperplasia#Middle Aged#Organ Size#Parathyroid Glands#Parathyroid Hormone#Parathyroidectomy#Prognosis#Prospective Studies#ROC Curve#Renal Dialysis#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Ultrasonography, Doppler'
b'BACKGROUND: Total daily energy expenditure (TEE) is composed of resting metabolic rate (RMR), post-prandial thermogenesis and activity energy expenditure (AEE). Higher AEE is strongly associated with lower mortality and physical limitations among older adults, but factors that predict changes in AEE in septu and octogenarians are not clearly understood.OBJECTIVE: To identify factors associated with late-life longitudinal change in AEE.DESIGN: Energy expenditure was re-assessed in 83 participants (average age at baseline, 74.4\xc2\xb13.2 years)-an average of 7.5\xc2\xb10.54 years since the baseline measure. RMR was measured using indirect calorimetry and the thermic effect of meals was estimated at 10% of TEE. AEE was calculated as: TEE(0.9)-RMR. Participants were categorized into two groups according to the estimated day-to-day precision of the doubly-labeled water technique. Those who were within 10% or increased relative to their initial AEE measurement were categorized as having preserved AEE. Participants who declined greater than 10% of their initial measurement were categorized as having reduced AEE. A variety of socio-demographic, functional and mental factors, body composition, community and personal behaviors, blood measurements and health conditions were evaluated between groups at baseline and changes during follow-up.RESULTS: Daily AEE declined 106.61\xc2\xb1293.25 kcal, which equated to a 14.63\xc2\xb140.57 kcal/d decrease per year. Fifty-nine percent (n = 49) preserved their AEE and 41% (n = 34) declined. Those who demonstrated a decline in AEE were older, had lower walking speed at baseline and showed a higher lean mass loss during follow up. Otherwise, groups were similar for socio-demographic characteristics, body composition, mental and physical function, health conditions and community and personal behaviors at baseline and change in these factors during follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that AEE declines through the 8th decade of life and is associated with age, lower walking speed at baseline and lean mass loss. Additionally, there are a significant number of individuals who appear to be resilient to these declines despite having health events that are expected to have a negative impact on their physical activity. labels: #Aged#Basal Metabolism#Body Composition#Calorimetry, Indirect#Energy Metabolism#Exercise#Female#Humans#Male'
b"PURPOSE: Speed estimation of drivers' own vehicles and other vehicles on the road is an important task for drivers and is also crucial to the roadway safety. The objective of the study was to examine the effects of multiple factors such as image scale, speed, road type, driving experience, and gender on the speed perception of drivers' own vehicles.METHODS: Thirty participants consisted of 17 males and 13 females, including 13 without driving experience. All participants estimated the driving speed of 192 5-second video clips, which were selected from naturalistic driving recordings. The recorded driving speeds were evenly distributed across the entire range from 5mph to 65mph. Half of the selected video clips were recorded on wide roads and another half were recorded on comparatively narrow roads. Video clips were played on a large screen, with each clip shown in one of 4 image scales (100%, 75%, 50%, and 38% of the actual field of view in the real world).RESULTS: Speed estimates were most accurate for the smallest image size (38% of the actual field of view). As the image size increased, the driving speed was increasingly underestimated. Participants with driving experience accurately estimated the driving speed on both wide and narrow roads whereas those without driving experience had greater underestimates on wider roads. Speeds were most accurately estimated within the range 25-35mph, but the speeds slower than the range tend to be overestimated and the speeds faster than the range are more likely to be underestimated. While males and females showed the same pattern across speed groups, females have greater estimation errors at the highest and lowest speed groups. Participants without driving experience showed increasing underestimation of speed as driving speed increased whereas participants with driving experience primarily underestimated the highest speeds.CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows the effect of multidimensional influential factors on perceived vehicle speed from drivers' perspective. The results also have implications for driving simulation scenario design, driving simulator setup, and the assessment of speed control in simulated and naturalistic environments. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Automobile Driving#Computer Simulation#Distance Perception#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Motion Perception#Safety#Task Performance and Analysis#Video Recording#Visual Perception"
b'RNA interference (RNAi) controls arbovirus infections in mosquitoes. Two different RNAi pathways are involved in antiviral responses: the PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) and exogenous short interfering RNA (exo-siRNA) pathways, which are characterized by the production of virus-derived small RNAs of 25-29 and 21 nucleotides, respectively. The exo-siRNA pathway is considered to be the key mosquito antiviral response mechanism. In Aedes aegypti-derived cells, Zika virus (ZIKV)-specific siRNAs were produced and loaded into the exo-siRNA pathway effector protein Argonaute 2 (Ago2); although the knockdown of Ago2 did not enhance virus replication. Enhanced ZIKV replication was observed in a Dcr2-knockout cell line suggesting that the exo-siRNA pathway is implicated in the antiviral response. Although ZIKV-specific piRNA-sized small RNAs were detected, these lacked the characteristic piRNA ping-pong signature motif and were bound to Ago3 but not Piwi5 or Piwi6. Silencing of PIWI proteins indicated that the knockdown of Ago3, Piwi5 or Piwi6 did not enhance ZIKV replication and only Piwi4 displayed antiviral activity. We also report that the expression of ZIKV capsid (C) protein amplified the replication of a reporter alphavirus; although, unlike yellow fever virus C protein, it does not inhibit the exo-siRNA pathway. Our findings elucidate ZIKV-mosquito RNAi interactions that are important for understanding its spread. labels: #Aedes#Alphavirus#Animals#Capsid Proteins#Cell Line#Host-Pathogen Interactions#Insect Proteins#RNA Interference#RNA, Small Interfering#Virus Replication#Yellow fever virus#Zika Virus#Zika Virus Infection'
b'Flotation is an important part of coal preparation, and the flotation column is widely applied as efficient flotation equipment. This process is complex and affected by many factors, with the froth depth and reagent dosage being two of the most important and frequently manipulated variables. This paper proposes a new method of switching and optimizing control for the coal flotation process. A hybrid model is built and evaluated using industrial data. First, wavelet analysis and principal component analysis (PCA) are applied for signal pre-processing. Second, a control model for optimizing the set point of the froth depth is constructed based on fuzzy control, and a control model is designed to optimize the reagent dosages based on expert system. Finally, the least squares-support vector machine (LS-SVM) is used to identify the operating conditions of the flotation process and to select one of the two models (froth depth or reagent dosage) for subsequent operation according to the condition parameters. The hybrid model is developed and evaluated on an industrial coal flotation column and exhibits satisfactory performance. labels: #Chemical Fractionation#Coal Mining#Humans#Principal Component Analysis#Support Vector Machine#Wavelet Analysis'
b'BACKGROUND: As innovations in the prevention and treatment of HIV and TB advance, continuing professional development (CPD) of health care workers (HCWs) remains a high priority, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa where dual TB/HIV epidemics are compounded by severe HCW shortages. There is further need to examine CPD programs to identify challenges and effective solutions to strengthen HIV/TB-related CPD.METHODS: Qualitative evaluations in Malawi, Tanzania and South Africa (RSA) were conducted using key informant interviews (KIIs) and focus group discussions (FGDs) in each country to identify barriers and enablers of effective HIV/TB-related CPD. Key stakeholders represented CPD implementers, regulators, and developers. HCWs were purposively sampled from high disease burden districts; each HCW completed brief, semi-structured questionnaires and participated in a FGD. KII and FGD results were combined into key themes spanning across countries using a grounded theory approach.RESULTS: Fifty-two KIIs were conducted: 17 in Malawi, 19 in Tanzania and 16 in RSA. Eighty-nine HCWs (24 from Malawi, 38 from Tanzania and 27 from RSA) completed questionnaires and participated in FGDs. Primarily, lack of sustainable financial resources and limitations in coordination of CPD result in poor accountability for CPD oversight and reduce CPD quality assurance. Healthcare worker shortages limit CPD opportunities, creating disparities in CPD access. CPD irrelevance and imbalance between HCW-identified CPD needs and current programs reduce enthusiasm for CPD. Facility-level constraints, including poor infrastructure and weak supply chains, restrict implementation of CPD skills and knowledge. Challenges are more severe in rural settings.CONCLUSION: To address identified gaps, sustainable funding, strong leadership and collaboration at every level are needed to strengthen CPD regulation and accreditation systems; increase CPD accessibility in the workplace; and create enabling environments for CPD implementation. Together, these improvements may improve TB/HIV CPD quality and patient outcomes. labels: #Adult#Education, Medical, Continuing#Education, Nursing, Continuing#Female#HIV Infections#Health Personnel#Humans#Malawi#Male#Middle Aged#Qualitative Research#Quality of Health Care#South Africa#Surveys and Questionnaires#Tanzania#Tuberculosis, Pulmonary'
b'Biomass was used as reducing agent to roast the Baotou low-grade limonite in a high temperature vacuum atmosphere furnace. The effect of calcination temperature, time and ratio of reducing agent on the magnetic properties of calcined ore was studied by VSM. The phase and microstructure changes of limonite before and after calcination were analyzed by XRD and SEM. The results show that in the roasting process the phase transition process of the ferrous material in limonite is first dehydrated at high temperature to form\xce\xb1-Fe2O3, and then it is converted into Fe3O4 by the reduction of biomass. With the increase of calcination temperature, the magnetic properties of the calcined ore first increase and then decrease. When the temperature is higher than 650\xc2\xb0C, Fe3O4 will become Fe2SiO4, resulting in reduced the magnetic material in calcined ore and the magnetic weakened. The best magnetization effect was obtained when the roasting temperature is 550\xc2\xb0C, the percentage of biomass was 15% and the roasting time was 30min. The saturation magnetization can reach 60.13emu\xc2\xb7g-1, the recovery of iron was 72% and the grade of iron was 58%. labels: #Biomass#Ferric Compounds#Hot Temperature#Iron#Magnetics#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Reducing Agents#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'Microglia-involved neuroinflammation is thought to promote brain damage in various neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, inhibition of microglial over-activation may have a therapeutic benefit for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Micheliolide (MCL) is a sesquiterpene lactone which inhibits various inflammatory response. However, whether MCL can inhibit neuroinflammation caused by LPS-activated BV2 microglia has not yet been explored. In this study, we demonstrated that treatment of BV2 cells with MCL significantly repressed LPS-stimulated nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression, as well as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-\xce\xb1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and nitric oxide (NO) induction. MCL also attenuated mRNA levels of multiple pro-inflammatory cytokines and mediators such as iNOS, COX-2, TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-6 and IL-1\xce\xb2. Mechanistic studies revealed that MCL suppressed LPS-stimulated the activation of I\xce\xbaB\xce\xb1/NF-\xce\xbaB pathway and Akt pathway. Moreover, MCL inhibited LPS-induced the activition of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 MAPK kinase, and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2). Meanwhile, MCL markedly promoted antioxidant protein heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression by enhancing NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) activity. Together, our results imply that MCL may serve as a neuroprotective agent in neuroinflammation-related neurodegenerative disorders. labels: #Animals#Anti-Inflammatory Agents#Cell Line, Transformed#Cyclooxygenase 2#Gene Expression Regulation#Heme Oxygenase-1#Humans#Interleukin-1beta#Interleukin-6#Lipopolysaccharides#MAP Kinase Kinase 4#Membrane Proteins#Mice#Microglia#NF-E2-Related Factor 2#NF-kappa B#Neuroprotective Agents#Nitric Oxide#Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II#Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt#Sesquiterpenes, Guaiane#Signal Transduction#Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha#p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases'
b'This case study involves a 22-year-old male who experienced\nmoderate pain in the left side of the mandible for two months. He was diagnosedwith an osteoblastoma and treated with local excision, curettage and extraction\nof the involved teeth. Radiographic follow-up indicated that the site healed well.Clinical, radiographic and histopathologic features are discussed. Osteoblastoma\nrequires interdisciplinary care and should be considered in the differential diagnosisof mixed-density lesions detected in the jaws. labels: #Diagnosis, Differential#Humans#Male#Mandibular Neoplasms#Osteoblastoma#Radiography, Panoramic#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'We investigated concentrations and roles of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)\nand its binding protein (IGF1BP-3), growth hormone (GH), insulin, and markers of insulin resistanceand inflammation in acute myocardial infarction (AMI). We aimed to assess any possible association\nbetween serum GH/IGF-1 axis following AMI and short-term survival rates. A follow upstudy was performed in 2010. Study group consisted of 75 patients with Killip I and II class AMI.\nThere were 30 control subjects. Blood samples were obtained within 24 hours of admission and analyzedfor the aforementioned hormones. Patients were followed-up during 6 months for new cardiac\nevents. Median GH was higher in AMI (0.96; range 0.6-2.4) than in controls (0.26; p<0.001). IGF-1\nwas significantly lower in AMI (123 vs. 132; p<0.05), and so was the IGF-1/GH ratio (p<0.001) and\nIGF1BP-3. Insulin was higher in study group, but without statistical significance. However, we foundsignificant between-group differences in other markers of insulin resistance (HbA1c, glycemia,\nHOMA-IR) and inflammation. Simple linear correlation showed positive correlation between GHand C-reactive protein. All patients with new cardiac events had IGF-1 below median and lower left\nventricular ejection fraction. In conclusion, IGF-1 may affect outcome of AMI. GH resistance mightbe a result of inflammatory/immune response and therefore it could be a useful prognostic marker. labels: #Aged#Biomarkers#Female#Human Growth Hormone#Humans#Insulin-Like Growth Factor I#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Prognosis'
b'BACKGROUND: The substrate location and underlying electrophysiological mechanisms that contribute to the characteristic ECG pattern of Brugada syndrome (BrS) are still debated. Using noninvasive electrocardiographical imaging, we studied whole heart conduction and repolarization patterns during ajmaline challenge in BrS individuals.METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 13 participants (mean age, 44\xc2\xb112 years; 8 men), 11 concealed patients with type I BrS and 2 healthy controls, underwent an ajmaline infusion with electrocardiographical imaging and ECG recordings. Electrocardiographical imaging activation recovery intervals and activation timings across the right ventricle (RV) body, outflow tract (RVOT), and left ventricle were calculated and analyzed at baseline and when type I BrS pattern manifested after ajmaline infusion. Peak J-ST point elevation was calculated from the surface ECG and compared with the electrocardiographical imaging-derived parameters at the same time point. After ajmaline infusion, the RVOT had the greatest increase in conduction delay (5.4\xc2\xb12.8 versus 2.0\xc2\xb12.8 versus 1.1\xc2\xb11.6 ms;P=0.007) and activation recovery intervals prolongation (69\xc2\xb132 versus 39\xc2\xb129 versus 21\xc2\xb112 ms;P=0.0005) compared with RV or left ventricle. In controls, there was minimal change in J-ST point elevation, conduction delay, or activation recovery intervals at all sites with ajmaline. In patients with BrS, conduction delay in RVOT, but not RV or left ventricle, correlated to the degree of J-ST point elevation (PearsonR, 0.81;P<0.001). No correlation was found between J-ST point elevation and activation recovery intervals prolongation in the RVOT, RV, or left ventricle.CONCLUSIONS: Magnitude of ST (J point) elevation in the type I BrS pattern is attributed to degree of conduction delay in the RVOT and not prolongation in repolarization time. labels: #Action Potentials#Adult#Ajmaline#Anti-Arrhythmia Agents#Body Surface Potential Mapping#Brugada Syndrome#Case-Control Studies#Electrocardiography#Female#Heart Conduction System#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Predictive Value of Tests#Refractory Period, Electrophysiological#Signal Processing, Computer-Assisted#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Recent studies have demonstrated that intramyocardial adipose tissue (IMAT) may contribute to ventricular electrophysiological remodeling in patients with chronic myocardial infarction. Using an ovine model of myocardial infarction, we aimed to determine the influence of IMAT on scar tissue identification during endocardial contact mapping and optimal voltage-based mapping criteria for defining IMAT dense regions.METHOD AND RESULTS: In 7 sheep, left ventricular endocardial and transmural mapping was performed 84 weeks (15-111 weeks) post-myocardial infarction. Spearman rank correlation coefficient was used to assess the relationship between endocardial contact electrogram amplitude and histological composition of myocardium. Receiver operator characteristic curves were used to derive optimal electrogram thresholds for IMAT delineation during endocardial mapping and to describe the use of endocardial mapping for delineation of IMAT dense regions within scar. Endocardial electrogram amplitude correlated significantly with IMAT (unipolarr=-0.48\xc2\xb10.12,P<0.001; bipolarr=-0.45\xc2\xb10.22,P=0.04) but not collagen (unipolarr=-0.36\xc2\xb10.24,P=0.13; bipolarr=-0.43\xc2\xb10.31,P=0.16). IMAT dense regions of myocardium reliably identified using endocardial mapping with thresholds of<3.7 and<0.6 mV, respectively, for unipolar, bipolar, and combined modalities (single modality area under the curve=0.80,P<0.001; combined modality area under the curve=0.84,P<0.001). Unipolar mapping using optimal thresholding remained significantly reliable (area under the curve=0.76,P<0.001) during mapping of IMAT, confined to putative scar border zones (bipolar amplitude, 0.5-1.5 mV).CONCLUSIONS: These novel findings enhance our understanding of the confounding influence of IMAT on endocardial scar mapping. Combined bipolar and unipolar voltage mapping using optimal thresholds may be useful for delineating IMAT dense regions of myocardium, in postinfarct cardiomyopathy. labels: #Action Potentials#Adipose Tissue#Animals#Area Under Curve#Biopsy#Cicatrix#Collagen#Disease Models, Animal#Electrophysiologic Techniques, Cardiac#Endocardium#Heart Rate#Male#Myocardial Infarction#Myocardium#Predictive Value of Tests#ROC Curve#Reproducibility of Results#Sheep, Domestic#Signal Processing, Computer-Assisted'
b"BACKGROUND: Arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy (AC) is an inherited heart muscle disease associated with point mutations in genes encoding for cardiac desmosome proteins. Conventional mutation screening is positive in \xe2\x89\x8850% of probands. Copy number variations (CNVs) have recently been linked to AC pointing to the need to determine the prevalence of CNVs in desmosomal genes and to evaluate disease penetrance by cosegregation analysis in family members.METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 160 AC genotype-negative probands for 5 AC desmosomal genes by conventional mutation screening underwent multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Nine heterozygous CNVs were identified in 11 (6.9%) of the 160 probands. Five carried a deletion of the entire plakophilin-2 (PKP2) gene, 2 a deletion of onlyPKP2exon 4, 1 a deletion of thePKP2exons 6 to 11, 1 aPKP2duplication of 5' untranslated region till exon 1, 1 the desmocollin-2 (DSC2) duplication of exons 7 to 9, and 1 a large deletion of chromosome 18 comprising bothDSC2anddesmoglein-2genes. All probands were affected by moderate-severe forms of the disease, whereas 10 (32%) of the 31 family members carrying one of these deletions fulfilled the diagnostic criteria.CONCLUSIONS: Genomic rearrangements were detected in \xe2\x89\x887% of AC probands negative for pathogenic point mutations in desmosomal genes, highlighting the potential of CNVs analysis to substantially increase the diagnostic yield of genetic testing. Genotype-phenotype correlation demonstrated the presence of the disease in about one third of family members carrying the CNV, underlying the role of other factors in the development and progression of the disease. labels: #Action Potentials#Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia#DNA Copy Number Variations#DNA Mutational Analysis#Desmocollins#Desmoglein 2#Desmoplakins#Desmosomes#Electrocardiography#Electrophysiologic Techniques, Cardiac#Female#Gene Deletion#Gene Dosage#Gene Duplication#Gene Rearrangement#Genetic Association Studies#Genetic Markers#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Heart Rate#Heredity#Humans#Italy#Male#Middle Aged#Multiplex Polymerase Chain Reaction#Pedigree#Phenotype#Plakophilins#Point Mutation#Risk Factors#Young Adult#gamma Catenin"
b'BACKGROUND: Although dofetilide labeling states that the drug must be initiated or reinitiated with continuous electrocardiographic monitoring and in the presence of trained personnel, the risks of dofetilide reloading justifying repeat hospitalization have not been investigated.METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients admitted for dofetilide reloading for atrial arrhythmias were retrospectively reviewed. The need for dose adjustment and the incidence of torsades de pointes (TdP) were identified. The incidence of TdP in dofetilide reloading was compared with patients admitted for dofetilide initial loading. Of 138 patients admitted for dofetilide reloading for atrial arrhythmias, 102 were reloaded at a previously tolerated dose, 30 with a higher dose from a previously tolerated dose and 2 at a lower dose; prior dosage was unknown in 4 patients. Dose adjustment or discontinuation was required in 44 patients (31.9%). No TdP occurred in the same dose reloading group, but TdP occurred in 2 patients admitted to increase dofetilide dosage (0% versus 6.7%;P=0.050). Dofetilide dose adjustment or discontinuation was required in 30 of 102 patients (29.4%) reloaded at a previously tolerated dose and in 11 of 30 patients (36.7%) admitted for an increase in dose.CONCLUSIONS: Although no TdP occurred in patients admitted to reload dofetilide at the same dose as previously tolerated, dosage adjustments or discontinuation was frequent and support the need for hospitalization for dofetilide reloading. Patients admitted for reloading with a higher dose tended to be at higher risk for TdP than patients reloaded at a prior tolerated dose. labels: #Administration, Oral#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Anti-Arrhythmia Agents#Arrhythmias, Cardiac#Drug Administration Schedule#Drug Dosage Calculations#Electrocardiography, Ambulatory#Female#Heart Atria#Heart Rate#Humans#Male#Medical Records#Middle Aged#Patient Admission#Phenethylamines#Predictive Value of Tests#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Sulfonamides#Time Factors#Torsades de Pointes#Treatment Outcome'
b'Guillain-Barr\xc3\xa9 syndrome (GBS) is a heterogeneous group of acute immune-mediated neuropathies, including acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (AIDP) and acute motor axonal neuropathy (AMAN). AMAN is an axonal subtype of GBS that has been known since the 1990s; this term was first used to describe a summer epidemic of acute ascending paralysis observed in children in northern China (and Mexico). It is pathologically characterized by noninflammatory axonal degeneration of the motor nerves (with little or no demyelination). The French neurologist Jules Dejerine (1849-1917) conducted a clinical and pathologic description of AMAN in the late 19th century. We describe his observations, which provide us with valuable information on the course of pathologic lesions in this disease. labels: #Axons#Brain#France#Guillain-Barre Syndrome#History, 19th Century#History, 20th Century#Humans#Male#Medical Illustration#Muscle, Skeletal#Neurologists#Peripheral Nerves'
b'BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common cardiac disease in aging populations with high comorbidity and mortality. Sex differences in AF epidemiology are insufficiently understood.METHODS: In N=79\xe2\x80\x89793 individuals without AF diagnosis at baseline (median age, 49.6 years; age range, 24.1-97.6 years; 51.7% women) from 4 community-based European studies (FINRISK, DanMONICA, Moli-sani Northern Sweden) of the BiomarCaRE consortium (Biomarker for Cardiovascular Risk Assessment in Europe), we examined AF incidence, its association with mortality, common risk factors, biomarkers, and prevalent cardiovascular disease, and their attributable risk by sex. Median follow-up time was 12.6 (to a maximum of 28.2) years.RESULTS: Fewer AF cases were observed in women (N=1796; 4.4%), than in men (N=2465; 6.4%). Cardiovascular risk factor distribution and lipid profile at baseline were less beneficial in men than in women, and cardiovascular disease was more prevalent in men. Cumulative incidence increased markedly after the age of 50 years in men and after 60 years in women. The lifetime risk was similar (>30%) for both sexes. Subjects with incident AF had a 3.5-fold risk of death in comparison with those without AF. Multivariable-adjusted models showed sex differences for the association of body mass index and AF (hazard ratio per standard deviation increase, 1.18; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12-1.23 in women versus 1.31; 95% CI 1.25-1.38 in men; interactionPvalue of 0.001). Total cholesterol was inversely associated with incident AF with a greater risk reduction in women (hazard ratio per SD, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.81-0.90 versus 0.92; 95% CI, 0.88-0.97 in men; interactionPvalue of 0.023). No sex differences were seen for C-reactive protein and N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide. The population-attributable risk of all risk factors combined was 41.9% in women and 46.0% in men. About 20% of the risk was observed for body mass index.CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime risk of AF was high, and AF was strongly associated with increased mortality both in women and men. Body mass index explained the largest proportion of AF risk. Observed sex differences in the association of body mass index and total cholesterol with AF need to be evaluated for underlying pathophysiology and relevance to sex-specific prevention strategies. labels: #Adult#Age Factors#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Atrial Fibrillation#Body Mass Index#Cholesterol#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Norway#Risk Factors#Sex Characteristics#Sex Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Clinical trials have established the average benefit of cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT), but estimating benefit for individual patients remains difficult because of the heterogeneity in treatment response. Accordingly, we created a multivariable model to predict changes in quality of life (QoL) with and without CRT.METHODS AND RESULTS: Patient-level data from 5 randomized trials comparing CRT with no CRT were used to create a prediction model of change in QoL at 3 months using a partial proportional odds model for no change, small, moderate, and large improvement, or deterioration of any magnitude. The C statistics for not worsening or obtaining at least a small, moderate, and large improvement were calculated. Among the 3614 patients, regardless of assigned treatment, 33.3% had a deterioration in QoL, 9.2% had no change, 9.2% had a small improvement, 13.5% had a moderate improvement, and the remaining 34.9% had a large improvement. Patients undergoing CRT were less likely to have a decrement in their QoL (28.2% versus 38.9%;P<0.001) and more likely to have a large QoL improvement (38.7% versus 30.6%;P<0.001). A partial proportional odds model identified baseline QoL, age, and an interaction of CRT with QRS duration as predictors of QoL benefits 3 months after randomization. C statistics of 0.65 for not worsening, 0.68 for at least a small improvement, 0.69 for at least a moderate improvement, and 0.73 for predicting a large improvement were observed.CONCLUSIONS: There is marked heterogeneity of treatment benefit of CRT that can be predicted based on baseline QoL, age, and QRS duration. labels: #Action Potentials#Age Factors#Aged#Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy#Decision Support Techniques#Electrocardiography#Evidence-Based Medicine#Female#Health Status#Heart Failure#Heart Rate#Humans#Linear Models#Logistic Models#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Odds Ratio#Precision Medicine#Predictive Value of Tests#Quality of Life#Randomized Controlled Trials as Topic#Recovery of Function#Risk Assessment#Risk Factors#Time Factors#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: One schedule for the capsular group B meningococcal vaccine 4CMenB is 2 doses that are administered 2 months apart for children aged 12-23 months, with a booster dose 12-24 months later. Our objective was to provide data on persistence of human serum bactericidal antibody (hSBA) titres in children up to 4 years of age after initial doses at 12-24 months, and immunogenicity of a booster dose at 48 months of age compared with vaccine-naive children.METHODS: Children previously immunized, as part of a randomized controlled trial, with 2 doses of 4CMenB vaccine at 12-24 months of age received a booster at 4 years of age. Vaccine-naive age-matched toddlers received 2 doses of 4CMenB. Human serum bactericidal antibody titres against reference strains H44/76, 5/99, NZ98/254 and M10713 were evaluated before and after innoculation with 4CMenB vaccine in 4-year-old children.RESULTS: Of 332 children in the study, 123 had previously received 4CMenB and 209 were vaccine-naive controls. Before the booster, the proportions of participants (previously vaccinated groups compared with controls) with hSBA titres of 1:5 or more were as follows: 9%-11% v. 1% (H44/76), 84%-100% v. 4% (5/99), 0%-18% v. 0% (NZ98/254) and 59%-60% v. 60% (M10713). After 1 dose of 4CMenB in previously immunized children, the proportions of participants achieving hSBA titres of 1:5 or more were 100% (H44/76 and 5/99), 70%-100% (NZ98/254) and 90%-100% (M10713).INTERPRETATION: We found that waning of hSBA titres by 4 years of age occurred after 2 doses of 4CMenB vaccine administered at 12-24 months, and doses at 12-24 months have a priming effect on the immune system. A booster may be necessary to maintain hSBA titres of 1:5 or more among those children with increased disease risk.Trial registration: ClinicalTrials.gov, no. NCT01717638. labels: #Antibodies, Bacterial#Child, Preschool#Dose-Response Relationship, Drug#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Infant#Male#Meningitis, Meningococcal#Meningococcal Vaccines#Neisseria meningitidis, Serogroup B#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome#Vaccination'
b'OBJECTIVES: Understand the role of health beliefs in shaping maternal decisions regarding help-seeking for children with developmental delay (DD) and explore differences between African American and Hispanic mothers.METHODS: Open-ended, semistructured interviews were conducted with African American and Hispanic mothers of children aged 0 to 36 months with DD. Interviews were recorded, transcribed, and analyzed by using inductive content analysis.RESULTS: Mothers (n= 22) were African American (36%) or Hispanic (64%), 25 to 34 years old (64%), had less than a high school education (59%), and had children receiving public insurance (95%). Five major themes emerged describing the role of maternal health beliefs in shaping key stages of the help-seeking pathway for children with DD: (1) "I can see" (observing other children and making comparisons); (2) "Children are different and develop in their own time" (perceiving that their child might be different, but not necessarily delayed); (3) "It\'s not that I don\'t trust the doctor" (relying on social networks rather than pediatricians to inform the help-seeking pathway); (4) "I got so much going on" (difficulty prioritizing early intervention [EI] because of competing stressors); and (5) limited and conflicting information (delaying or forgoing EI because of limited or conflicting information). Differences between African American and Hispanic mothers are also described.CONCLUSIONS: Understanding maternal health beliefs and expectations regarding DD and EI, acknowledging the influence of social networks on help-seeking, and addressing social and financial stressors are critical to ensuring that children with DD are identified and supported at an early age. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#African Americans#Child Development#Child, Preschool#Culture#Early Medical Intervention#Female#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Hispanic Americans#Humans#Infant#Male#Mother-Child Relations#Poverty#Surveys and Questionnaires#Young Adult'
b'Image scanning microscopy (ISM) doubles the resolution of a conventional confocal microscope for super-resolution imaging. Here, we describe an all-optical ISM design based on rescanning microscopy for two-photon-excited fluorescence and second-harmonic generation that allows straightforward implementation into existing microscopes. The design offers improved sensitivity and high frame rates relative to those of existing systems. We demonstrate its utility using fixed and living specimens as well as collagen hydrogels. labels: #Animals#Cells, Cultured#Drosophila melanogaster#Humans#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Microscopy, Confocal#Microscopy, Fluorescence#Signal-To-Noise Ratio'
b'Rotaviruses C (RVCs) have been detected in pigs, humans, cows, ferrets and dogs. Despite their zoonotic impact and pathogenicity, the genetic characterization of RVCs is incomplete, unlike rotaviruses A (RVAs), whose genetics are well studied. Several studies reported partial and complete genomic sequences for multiple porcine and canine RVCs. We aimed to establish a complete genome-based genotyping system for RVCs, by analysing complete genome data from 22 porcine RVCs identified in Japan from 2002 to 2010, along with those from multiple human, bovine, porcine, canine and ferret RVCs reported in several previous studies. Comparative sequence analyses among RVCs from various host species demonstrated that porcine RVCs had a high level of genetic diversity. In addition, phylogenetic analyses of all 11 RNA segments indicated that porcine RVCs could be classified into multiple genotypes. Notably, the VP4 dendrogram divided bovine RVCs into multiple genotypes. Consequently, the provisional genotype classification for RVCs from terrestrial mammals revealed the existence of genotypes 18G, 21P, 13I, 4R, 6C, 6M, 9A, 8N, 6T, 5E and 4H for the genes VP7, VP4, VP6, VP1, VP2, VP3, NSP1, NSP2, NSP3, NSP4 and NSP5, respectively, based on the cut-off values as defined by the Rotavirus Classification Working Group. The system established in this study deepens our understanding of RVC evolution and facilitates the discovery of genetic events (gene reassortment and interspecies transmission) among RVCs. labels: #Animals#Genetic Variation#Genome, Viral#Genotype#Genotyping Techniques#Humans#Mammals#Rotavirus#Rotavirus Infections#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b'School nurses address mental health issues of youth on a daily basis. These mental health issues include substance abuse, anxiety, depression, and even suicidal ideation. Mental health first aid is a process that seeks to help medical professionals and laypeople recognize and address someone that is having a mental health or substance abuse crisis. This article will describe an experience with a student having suicidal ideations and how the mental health action plan was used. labels: #Child#First Aid#Humans#Mental Disorders#Nursing Process#School Health Services#School Nursing#Students'
b"Care coordination is an important part of school nurses' responsibilities, but coordinating that care for students in schools with chronic conditions is more complex than what we learned in nursing school. This article is the second in a series of articles for NASN School Nurse that will delve into how to apply evidence-based practice (EBP) to school nursing. The article focuses on the first step of EBP: asking the question. As the series progresses, we encourage you to apply the steps to a situation in your setting or even use the series to increase discussions at nursing staff meetings so all can benefit. labels: #Child#Chronic Disease#Disabled Children#Evidence-Based Nursing#Humans#Patient Care Planning#School Health Services#School Nursing#Students"
b'Adolescent depression is a silent epidemic in this country. Untreated depression has detrimental effects on physical health, psychosocial well-being, and academic productivity. It is important for school nurses to be able to recognize depression and refer students promptly for treatment. This article and its associated learning module will provide school nurses with updated information on adolescent depression, discuss barriers in depression screening, use of the PHQ-9 (Patient Health Questionaire-9 Item) as an evidence-based depression screening tool in the educational setting, and the important role of school nurses in depression screening. It is anticipated that by increasing awareness and knowledge about adolescent depression and providing training in the use of an evidence-based screening tool, school nurses will have greater confidence in identifying and referring students in need. (A free online depression screening education module developed by the lead author is available at https://sites.google.com/view/depressionscreeningtraining .). labels: #Adolescent#Adolescent Health Services#Child#Depressive Disorder#Humans#Nursing Process#Referral and Consultation#School Health Services#School Nursing#Students'
b'Step Up&Be Counted! (Step Up!) is an innovative project to collect nationally standardized data from the daily documentation of school nurses throughout the United States. Step Up! provides the standardization needed to promote an "apples to apples" analysis of school health resources, interventions, and outcomes across the United States. While some states have collected data for decades and have an effective infrastructure in place, other states are new to data collection and are creating processes to support data collection. Designated State Data Champions have volunteered to collect aggregated de-identified data from school districts throughout their state. The following is a discussion of some of the data collection innovations shared by Designated State Data Champions at the 2017 NASN Annual Conference. labels: #Databases, Factual#Datasets as Topic#Humans#Leadership#Nurse\'s Role#School Health Services#School Nursing#United States'
b'BACKGROUND: Highly cross-linked polyethylene (XLPE) was developed to address the problem of wear and osteolysis associated with metal-on-conventional ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) bearing surfaces. The purpose of this study was to compare in vivo wear rates and clinical and radiographic outcomes between XLPE and UHMWPE in a prospective double-blinded randomized controlled trial with a minimum of 10 years of follow-up.METHODS: We randomized 122 patients to receive either a conventional UHMWPE liner (Enduron; DePuy) or an XLPE liner (Marathon; DePuy). Ninety-one patients were assessed clinically and radiographically at a minimum of 10 years (range, 10.08 to 12.17 years). Oxford Hip Scores and Short Form-12 Health Survey scores were collected. The radiographs were analyzed for osteolysis and for 2-dimensional (2-D), 3-dimensional (3-D), and volumetric wear using validated software.RESULTS: All 122 patients were accounted for at the 10-year follow-up evaluation. Twelve patients had undergone revision surgery, 21 patients had died (1 of whom had previously undergone revision surgery), and 2 patients were unable to return for follow-up, leaving 91 patients available for clinical and radiographic evaluation. At a minimum of 10 years, 3-D wear rates were significantly lower (p<0.001) in the XLPE group (mean, 0.03 mm/yr) than in the conventional UHMWPE group (mean, 0.27 mm/yr). The prevalence of osteolysis was also significantly lower in the XLPE group (38% versus 8%, p<0.005), as was the revision rate (14.6% versus 1.9%, p = 0.012), with 10 of the 12 revisions being in the Enduron group. There was no significant difference between the clinical scores of the 2 groups.CONCLUSIONS: XLPE liners have significantly reduced wear and are associated with a greater implant survival rate at 10 years compared with conventional UHMWPE liners.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level I. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Cross-Linking Reagents#Double-Blind Method#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Hip Prosthesis#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Osteoarthritis, Hip#Polyethylene#Prospective Studies#Prosthesis Design#Prosthesis Failure#Reoperation#Treatment Outcome'
b'In 2005, we conducted a prospective randomized controlled trial that demonstrated that, compared with a standard incision, a minimal incision technique did not improve early outcomes of total hip arthroplasty (THA). There was concern that reduced exposure could compromise long-term outcome. For the current study, all surviving participants were invited to return for 10-year radiographic and clinical evaluation. Outcome scores were available for 152 patients (69.4%) from the original cohort, and radiographs were available for 126 (57.5%). The median duration of follow-up was 124 months. We did not find significant differences in functional status or radiographic outcome between the minimal and standard incision groups at 10 years. The 10-year implant survival rate was 99.1% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 97.3% to 100%) in the standard incision group and 97.9% (95% CI = 95.1% to 100%) in the minimal incision group (p = 0.57). We concluded that minimal incision THA performed by a high-volume surgeon does not compromise long-term results but offers no benefit over a standard incision.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level I. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Aged#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures#Osteoarthritis, Hip#Prospective Studies#Radiography#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: There has been serious concern regarding the longevity and durability of outcomes of reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (RTSA) in younger patients. It was the purpose of this study to analyze long-term outcomes and complications of RTSA for irreparable rotator cuff tears in patients younger than 60 years.METHODS: Twenty patients (23 shoulders) with a mean age of 57 years (range, 47 to 59 years) were evaluated at a mean of 11.7 years (range, 8 to 19 years) after RTSA. Fifteen shoulders (65%) had undergone previous non-arthroplasty surgery. Longitudinal clinical and radiographic outcomes were assessed.RESULTS: At the time of final follow-up, the mean absolute and relative preoperative Constant score (CS) (and standard deviation) had improved from 24 \xc2\xb1 9 to 59 \xc2\xb1 19 points (p<0.001) and from 29% \xc2\xb1 11% to 69% \xc2\xb1 21% (p<0.001), respectively. The mean Subjective Shoulder Value (SSV) had increased from 20% \xc2\xb1 13% to 71% \xc2\xb1 27% (p<0.001). There were also significant improvements in the mean active anterior elevation (from 64\xc2\xb0 to 117\xc2\xb0), active abduction (from 58\xc2\xb0 to 111\xc2\xb0), pain scores, and strength (all p \xe2\x89\xa4 0.001). Clinical outcomes did not significantly deteriorate beyond 10 years and the functional results of patients with previous surgical procedures were not significantly inferior to the results of those with primary RTSA. The grade of, and number of patients with, radiographically apparent notching increased over time; the mean relative CS was lower in patients in whom the notching was grade 2 or higher (57%) than it was in those with no or grade-1 notching (81%; p = 0.006). Nine (39%) had \xe2\x89\xa51 complication, with 2 failed RTSAs (9%).CONCLUSIONS: RTSA in patients younger than 60 years leads to substantial subjective and functional improvement without clinical deterioration beyond 10 years. It is associated with a substantial complication rate, and complications compromise ultimate subjective and objective outcomes.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Age Factors#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Shoulder#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Radiography#Recovery of Function#Retrospective Studies#Rotator Cuff Injuries#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: The optimal technique for arthroscopic rotator cuff repair is controversial, and both single and double-row techniques are commonly used. In the current era of increasing costs, health-care delivery models are focusing on the value of care. In this study, we compared the cost-effectiveness of single-row and double-row reconstructions in patients undergoing arthroscopic rotator cuff repair.METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed from the perspective of a publicly funded health-care system. Health-care costs, probabilities, and utility values were derived from the published literature. Efficacy data were obtained from a previous randomized controlled trial comparing the effect of single-row (n = 48) or double-row (n = 42) reconstruction among 90 surgical patients. Unit cost data were obtained from a hospital database and the Ontario Schedule of Benefits and Fees. Results are presented as an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. All costs are presented in 2015 Canadian dollars. A series of 1-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.RESULTS: Double-row fixation was more costly ($2,134.41 compared with $1,654.76) but was more effective than the single-row method (4.073 compared with 4.055 QALYs). An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was estimated to be $26,666.75 per QALY gained for double-row relative to single-row fixation. A subgroup analysis demonstrated that patients with larger rotator cuff tears (\xe2\x89\xa53 cm) had a lower ICER, suggesting that double-row fixation may be more cost-effective for larger tears.CONCLUSIONS: Based on the willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 per QALY gained, double-row fixation was found to be more cost-effective than single-row. Furthermore, a double-row reconstruction was found to be more economically attractive for larger rotator cuff tears (\xe2\x89\xa53 cm).LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and Decision Analysis Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Arthroscopy#Canada#Clinical Decision-Making#Cost-Benefit Analysis#Decision Trees#Health Care Costs#Humans#Quality-Adjusted Life Years#Rotator Cuff Injuries#Suture Techniques#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite recent advances, infection remains the most common etiology of arthroplasty failure. Recent work suggests that 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25D) deficiency correlates with the frequency of periprosthetic joint infection (PJI). We endeavored to examine whether 25D3 deficiency leads to increased bacterial burden in vivo in an established mouse model of PJI and, if so, whether this effect can be reversed by preoperative 25D3 supplementation.METHODS: Mice (lys-EGFP) possessing fluorescent neutrophils were fed a vitamin D3-sufficient (n = 20) or deficient (n = 40) diet for 6 weeks. A group of 25D3-deficient mice (n = 20) were "rescued" with 1 intraperitoneal dose of 25D3 at 3 days before surgery. A stainless steel implant was inserted into the knee joint and the joint space was inoculated with bioluminescent Staphylococcus aureus (1 \xc3\x97 10 colony forming units [CFUs]). In vivo imaging was used to monitor bacterial burden and neutrophil infiltration. Blood was drawn to confirm 25D3 levels 3 days before surgery and on postoperative days (PODs) 0 and 14. Mice were killed at POD 21, and CFUs were quantified after culture. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) and \xce\xb2-N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAG) were assayed to look at neutrophil infiltration and activated tissue macrophage recruitment, respectively.RESULTS: Serum values confirmed 25D3 deficiency and repletion of the 25D3-rescued group. Bacterial bioluminescence and neutrophil fluorescence were significantly greater (p<0.05) in the 25D3-deficient group. CFU counts from the joint tissue and implant were also significantly greater in this group (p<0.05). Rescue treatment significantly decreased bacterial burden and neutrophil infiltration (p<0.05). Compared with the 25D3-sufficient and 25D3-rescued groups, MPO activity was higher (p<0.02) and NAG activity was lower (p<0.03) in the 25D3-deficient group.CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated in vivo in a mouse model of PJI that (1) 25D3 deficiency results in increased bacterial burden and neutrophil infiltration, and (2) this effect can be reversed with preoperative repletion of 25D3.CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Considering that>65% of patients undergoing arthroplasty have insufficient or low levels of total 25D and that 25D levels can be replenished with ease using a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved, oral 25D3 product, 25D deficiency may be an important modifiable risk factor in humans undergoing joint replacement. labels: #Animals#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Knee#Bacterial Load#Biomarkers#Dietary Supplements#Drug Administration Schedule#Injections, Intraperitoneal#Knee Prosthesis#Male#Mice#Neutrophil Infiltration#Preoperative Care#Prosthesis-Related Infections#Random Allocation#Risk Factors#Staphylococcal Infections#Vitamin D#Vitamin D Deficiency#Vitamins'
b"BACKGROUND: Postoperative pelvic radiographs are routinely used to assess acetabular fracture reduction. We compared radiographs and computed tomography (CT) with regard to their ability to detect residual fracture displacement. We also determined the association between the quality of reduction as assessed on CT and hip survivorship and identified risk factors for conversion to total hip arthroplasty (THA).METHODS: Patients were included in the study who had undergone acetabular fracture fixation between 1992 and 2012, who were followed for \xe2\x89\xa52 years (or until early THA), and for whom radiographs and a pelvic CT scan were available. Residual displacement was measured on postoperative radiographs and CT and graded according to Matta's criteria (0 to 1 mm indicating anatomic reduction; 2 to 3 mm, imperfect reduction; and>3 mm, poor reduction) by observers who were blinded to patient outcome. Kaplan-Meier survivorship curves were plotted and log-rank tests were used to assess statistical differences in survivorship curves between adequate (anatomic or imperfect) and inadequate reductions on CT. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis was used to identify risk factors for conversion to THA. Two hundred and eleven patients were included. At mean of 9.0 years (standard deviation [SD], 5.6; median, 7.9; range, 0.5 to 23.3 years) postoperatively, 161 patients (76%) had retained their native hip.RESULTS: Compared with radiographs, CT showed worse reduction in 124 hips (59%), the same reduction in 79 (37%), and better reduction in 8 (4%). Of the 99 patients graded as having adequate reduction on CT, 10% underwent conversion to THA in comparison with 36% of those with inadequate reduction, and there was a significant difference between the survivorship curves (p<0.001). Mean hip survivorship was shorter in patients \xe2\x89\xa550 years of age (p<0.001) and in those with an inadequate reduction on CT (p<0.001). Independent risk factors for conversion to THA were age (hazard ratio [HR] = 4.46, 95% confidence interval [CI]= 2.07 to 9.62; p<0.001), inadequate reduction (HR = 3.57, 95% CI = 1.71 to 7.45; p = 0.001), and posterior wall involvement (HR = 1.81, 95% CI = 1.00 to 3.26; p = 0.049). Sex, fracture type (elementary versus associated), and year of surgery did not influence hip survivorship.CONCLUSIONS: CT is superior to radiographs for detecting residual displacement after acetabular fracture fixation. Hip survivorship is greater in patients with adequate (anatomic or imperfect) reduction on CT. Along with older age and posterior wall involvement, an inadequate reduction on CT is a risk factor for conversion to THA.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Acetabulum#Adolescent#Adult#Aftercare#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arthroplasty, Replacement, Hip#Female#Follow-Up Studies#Fracture Fixation#Fractures, Bone#Humans#Kaplan-Meier Estimate#Male#Middle Aged#Postoperative Care#Proportional Hazards Models#Reoperation#Retrospective Studies#Single-Blind Method#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Treatment Outcome#Young Adult"
b'BACKGROUND: Surgery for spinal metastases is challenging and carries a high risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality. Procedures with such characteristics often exhibit a volume-outcome relationship. This has not been previously characterized for spinal metastasis surgery to our knowledge.METHODS: The Florida State Inpatient Database (2011 through 2014) was queried to identify patients who had undergone surgery for spinal metastases. Surgeon and hospital surgical volumes were compared with 90-day complication and readmission rates to develop procedural cut-points used to define high and low-volume providers. These were included in a multivariable logistic regression analysis that was adjusted for confounders. A separate analysis was performed to evaluate the effect of race/ethnicity and insurance status on the likelihood of receiving care from a high-volume surgeon or hospital.RESULTS: This study included 3,135 patients treated by 1,488 surgeons at 162 hospitals. Patients treated at low-volume hospitals had significantly higher odds of having postoperative complications (odds ratio [OR] = 1.47; 95% confidence interval [CI]= 1.13, 1.91) and readmissions (OR = 1.36; 95% CI = 1.06, 1.75). Those treated by low-volume surgeons also demonstrated a higher likelihood of complications (OR = 1.40; 95% CI = 1.16, 1.69) and readmissions (OR = 1.38; 95% CI = 1.17, 1.62). The likelihood of receiving intervention from a high-volume surgeon was significantly lower for African Americans (OR = 0.55; 95% CI = 0.41, 0.75) and Hispanics (OR = 0.60; 95% CI = 0.44, 0.83). The odds of being treated at a high-volume hospital were also significantly lower for African Americans (OR = 0.58; 95% CI = 0.40, 0.84) and Hispanics (OR = 0.28; 95% CI = 0.20, 0.38).CONCLUSIONS: There is a clear relationship between the volume and outcomes of surgical treatment of spinal metastases, with high-volume providers demonstrating reduced complication and readmission rates. Racial and ethnic minorities appear to experience health-care segregation when it comes to surgical care for spinal metastases. Regionalization of care for these conditions may help improve access to high-volume providers and mitigate disparities in care.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Adult#Aged#Databases, Factual#Female#Florida#Hospitals, High-Volume#Hospitals, Low-Volume#Humans#Logistic Models#Lymphoma#Male#Middle Aged#Multiple Myeloma#Outcome Assessment (Health Care)#Patient Readmission#Postoperative Complications#Retrospective Studies#Risk Factors#Spinal Neoplasms'
b'BACKGROUND: The etiology of hip instability in Down syndrome is not completely understood. We investigated the morphology of the acetabulum and femur in patients with Down syndrome and compared measurements of the hips with those of matched controls.METHODS: Computed tomography (CT) images of the pelvis of 42 patients with Down syndrome and hip symptoms were compared with those of 42 age and sex-matched subjects without Down syndrome or history of hip disease who had undergone CT for abdominal pain. Each of the cohorts had 23 male and 19 female subjects. The mean age (and standard deviation) in each cohort was 11.3 \xc2\xb1 5.3 years. The lateral center-edge angle (LCEA), acetabular inclination angle (IA), acetabular depth-width ratio (ADR), acetabular version, and anterior and posterior acetabular sector angles (AASA and PASA) were compared. The neck-shaft angle and femoral version were measured in the patients with Down syndrome only. The hips of the patients with Down syndrome were further categorized as stable (n = 21) or unstable (n = 63) for secondary analysis.RESULTS: The hips in the Down syndrome group had a smaller LCEA (mean, 10.8\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 12.6\xc2\xb0 compared with 25.6\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 4.6\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001), a larger IA (mean, 17.4\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 10.3\xc2\xb0 compared with 10.9\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 4.8\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001), a lower ADR (mean, 231.9 \xc2\xb1 56.2 compared with 306.8 \xc2\xb1 31.0; p<0.0001), a more retroverted acetabulum (mean acetabular version as measured at the level of the centers of the femoral heads [AVC], 7.8\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 5.1\xc2\xb0 compared with 14.0\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 4.5\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001), a smaller AASA (mean, 55.0\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 9.9\xc2\xb0 compared with 59.7\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 7.8\xc2\xb0; p = 0.005), and a smaller PASA (mean, 67.1\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 10.4\xc2\xb0 compared with 85.2\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 6.8\xc2\xb0; p<0.0001). Within the Down syndrome cohort, the unstable hips showed greater femoral anteversion (mean, 32.7\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 14.6\xc2\xb0 compared with 23.6\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 10.6\xc2\xb0; p = 0.002) and worse global acetabular insufficiency compared with the stable hips. No differences between the unstable and stable hips were found with respect to acetabular version (mean AVC, 7.8\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 5.5\xc2\xb0 compared with 7.6\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 3.8\xc2\xb0; p = 0.93) and the neck-shaft angle (mean, 133.7\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 6.7\xc2\xb0 compared with 133.2\xc2\xb0 \xc2\xb1 6.4\xc2\xb0; p = 0.81).CONCLUSIONS: Patients with Down syndrome and hip-related symptoms had more retroverted and shallower acetabula with globally reduced coverage of the femoral head compared with age and sex-matched subjects. Hip instability among those with Down syndrome was associated with worse global acetabular insufficiency and increased femoral anteversion, but not with more severe acetabular retroversion. No difference in the mean femoral neck-shaft angle was observed between the stable and unstable hips in the Down syndrome cohort.LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic Level III. See Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence. labels: #Acetabulum#Adolescent#Adult#Bone Anteversion#Bone Retroversion#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Down Syndrome#Female#Femur Head#Hip Joint#Humans#Joint Instability#Male#Retrospective Studies#Tomography, X-Ray Computed#Young Adult'
b'Alphaviruses, such as chikungunya virus, and flaviviruses, such as dengue virus, are (re)-emerging arboviruses that are endemic in tropical environments. In Africa, arbovirus infections are often undiagnosed and unreported, with febrile illnesses often assumed to be malaria. This cross-sectional study aimed to characterize the seroprevalence of alphaviruses and flaviviruses among children (ages 5-14, n = 250) and adults (ages 15 \xe2\x89\xa5 75, n = 250) in western Kenya. Risk factors for seropositivity were explored using Lasso regression. Overall, 67% of participants showed alphavirus seropositivity (CI95 63%-70%), and 1.6% of participants showed flavivirus seropositivity (CI95 0.7%-3%). Children aged 10-14 were more likely to be seropositive to an alphavirus than adults (p<0.001), suggesting a recent transmission period. Alphavirus and flavivirus seropositivity was detected in the youngest participants (age 5-9), providing evidence of inter-epidemic transmission. Demographic variables that were significantly different amongst those with previous infection versus those without infection included age, education level, and occupation. Behavioral and environmental variables significantly different amongst those in with previous infection to those without infection included taking animals for grazing, fishing, and recent village flooding. Experience of recent fever was also found to be a significant indicator of infection (p = 0.027). These results confirm alphavirus and flavivirus exposure in western Kenya, while illustrating significantly higher alphavirus transmission compared to previous studies. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Alphavirus#Alphavirus Infections#Antibodies, Viral#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Flavivirus#Flavivirus Infections#Humans#Kenya#Male#Middle Aged#Risk Factors#Rural Population#Serologic Tests#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Despite recent reductions in prevalence, China still faces a substantial tuberculosis (TB) burden, with future progress dependent on the ability of rural providers to appropriately detect and refer TB patients for further care. This study (a) provides a baseline assessment of the ability of rural providers to correctly manage presumptive TB cases; (b) measures the gap between provider knowledge and practice and; (c) evaluates how ongoing reforms of China\'s health system-characterized by a movement toward "integrated care" and promotion of initial contact with grassroots providers-will affect the care of TB patients.METHODS/FINDINGS: Unannounced standardized patients (SPs) presenting with classic pulmonary TB symptoms were deployed in 3 provinces of China in July 2015. The SPs successfully completed 274 interactions across all 3 tiers of China\'s rural health system, interacting with providers in 46 village clinics, 207 township health centers, and 21 county hospitals. Interactions between providers and standardized patients were assessed against international and national standards of TB care. Using a lenient definition of correct management as at least a referral, chest X-ray or sputum test, 41% (111 of 274) SPs were correctly managed. Although there were no cases of empirical anti-TB treatment, antibiotics unrelated to the treatment of TB were prescribed in 168 of 274 interactions or 61.3% (95% CI: 55%-67%). Correct management proportions significantly higher at county hospitals compared to township health centers (OR 0.06, 95% CI: 0.01-0.25, p<0.001) and village clinics (OR 0.02, 95% CI: 0.0-0.17, p<0.001). Correct management in tests of knowledge administered to the same 274 physicians for the same case was 45 percentage points (95% CI: 37%-53%) higher with 24 percentage points (95% CI: -33% to -15%) fewer antibiotic prescriptions. Relative to the current system, where patients can choose to bypass any level of care, simulations suggest that a system of managed referral with gatekeeping at the level of village clinics would reduce proportions of correct management from 41% to 16%, while gatekeeping at the level of the township hospital would retain correct management close to current levels at 37%. The main limitations of the study are 2-fold. First, we evaluate the management of a one-time new patient presenting with presumptive TB, which may not reflect how providers manage repeat patients or more complicated TB presentations. Second, simulations under alternate policies require behavioral and statistical assumptions that should be addressed in future applications of this method.CONCLUSIONS: There were significant quality deficits among village clinics and township health centers in the management of a classic case of presumptive TB, with higher proportions of correct case management in county hospitals. Poor clinical performance does not arise only from a lack of knowledge, a phenomenon known as the "know-do" gap. Given significant deficits in quality of care, reforms encouraging first contact with lower tiers of the health system can improve efficiency only with concomitant improvements in appropriate management of presumptive TB patients in village clinics and township health centers. labels: #China#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Hospitals#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Quality of Health Care#Referral and Consultation#Rural Health#Rural Population#Tuberculosis'
b'BACKGROUND: Transpulmonary thermodilution (TPTD) is used to derive cardiac output CO, global end-diastolic volume GEDV and extravascular lung water EVLW. To facilitate interpretation of these data, several ratios have been developed, including pulmonary vascular permeability index (defined as EVLW/(0.25*GEDV)) and global ejection fraction ((4*stroke volume)/GEDV). PVPI and GEF have been associated to the aetiology of pulmonary oedema and systolic cardiac function, respectively. Several studies demonstrated that the use of femoral venous access results in a marked overestimation of GEDV. This also falsely reduces PVPI and GEF. One of these studies suggested a correction formula for femoral venous access that markedly reduced the bias for GEDV. Consequently, the last PiCCO-algorithm requires information about the CVC, and correction for femoral access has been shown. However, two recent studies demonstrated inconsistencies of the last PiCCO algorithm using incorrected GEDV for PVPI, but corrected GEDV for GEF. Nevertheless, these studies were based on mathematical analyses of data displayed in a total of 15 patients equipped with only a femoral, but not with a jugular CVC. Therefore, this study compared PVPI_fem and GEF_fem derived from femoral TPTD to values derived from jugular indicator injection in 25 patients with both jugular and femoral CVCs.METHODS: 54 datasets in 25 patients were recorded. Each dataset consisted of three triplicate TPTDs using the jugular venous access as the gold standard and the femoral access with (PVPI_fem_cor) and without (PVPI_fem_uncor) information about the femoral indicator injection to evaluate, if correction for femoral GEDV pertains to PVPI_fem and GEF_fem.RESULTS: PVPI_fem_uncor was significantly lower than PVPI_jug (1.48\xc2\xb10.47 vs. 1.84\xc2\xb10.53; p<0.001). Similarly, PVPI_fem_cor was significantly lower than PVPI_jug (1.49\xc2\xb10.46 vs. 1.84\xc2\xb10.53; p<0.001). This is explained by the finding that PVPI_fem_uncor was not different to PVPI_fem_cor (1.48\xc2\xb10.47 vs. 1.49\xc2\xb10.46; n.s.). This clearly suggests that correction for femoral CVC does not pertain to PVPI. GEF_fem_uncor was significantly lower than GEF_jug (20.6\xc2\xb15.1% vs. 25.0\xc2\xb16.1%; p<0.001). By contrast, GEF_fem_cor was not different to GEF_jug (25.6\xc2\xb15.8% vs. 25.0\xc2\xb16.1%; n.s.). Furthermore, GEF_fem_cor was significantly higher than GEF_fem_uncor (25.6\xc2\xb15.8% vs. 20.6\xc2\xb15.1%; p<0.001). This finding emphasizes that an appropriate correction for femoral CVC is applied to GEF_fem_cor. The extent of the correction (25.5/20.6; 124%) for GEF and the relation of PVPI_jug/PVPI_fem_uncor (1.84/1.48; 124%) are in the same range as the ratio of GEDVI_fem_uncor/GEDVI_fem_cor (1056ml/m2/821mL/m2; 129%). This further emphasizes that GEF, but not PVPI is corrected in case of femoral indicator injection.CONCLUSIONS: Femoral indicator injection for TPTD results in significantly lower values for PVPI and GEF. While the last PiCCO algorithm appropriately corrects GEF, the correction is not applied to PVPI. Therefore, GEF-values can be used in case of femoral CVC, but PVPI-values are substantially underestimated. labels: #Aged#Capillary Permeability#Cardiac Output#Catheterization, Central Venous#Contrast Media#Extravascular Lung Water#Female#Femoral Vein#Heart#Humans#Injections, Intravenous#Intensive Care Units#Jugular Veins#Liver Cirrhosis#Lung#Middle Aged#Monitoring, Physiologic#Prospective Studies#Pulmonary Edema#Respiratory Distress Syndrome, Adult#Sepsis#Stroke Volume#Thermodilution'
b"Based on cohort data obtained from 13,085 college freshmen's (2005 to 2011) SCL-90 (the Symptom Check-List-90) reports and their subsequent 4-year psychological counseling help-seeking records, this study examined the association between college students' mental health problems and help-seeking behaviors across four college years. Female students' mental health problems and help-seeking behaviors increased from the 2005 to the 2011 cohorts and no changes emerged for male students across cohorts. Overall, male students reported higher levels of mental health problems than did female students in the first college year, whereas female students reported more help-seeking behaviors than did male students in the following four college years. College students' mental health problems was associated positively with help-seeking behaviors. College students were more likely to seek help from the college psychological counselling center when they experienced relatively few or quite a lot of mental health issues (i.e., an inversed U shape). Implications for future studies and practices are discussed. labels: #Adolescent#China#Cohort Studies#Counseling#Female#Help-Seeking Behavior#Humans#Male#Mental Disorders#Mental Health#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Psychotherapy#Students#Surveys and Questionnaires#Universities#Young Adult"
b'The majority of patients with myasthenia gravis (MG), an organ-specific autoimmune disease, harbor autoantibodies that attack the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR-Abs) at the neuromuscular junction of skeletal muscles, resulting in muscle weakness. Single cell manipulation technologies coupled with genetic engineering are very powerful tools to examine T cell and B cell repertoires and the dynamics of adaptive immunity. These tools have been utilized to develop mAbs in parallel with hybridomas, phage display technologies and B-cell immortalization. By applying a single cell technology and novel high-throughput cell-based binding assays, we identified peripheral B cells that produce pathogenic nAChR-Abs in patients with MG. Although anti-nAChR antibodies produced by individual peripheral B cells generally exhibited low binding affinity for the \xce\xb1-subunit of the nAChR and great sequence diversity, a small fraction of these antibodies bound with high affinity to native-structured nAChRs on cell surfaces. B12L, one such Ab isolated here, competed with a rat Ab (mAb35) for binding to the human nAChR and thus considered to recognize the main immunogenic region (MIR). By evaluating the Ab in in vitro cell-based assays and an in vivo rat passive transfer model, B12L was found to act as a pathogenic Ab in rodents and presumably in humans.These findings suggest that B cells in peripheral blood may impact MG pathogenicity. Our methodology can be applied not only to validate pathogenic Abs as molecular target of MG treatment, but also to discover and analyze Ab production systems in other human diseases. labels: #Adoptive Transfer#Animals#Antibodies, Monoclonal#Autoantibodies#B-Lymphocytes#Flow Cytometry#Humans#Hybridomas#Myasthenia Gravis#Primary Cell Culture#Protein Subunits#Rats#Receptors, Nicotinic#Single-Cell Analysis'
b"BACKGROUND: For the first time, differential attraction of pathogen vectors to vertebrate animals is investigated for novel repellents which when applied to preferred host animals turn them into non-hosts thereby providing a new paradigm for innovative vector control. For effectively controlling tsetse flies (Glossina spp.), vectors of African trypanosomosis, causing nagana, repellents more powerful than plant derived, from a non-host animal the waterbuck, Kobus ellipsiprymnus defassa, have recently been identified. Here we investigate these repellents in the field to protect cattle from nagana by making cattle as unattractive as the buck.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To dispense the waterbuck repellents comprising guaiacol, geranylacetone, pentanoic acid and \xce\xb4-octalactone, (patent application) we developed an innovative collar-mounted release system for individual cattle. We tested protecting cattle, under natural tsetse challenge, from tsetse transmitted nagana in a large field trial comprising 1,100 cattle with repellent collars in Kenya for 24 months. The collars provided substantial protection to livestock from trypanosome infection by reducing disease levels>80%. Protected cattle were healthier, showed significantly reduced disease levels, higher packed cell volume and significantly increased weight. Collars>60% reduced trypanocide use, 72.7% increase in ownership of oxen per household and enhanced traction power (protected animals ploughed 66% more land than unprotected). Land under cultivation increased by 73.4%. Increase in traction power of protected animals reduced by 69.1% acres tilled by hand per household per ploughing season. Improved food security and household income from very high acceptance of collars (99%) motivated the farmers to form a registered community based organization promoting collars for integrated tsetse control and their commercialization.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Clear demonstration that repellents from un-preferred hosts prevent contact between host and vector, thereby preventing disease transmission: a new paradigm for vector control. Evidence that deploying water buck repellents converts cattle into non-hosts for tsetse flies-'cows in waterbuck clothing'. labels: #Animal Husbandry#Animals#Antelopes#Cattle#Cattle Diseases#Insect Repellents#Insect Vectors#Kenya#Odorants#Trypanosomiasis, African#Tsetse Flies"
b'BACKGROUND: Intensive blood pressure (BP) treatment can avert cardiovascular disease (CVD) events but can cause some serious adverse events. We sought to develop and validate risk models for predicting absolute risk difference (increased risk or decreased risk) for CVD events and serious adverse events from intensive BP therapy. A secondary aim was to test if the statistical method of elastic net regularization would improve the estimation of risk models for predicting absolute risk difference, as compared to a traditional backwards variable selection approach.METHODS AND FINDINGS: Cox models were derived from SPRINT trial data and validated on ACCORD-BP trial data to estimate risk of CVD events and serious adverse events; the models included terms for intensive BP treatment and heterogeneous response to intensive treatment. The Cox models were then used to estimate the absolute reduction in probability of CVD events (benefit) and absolute increase in probability of serious adverse events (harm) for each individual from intensive treatment. We compared the method of elastic net regularization, which uses repeated internal cross-validation to select variables and estimate coefficients in the presence of collinearity, to a traditional backwards variable selection approach. Data from 9,069 SPRINT participants with complete data on covariates were utilized for model development, and data from 4,498 ACCORD-BP participants with complete data were utilized for model validation. Participants were exposed to intensive (goal systolic pressure<120 mm Hg) versus standard (<140 mm Hg) treatment. Two composite primary outcome measures were evaluated: (i) CVD events/deaths (myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome, stroke, congestive heart failure, or CVD death), and (ii) serious adverse events (hypotension, syncope, electrolyte abnormalities, bradycardia, or acute kidney injury/failure). The model for CVD chosen through elastic net regularization included interaction terms suggesting that older age, black race, higher diastolic BP, and higher lipids were associated with greater CVD risk reduction benefits from intensive treatment, while current smoking was associated with fewer benefits. The model for serious adverse events chosen through elastic net regularization suggested that male sex, current smoking, statin use, elevated creatinine, and higher lipids were associated with greater risk of serious adverse events from intensive treatment. SPRINT participants in the highest predicted benefit subgroup had a number needed to treat (NNT) of 24 to prevent 1 CVD event/death over 5 years (absolute risk reduction [ARR] = 0.042, 95% CI: 0.018, 0.066; P = 0.001), those in the middle predicted benefit subgroup had a NNT of 76 (ARR = 0.013, 95% CI: -0.0001, 0.026; P = 0.053), and those in the lowest subgroup had no significant risk reduction (ARR = 0.006, 95% CI: -0.007, 0.018; P = 0.71). Those in the highest predicted harm subgroup had a number needed to harm (NNH) of 27 to induce 1 serious adverse event (absolute risk increase [ARI]= 0.038, 95% CI: 0.014, 0.061; P = 0.002), those in the middle predicted harm subgroup had a NNH of 41 (ARI = 0.025, 95% CI: 0.012, 0.038; P<0.001), and those in the lowest subgroup had no significant risk increase (ARI = -0.007, 95% CI: -0.043, 0.030; P = 0.72). In ACCORD-BP, participants in the highest subgroup of predicted benefit had significant absolute CVD risk reduction, but the overall ACCORD-BP participant sample was skewed towards participants with less predicted benefit and more predicted risk than in SPRINT. The models chosen through traditional backwards selection had similar ability to identify absolute risk difference for CVD as the elastic net models, but poorer ability to correctly identify absolute risk difference for serious adverse events. A key limitation of the analysis is the limited sample size of the ACCORD-BP trial, which expanded confidence intervals for ARI among persons with type 2 diabetes. Additionally, it is not possible to mechanistically explain the physiological relationships explaining the heterogeneous treatment effects captured by the models, since the study was an observational secondary data analysis.CONCLUSIONS: We found that predictive models could help identify subgroups of participants in both SPRINT and ACCORD-BP who had lower versus higher ARRs in CVD events/deaths with intensive BP treatment, and participants who had lower versus higher ARIs in serious adverse events. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Antihypertensive Agents#Blood Pressure#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors#Hypertension#Male#Middle Aged#Myocardial Infarction#Proportional Hazards Models#Risk Factors#Stroke#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND: Mitral regurgitation in people without prior cardiac disease is considered a degenerative disease with no established risk factors for its prevention. We aimed to test the hypothesis that elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) across its usual spectrum is associated with higher risk of mitral regurgitation.METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used linked electronic health records from the United Kingdom Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) from 1 January 1990 to 31 December 2015. CPRD covers approximately 7% of the current UK population and is broadly representative of the population by age, sex, and ethnicity. About 5.5 million UK patients with no known cardiovascular or valve disease at baseline were included in this cohort study. We investigated the relationship between blood pressure (BP) and risk of mitral regurgitation using Cox regression models. Our primary exposure variable was SBP and our primary outcome was incident reports of mitral regurgitation, which were identified from hospital discharge reports or primary care records. Of the 5,553,984 patients in the CPRD that met our inclusion criteria, during the 10-year follow-up period, 28,655 (0.52%) were diagnosed with mitral regurgitation and a further 1,262 (0.02%) were diagnosed with mitral stenosis. SBP was continuously related to the risk of mitral regurgitation with no evidence of a nadir down to 115 mmHg (p<0.001). Each 20 mmHg increment in SBP was associated with a 26% higher risk of mitral regurgitation (hazard ratio [HR] 1.26; CI 1.23, 1.29). The observed association was partially mediated by diseases affecting the left ventricle during follow-up (myocardial infarction [MI], ischaemic heart disease [IHD], cardiomyopathy, and heart failure). However, the percentage of excess risk mediated (PERM) by these proximate causes of secondary mitral regurgitation was only 13% (CI 6.1%, 20%), and accounting for them had little effect on the long-term association between SBP and mitral regurgitation (mediator-adjusted HR 1.22; CI 1.20, 1.25; p<0.001). Associations were similar for each 10 mmHg increment in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (p<0.001) or each 15 mmHg increment in pulse pressure (PP) (p<0.001). By contrast, there was no association between SBP and risk of mitral stenosis (HR per 20 mmHg higher SBP 1.03; CI 0.93, 1.14; p = 0.58). These analyses are based on routinely collected data from health records which may be sensitive to measurement errors, and the observed associations may not be generalizable to less severe and subclinical cases of mitral regurgitation.CONCLUSIONS: Long-term exposure to elevated BP across its whole spectrum is associated with an increased risk of primary and secondary mitral regurgitation. These findings suggest that BP control may be of importance in the prevention of mitral regurgitation. labels: #Adult#Aged#Blood Pressure#Cohort Studies#Female#Heart Failure#Humans#Hypertension#Longitudinal Studies#Male#Middle Aged#Mitral Valve Insufficiency#Myocardial Infarction#Risk Factors#Stroke#United Kingdom'
b'The Rnd family of proteins, Rnd1, Rnd2 and Rnd3, are atypical Rho family GTPases, which bind to but do not hydrolyse GTP. They interact with plexins, which are receptors for semaphorins, and are hypothesised to regulate plexin signalling. We recently showed that each Rnd protein has a distinct profile of interaction with three plexins, Plexin-B1, Plexin-B2 and Plexin-B3, in mammalian cells, although it is unclear which region(s) of these plexins contribute to this specificity. Here we characterise the binary interactions of the Rnd proteins with the Rho-binding domain (RBD) of Plexin-B1 and Plexin-B2 using biophysical approaches. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) experiments for each of the Rnd proteins with Plexin-B1-RBD and Plexin-B2-RBD showed similar association constants for all six interactions, although Rnd1 displayed a small preference for Plexin-B1-RBD and Rnd3 for Plexin-B2-RBD. Furthermore, mutagenic analysis of Rnd3 suggested similarities in its interaction with both Plexin-B1-RBD and Plexin-B2-RBD. These results suggest that Rnd proteins do not have a clear-cut specificity for different Plexin-B-RBDs, possibly implying the contribution of additional regions of Plexin-B proteins in conferring functional substrate selection. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Binding Sites#COS Cells#Calorimetry#Cercopithecus aethiops#Cloning, Molecular#Escherichia coli#Gene Expression#Kinetics#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Neural Cell Adhesion Molecules#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Receptors, Cell Surface#Recombinant Proteins#Sequence Alignment#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Substrate Specificity#Thermodynamics#rho GTP-Binding Proteins'
b'Tropical forest fragmentation creates insular biological communities that undergo species loss and changes in community composition over time, due to area- and edge-effects. Woody lianas thrive in degraded and secondary forests, due to their competitive advantage over trees in these habitats. Lianas compete both directly and indirectly with trees, increasing tree mortality and turnover. Despite our growing understanding of liana-tree dynamics, we lack detailed knowledge of the assemblage-level responses of lianas themselves to fragmentation, particularly in evergreen tropical forests. We examine the responses of both sapling and mature liana communities to landscape-scale forest insularization induced by a mega hydroelectric dam in the Brazilian Amazon. Detailed field inventories were conducted on islands created during reservoir filling, and in nearby mainland continuous forest. We assess the relative importance of variables associated with habitat fragmentation such as area, isolation, surrounding forest cover, fire and wind disturbance, on liana community attributes including abundance, basal area, diversity, and composition. We also explore patterns of liana dominance relative to tree saplings and adults \xe2\x89\xa510 cm diameter at breast height. We find that 1) liana community composition remains remarkably similar across mainland continuous forest and islands, regardless of extreme area- and edge- effects and the loss of vertebrate dispersers in the latter; and 2) lianas are increasing in dominance relative to trees in the sapling layer in the most degraded islands, with both the amount of forest cover surrounding islands and fire disturbance history predicting liana dominance. Our data suggest that liana communities persist intact in isolated forests, regardless of extreme area- and edge-effects; while in contrast, tree communities simultaneously show evidence of increased turnover and supressed recruitment. These processes may lead to lianas becoming a dominant component of this dam-induced fragmented landscape in the future, due to their competitive advantage over trees in degraded forest habitats. Additional loss of tree biomass and diversity brought about through competition with lianas, and the concurrent loss of carbon storage, should be accounted for in impact assessments of future dam development. labels: #Biomass#Brazil#Conservation of Natural Resources#Ecosystem#Forests#Humans#Plant Weeds#Power Plants#Rivers#Species Specificity#Trees#Tropical Climate'
b'BACKGROUND: The South-to-North Water Diversion (SNWD) project is designed to channel fresh water from the Yangtze River north to more industrialized parts of China. An important question is whether future climate change and dispersal via the SNWD may synergistically favor a northward expansion of species involved in hosting and transmitting schistosomiasis in China, specifically the intermediate host, Oncomelania hupensis.METHODOLOGY/ PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, climate spaces occupied by the four subspecies of O. hupensis (O. h. hupensis, O. h. robertsoni, O. h. guangxiensis and O. h. tangi) were estimated, and niche conservatism tested among each pair of subspecies. Fine-tuned Maxent (fMaxent) and ensemble models were used to anticipate potential distributions of O. hupensis under future climate change scenarios. We were largely unable to reject the null hypothesis that climatic niches are conserved among the four subspecies, so factors other than climate appear to account for the divergence of O. hupensis populations across mainland China. Both model approaches indicated increased suitability and range expansion in O. h. hupensis in the future; an eastward and northward shift in O. h. robertsioni and O. h. guangxiensis, respectively; and relative distributional stability in O. h. gangi.CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The southern parts of the Central Route of SNWD will coincide with suitable areas for O. h. hupensis in 2050-2060; its suitable areas will also expand northward along the southern parts of the Eastern Route by 2080-2090. Our results call for rigorous monitoring and surveillance of schistosomiasis along the southern Central Route and Eastern Route of the SNWD in a future, warmer China. labels: #Animal Distribution#Animals#China#Climate Change#Risk Factors#Schistosoma japonicum#Schistosomiasis japonica#Snails'
b'Investigating the pleiotropic effects of genetic variants can increase statistical power, provide important information to achieve deep understanding of the complex genetic structures of disease, and offer powerful tools for designing effective treatments with fewer side effects. However, the current multiple phenotype association analysis paradigm lacks breadth (number of phenotypes and genetic variants jointly analyzed at the same time) and depth (hierarchical structure of phenotype and genotypes). A key issue for high dimensional pleiotropic analysis is to effectively extract informative internal representation and features from high dimensional genotype and phenotype data. To explore correlation information of genetic variants, effectively reduce data dimensions, and overcome critical barriers in advancing the development of novel statistical methods and computational algorithms for genetic pleiotropic analysis, we proposed a new statistic method referred to as a quadratically regularized functional CCA (QRFCCA) for association analysis which combines three approaches: (1) quadratically regularized matrix factorization, (2) functional data analysis and (3) canonical correlation analysis (CCA). Large-scale simulations show that the QRFCCA has a much higher power than that of the ten competing statistics while retaining the appropriate type 1 errors. To further evaluate performance, the QRFCCA and ten other statistics are applied to the whole genome sequencing dataset from the TwinsUK study. We identify a total of 79 genes with rare variants and 67 genes with common variants significantly associated with the 46 traits using QRFCCA. The results show that the QRFCCA substantially outperforms the ten other statistics. labels: #Algorithms#Computational Biology#Computer Simulation#Databases, Genetic#Genetic Pleiotropy#Genome-Wide Association Study#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Models, Statistical#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Principal Component Analysis#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b"The present study investigated the parameters of nocturnal sleep that mediate the relationship between morningness-eveningness preference and the sleep architecture of naps in university students. This study had a cross-sectional, descriptive correlational design. The sleep architecture of 52 students invited to take an afternoon nap in the laboratory was recorded. The morningness-eveningness questionnaire (MEQ) was used to evaluate morningness-eveningness preference. An actigraph was used to collect students' nighttime sleep data in the week preceding the study. Polysomnography was used to measure the sleep architecture of the participants' naps. After adjustments for potential factors, although the MEQ did not directly correlate with the percentage of sleep stages in naps, the effects of the MEQ on the percentage of Stage 1 sleep, slow-wave sleep, and rapid eye movement sleep; sleep duration; and sleep efficiency of naps were mediated by the total sleep time in the preceding week. This preliminary study suggests that nap quality was affected by morningness-eveningness preference through the mediation of total nocturnal sleep time. Therefore, future studies should be carefully designed to consider nighttime sleep patterns when analyzing the effects of chronotypes on daytime sleep. labels: #Adolescent#Circadian Rhythm#Cross-Sectional Studies#Female#Humans#Male#Photoperiod#Polysomnography#Sleep Stages#Students#Surveys and Questionnaires#Universities#Wakefulness#Young Adult"
b'INTRODUCTION: Evidence on personality traits change implies it should be studied as an outcome and not only as an explanatory effect. Therefore, we aimed to assess how personality and academic achievement sway each other. Three cohorts of medical students (n = 181) comprised of school leavers and graduates, completed NEO-FFI when admitted (baseline) and later on medical training (follow-up). Previous achievement was measured as mean scores on national school examinations, and academic achievement as medical course average. Causal relations were studied by cross-lagged analysis.RESULTS: Cross-sectional analysis at baseline showed differences between graduates and school leavers on personality, with graduates scoring lower on neuroticism (\xce\xb2 = -12.344, p<0.001), and higher on openness to experience (\xce\xb2 = 5.257, p<0.001), conscientiousness (\xce\xb2 = 2.345, p = 0.004,) and agreeableness (\xce\xb2 = 6.993, p<0.001). Longitudinal analyses indicated that personality traits and achievement tracked over time. Cross-lagged analysis found a positive significant association between academic achievement and neuroticism at baseline (\xce\xb2 = 0.031, p = 0.014) and with being a graduate student (\xce\xb2 = 0.766, p = 0.006). After adjusting, no association was found between previous achievement and personality at follow-up.CONCLUSIONS: Some neuroticism may enhance medical academic achievement. The blurring of the initial differences between graduates and school leavers suggests a reasonable possibility of personality traits change along the medical course. Future research on medical selection processes cannot afford to ignore the influence of the medical school environment on personality traits change. labels: #Adult#Anxiety Disorders#Consciousness#Cooperative Behavior#Cross-Sectional Studies#Educational Status#Female#Humans#Male#Neuroticism#Personality#Personality Inventory#Portugal#Psychometrics#Students, Medical'
b'INTRODUCTION: Acute kidney injury (AKI) increases the risk of death in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) patients. Intravenous thrombolytic therapy (iv. rt-PA) seems to be the most effective treatment for AIS patients. The effects of AKI on iv. rt-PA treated AIS cases is less studied. Our paper addresses this issue.METHODS: 45 consecutive stroke patients treated with iv. rt-PA (median age = 64 years; 29 male) and 59 age and sex matched controls not eligible for iv. rt-PA have been enrolled in our study. Subjects were followed-up until hospital release or death (median follow up time = 12 days).RESULTS: The prevalence of AKI did not differ between iv. rt-PA treated patients and controls (35.5% vs. 33.89%). In both groups, AKI was associated with increased in-hospital mortality: 50.0% vs. 3.4% p<0.0001 (in the rt-PA treated), and 45% vs. 30.7% (in controls). AKI iv. rt-PA treated patients had a significantly higher risk of in hospital mortality as compared to the no-AKI iv. rt-PA treated (HR = 15.2 (95%CI [1.87 to 124.24]; P = 0.011). In a Cox-multivariate model, the presence of AKI after iv. rt-PA remained a significant factor (HR = 8.354; p = 0.041) influencing the in-hospital mortality even after correction for other confounding factors. The independent predictors for AKI were: decreased eGFR baseline and elevated serum levels of uric acid at admission, (the model explained 60.2% of the AKI development).CONCLUSIONS: The risk of AKI was increased in AIS patients. Thrombolysis itself did not increase the risk of AKI. In the iv. rt-PA patients, as compared to non-AKI, those which developed AKI had a higher rate of in-hospital mortality. The baseline eGFR and the serum uric acid at admission were independent predictors for AKI development in the iv. rt-PA treated AIS patients. labels: #Acute Kidney Injury#Administration, Intravenous#Aged#Biomarkers#Brain Ischemia#Female#Fibrinolytic Agents#Glomerular Filtration Rate#Hospital Mortality#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Patient Discharge#Prospective Studies#Stroke#Survival Analysis#Thrombolytic Therapy#Tissue Plasminogen Activator#Treatment Outcome#Uric Acid'
b"Bacteria cells are protected from osmotic and environmental stresses by an exoskeleton-like polymeric structure called peptidoglycan (PG) or murein sacculus. This structure is fundamental for bacteria's viability and thus, the mechanisms underlying cell wall assembly and how it is modulated serve as targets for many of our most successful antibiotics. Therefore, it is now more important than ever to understand the genetics and structural chemistry of the bacterial cell walls in order to find new and effective methods of blocking it for the treatment of disease. In the last decades, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry have been demonstrated to provide the required resolution and sensitivity to characterize the fine chemical structure of PG. However, the large volume of data sets that can be produced by these instruments today are difficult to handle without a proper data analysis workflow. Here, we present PG-metrics, a chemometric based pipeline that allows fast and easy classification of bacteria according to their muropeptide chromatographic profiles and identification of the subjacent PG chemical variability between e.g. bacterial species, growth conditions and, mutant libraries. The pipeline is successfully validated here using PG samples from different bacterial species and mutants in cell wall proteins. The obtained results clearly demonstrated that PG-metrics pipeline is a valuable bioanalytical tool that can lead us to cell wall classification and biomarker discovery. labels: #Algorithms#Animals#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Bacteria#Cell Wall#Chromatography, Liquid#Mass Spectrometry#Microbial Viability#Models, Theoretical#Osmotic Pressure#Peptidoglycan#Principal Component Analysis#Receptors, Pattern Recognition"
b"Social exclusion has many effects on individuals, including the increased need to belong and elevated sensitivity to social information. Using a self-reporting method, and an eye-tracking technique, this study explored people's need to belong and attentional bias towards the socio-emotional information (pictures of positive and negative facial expressions compared to those of emotionally-neutral expressions) after experiencing a brief episode of social exclusion. We found that: (1) socially-excluded individuals reported higher negative emotions, lower positive emotions, and stronger need to belong than those who were not socially excluded; (2) compared to a control condition, social exclusion caused a longer response time to probe dots after viewing positive or negative face images; (3) social exclusion resulted in a higher frequency ratio of first attentional fixation on both positive and negative emotional facial pictures (but not on the neutral pictures) than the control condition; (4) in the social exclusion condition, participants showed shorter first fixation latency and longer first fixation duration to positive pictures than neutral ones but this effect was not observed for negative pictures; (5) participants who experienced social exclusion also showed longer gazing duration on the positive pictures than those who did not; although group differences also existed for the negative pictures, the gaze duration bias from both groups showed no difference from chance. This study demonstrated the emotional response to social exclusion as well as characterising multiple eye-movement indicators of attentional bias after experiencing social exclusion. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Attentional Bias#Emotions#Eye Movements#Facial Expression#Female#Humans#Male#Reaction Time#Social Behavior"
b'Bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMMSCs) have been consider as a promising therapy in fibrotic diseases. Experimental models suggest that BMMSCs may be used as an alternative therapy to treat chemical- or physical-induced pulmonary fibrosis. We investigated the anti-fibrotic potential of BMMSCs in an experimental model of lung fibrosis by infection with Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. BMMSCs were isolated and purified from BALB/c mice using standardized methods. BALB/c male mice were inoculated by intranasal infection of 1.5x106 P. brasiliensis yeasts. Then, 1x106 BMMSCs were administered intra venous at 8th week post-infection (p.i.). An additional group of mice was treated with itraconazole (ITC) two weeks before BMMSCs administration. Animals were sacrificed at 12th week p.i. Histopathological examination, fibrocytes counts, soluble collagen and fibrosis-related genes expression in lungs were evaluated. Additionally, human fibroblasts were treated with homogenized lung supernatants (HLS) to determine induction of collagen expression. Histological analysis showed an increase of granulomatous inflammatory areas in BMMSCs-treated mice. A significant increase of fibrocytes count, soluble collagen and collagen-3\xce\xb11, TGF-\xce\xb23, MMP-8 and MMP-15 genes expression were also observed in those mice. Interestingly, when combined therapy BMMSCs/ITC was used there is a decrease of TIMP-1 and MMP-13 gene expression in infected mice. Finally, human fibroblasts stimulated with HLS from infected and BMMSCs-transplanted mice showed a higher expression of collagen I. In conclusion, our findings indicate that late infusion of BMMSCs into mice infected with P. brasiliensis does not have any anti-fibrotic effect; possibly because their interaction with the fungus promotes collagen expression and tissue remodeling. labels: #Animals#Bone Marrow Cells#Disease Models, Animal#Fibrosis#Lung Diseases, Fungal#Male#Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation#Mesenchymal Stromal Cells#Mice#Mice, Inbred BALB C#Paracoccidioidomycosis#Pulmonary Fibrosis'
b'In this retrospective cross-sectional study, we quantitatively analyzed the tomographic features in the neural tissues around the optic disc in patients with diabetic retinopathy with and without panretinal photocoagulation. We analyzed 206 eyes, comprising 33 normal eyes in subjects without diabetes (group I), 30 eyes without diabetic retinopathy (group II), 66 eyes with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (group III), 45 eyes with panretinal photocoagulation (group IV), and 32 eyes with normal tension glaucoma (group V). Sequential images acquired using swept-source optical coherence tomography in three-dimensional mode were used to measure peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, neuro-retinal rim thickness, anterior lamina cribrosa depth, prelaminar thickness, and thickness of the lamina cribrosa. The peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and lamina cribrosa thickness were significantly thinner in group IV than in group III (p = 0.019 and p<0.001). However, there was no significant difference in rim thickness, anterior lamina cribrosa depth, or prelaminar thickness between groups III and IV (p = 0.307, p = 0.877, and p = 0.212). Multivariate analysis revealed that time since panretinal photocoagulation and thickness of the lamina cribrosa had a significant effect on peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness (p<0.001 and p = 0.014). In group IV, there was a negative correlation between time elapsed since panretinal photocoagulation and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, rim thickness, and thickness of the lamina cribrosa (r = -0.765, r = -0.490, and r = -0.419), but no correlation with prelaminar thickness or anterior lamina cribrosa depth (r = 0.104 and r = -0.171). Panretinal photocoagulation may be related to thinning of the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer, rim thickness, and lamina cribrosa, but not prelaminar thickness or anterior lamina cribrosa depth. These features are different from the peripapillary features of eyes with typical normal tension glaucoma. labels: #Aged#Diabetic Retinopathy#Female#Humans#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Nerve Fibers#Optic Disk#Retina#Retinal Ganglion Cells#Tomography, Optical Coherence'
b'Tumour budding and podia formation are well-appreciated in surgical pathology as an aggressive invasion phenotype of colorectal carcinoma cells that is attained in the microenvironment of the invasive margin. In this study, we addressed how tumour budding and podia formation feature in xenografts. Primary colorectal carcinomas (N = 44) of various molecular types (sporadic standard type, high-degree microsatellite-unstable, CpG island methylator phenotype) were transplanted subcutaneously into T and B cell-deficient NSG mice, making possible immunohistochemistry with routine surgical pathology antibodies. Tumor budding and podia formation were both appreciably present in the xenografts. Quantitative evaluations of cytokeratin immunostains of primaries and their corresponding xenografts showed a reduction of tumour buds in the xenografts. Furthermore, in xenografts tumour cells were completely negative by pSTAT3 immunohistochemistry, indicating absence of cytokine/chemokine signalling, but nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin and SMAD4 immunostainings as read-out of wnt and BMP pathway activation, respectively, were maintained. Carcinoma cells in most xenografts retained immunostaining of at least some nuclei by immunohistochemistry with antibodies against pERK1/2. K-ras/B-raf mutational status did not correlate with tumour budding or podia formation in the xenografts. Our results indicate that tumour budding and podia formation can be modelled by xenografting, and in NSG mice it can be studied with the same immunohistochemical methods as used for primaries in surgical pathology. Dysregulation of wnt and BMP signalling appears to be transferred into the xenograft microenvironment, but not cytokine/chemokine signalling. labels: #Animals#Colorectal Neoplasms#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Humans#Mice#Mutation#Neoplasm Invasiveness#Smad4 Protein#Stromal Cells#Tumor Microenvironment#Wnt Signaling Pathway#Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays#beta Catenin'
b'The Min protein system creates a dynamic spatial pattern in Escherichia coli cells where the proteins MinD and MinE oscillate from pole to pole. MinD positions MinC, an inhibitor of FtsZ ring formation, contributing to the mid-cell localization of cell division. In this paper, Fourier analysis is used to decompose experimental and model MinD spatial distributions into time-dependent harmonic components. In both experiment and model, the second harmonic component is responsible for producing a mid-cell minimum in MinD concentration. The features of this harmonic are robust in both experiment and model. Fourier analysis reveals a close correspondence between the time-dependent behaviour of the harmonic components in the experimental data and model. Given this, each molecular species in the model was analysed individually. This analysis revealed that membrane-bound MinD dimer shows the mid-cell minimum with the highest contrast when averaged over time, carrying the strongest signal for positioning the cell division ring. This concurs with previous data showing that the MinD dimer binds to MinC inhibiting FtsZ ring formation. These results show that non-linear interactions of Min proteins are essential for producing the mid-cell positioning signal via the generation of second-order harmonic components in the time-dependent spatial protein distribution. labels: #Adenosine Triphosphatases#Bacterial Proteins#Cell Cycle Proteins#Cell Division#Cytoskeletal Proteins#Escherichia coli#Escherichia coli Proteins#Fourier Analysis#Gene Expression Regulation, Bacterial#Kinetics#Membrane Proteins#Nonlinear Dynamics#Protein Multimerization#Signal Transduction#Time Factors'
b'BACKGROUND: Hereditary thrombophilia (HT) is a genetic predisposition to thrombosis. Asian mutation spectrum of HT is different from Western ones. We investigated the incidence and clinical characteristics of HT in Korean patients with unprovoked venous thromboembolism (VTE).METHODS: Among 369 consecutive patients with thromboembolic event who underwent thrombophilia tests, we enrolled 222 patients diagnosed with unprovoked VTE. The presence of HT was confirmed by DNA sequencing of the genes that cause deficits in natural anticoagulants (NAs). Median follow-up duration was 40\xc2\xb138 months.RESULTS: Among the 222 patients with unprovoked VTE, 66 (29.7%) demonstrated decreased NA level, and 33 (14.9%) were finally confirmed to have HT in a genetic molecular test. Antithrombin III deficiency (6.3%) was most frequently detected, followed by protein C deficiency (5.4%), protein S deficiency (1.8%), and dysplasminogenemia (1.4%). The HT group was significantly younger (37 [32-50] vs. 52 [43-65]years; P<0.001) and had a higher proportion of male (69.7% vs. 47%; P = 0.013), more previous VTE events (57.6% vs. 31.7%; P = 0.004), and a greater family history of VTE (43.8% vs. 1.9%; P<0.001) than the non-HT group. Age<45 years and a family history of VTE were independent predictors for unprovoked VTE with HT (odds ratio, 9.435 [2.45-36.35]; P = 0.001 and 92.667 [14.95-574.29]; P<0.001).CONCLUSIONS: About 15% of patients with unprovoked VTE had HT. A positive family history of VTE and age<45 years were independent predictors for unprovoked VTE caused by HT. labels: #Adult#Aged#Antithrombin III#Antithrombin III Deficiency#Conjunctivitis#Female#Gene Expression#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Plasminogen#Protein C#Protein C Deficiency#Protein S#Protein S Deficiency#Republic of Korea#Retrospective Studies#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Skin Diseases, Genetic#Thrombophilia#Venous Thromboembolism'
b'pyrE (STM3733) encodes orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRTase; EC 2.4.2.10), the fifth enzyme of the de novo pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway. We identified a \xce\x94pyrE mutant as under selection in screening of a Salmonella mutant library in 4-day old chicks. Here, we confirm that a \xce\x94pyrE mutant colonizes 4-day old chicks poorly in competitive infection with isogenic wild type, and that the ability of this mutant to colonize chicks could be restored by providing a copy of pyrE in trans. We further show that our \xce\x94pyrE mutant grows poorly in nutrient poor conditions in vitro, and that the ability of this mutant to grow is restored, both in vitro and in chicks, when precursors to the pyrimidine salvage pathway were provided. This finding suggests that the environment in the chick intestine during our infections lacks sufficient precursors of the pyrimidine salvage pathway to support Salmonella growth. Finally, we show that the colonization defect of a \xce\x94pyrE mutant during infection occurs in to chicks, but not in CBA/J mice or ligated ileal loops in calves. Our data suggest that de novo pyrimidine synthesis is necessary for colonization of Salmonella Typhimurium in the chick, and that the salvage pathway is not used in this niche. labels: #Animals#Bacterial Proteins#Cattle#Chickens#Colony Count, Microbial#Gene Deletion#Gene Expression#Gene Library#Genetic Complementation Test#Host Specificity#Mice#Mice, Inbred CBA#Orotate Phosphoribosyltransferase#Poultry Diseases#Pyrimidines#Salmonella Infections, Animal#Salmonella typhimurium#Virulence Factors'
b'Antimicrobial resistance is a growing global concern in human and veterinary medicine, with an ever-increasing void in the arsenal of clinicians. Novel classes of compounds including carbon monoxoide-releasing molecules (CORMs), for example the light-activated metal complex [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br, could be used as alternatives/to supplement traditional antibacterials. Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) represent a large reservoir of antibiotic resistance and can cause serious clinical disease in poultry, with potential as zoonotic pathogens, due to shared serotypes and virulence factors with human pathogenic E. coli. The in vitro activity of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br against multidrug-resistant APECs was assessed via broth microtitre dilution assays and synergy testing with colistin performed using checkerboard and time-kill assays. In vivo antibacterial activity of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br alone and in combination with colistin was determined using the Galleria mellonella wax moth larvae model. Animals were monitored for life/death, melanisation and bacterial numbers enumerated from larval haemolymph. In vitro testing produced relatively high [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of 1024 mg/L. However, its activity was significantly increased with the addition of colistin, bringing MICs down to \xe2\x89\xa432 mg/L. This synergy was confirmed in time-kill assays. In vivo assays showed that the combination of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br with colistin produced superior bacterial killing and significantly increased larval survival. In both in vitro and in vivo assays light activation was not required for antibacterial activity. This data supports further evaluation of [Mn(CO)3(tpa-\xce\xba3N)]Br as a potential agent for treatment of systemic infections in humans and animals, when used with permeabilising agents such as colistin. labels: #Animals#Anti-Infective Agents#Birds#Colistin#Drug Resistance, Multiple#Drug Synergism#Escherichia coli#Humans#Organometallic Compounds'
b"Polyphonic music files were analyzed using the set of symbols that produced the Minimal Entropy Description, which we call the Fundamental Scale. This allowed us to create a novel space to represent music pieces by developing: (a) a method to adjust a textual description from its original scale of observation to an arbitrarily selected scale, (b) a method to model the structure of any textual description based on the shape of the symbol frequency profiles, and (c) the concept of higher order entropy as the entropy associated with the deviations of a frequency-ranked symbol profile from a perfect Zipfian profile. We call this diversity index the '2nd Order Entropy'. Applying these methods to a variety of musical pieces showed how the space of 'symbolic specific diversity-entropy' and that of '2nd order entropy' captures characteristics that are unique to each music type, style, composer and genre. Some clustering of these properties around each musical category is shown. These methods allow us to visualize a historic trajectory of academic music across this space, from medieval to contemporary academic music. We show that the description of musical structures using entropy, symbol frequency profiles and specific symbolic diversity allows us to characterize traditional and popular expressions of music. These classification techniques promise to be useful in other disciplines for pattern recognition and machine learning. labels: #Acoustic Stimulation#Entropy#Humans#Information Storage and Retrieval#Markov Chains#Music#Natural Language Processing#Pattern Recognition, Automated#Pattern Recognition, Physiological"
b"Human babesiosis is caused by the apicomplexan parasite Babesia microti, which is of major public health concern in the United States and elsewhere, resulting in malaise and fatigue, followed by a fever and hemolytic anemia. In this paper we focus on the characterization of a novel B. microti thrombospondin domain (TSP1)-containing protein (BmP53) from the new annotation of the B. microti genome (locus 'BmR1_04g09041'). This novel protein (BmP53) had a single TSP1 and a transmembrane domain, with a short cytoplasmic tail containing a sub-terminal glutamine residue, but no signal peptide and Von Willebrand factor type A domains (VWA), which are found in classical thrombospondin-related adhesive proteins (TRAP). Co-localization assays of BmP53 and Babesia microti secreted antigen 1 (BmSA1) suggested that BmP53 might be a non-secretory membranous protein. Molecular mimicry between the TSP1 domain from BmP53 and host platelets molecules was indicated through different measures of sequence homology, phylogenetic analysis, 3D structure and shared epitopes. Indeed, hamster isolated platelets cross-reacted with mouse anti-BmP53-TSP1. Molecular mimicry are used to help parasites to escape immune defenses, resulting in immune evasion or autoimmunity. Furthermore, specific host reactivity was also detected against the TSP1-free part of BmP53 in infected hamster sera. In conclusion, the TSP1 domain mimicry might help in studying the mechanisms of parasite-induced thrombocytopenia, with the TSP1-free truncate of the protein representing a potential safe candidate for future vaccine studies. labels: #Amino Acid Sequence#Animals#Antigens, Protozoan#Babesia microti#Babesiosis#Binding Sites#Blood Platelets#Cloning, Molecular#Cricetulus#Erythrocytes#Escherichia coli#Gene Expression#Glutathione Transferase#Humans#Immune Evasion#Mice#Models, Molecular#Molecular Mimicry#Protein Binding#Protein Interaction Domains and Motifs#Protein Structure, Secondary#Protozoan Proteins#Recombinant Fusion Proteins#Sequence Alignment#Sequence Homology, Amino Acid#Thrombospondin 1"
b'Certificateless-based signcryption overcomes inherent shortcomings in traditional Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) and Key Escrow problem. It imparts efficient methods to design PKIs with public verifiability and cipher text authenticity with minimum dependency. As a classic primitive in public key cryptography, signcryption performs validity of cipher text without decryption by combining authentication, confidentiality, public verifiability and cipher text authenticity much more efficiently than the traditional approach. In this paper, we first define a security model for certificateless-based signcryption called, Complex Conjugate Differential Integrated Factor (CC-DIF) scheme by introducing complex conjugates through introduction of the security parameter and improving secured message distribution rate. However, both partial private key and secret value changes with respect to time. To overcome this weakness, a new certificateless-based signcryption scheme is proposed by setting the private key through Differential (Diff) Equation using an Integration Factor (DiffEIF), minimizing computational cost and communication overhead. The scheme is therefore said to be proven secure (i.e. improving the secured message distributing rate) against certificateless access control and signcryption-based scheme. In addition, compared with the three other existing schemes, the CC-DIF scheme has the least computational cost and communication overhead for secured message communication in mobile network. labels: #Algorithms#Computer Security#Confidentiality#Humans#Internet#Models, Theoretical#Telemedicine#Wireless Technology'
b'We investigated the effects of a vibratory stimulus on the plantar surface of the hind limb for motor, sensory, and locomotive function using a mouse cast model. The right knee joint of C57BL/6 male mice (7 weeks, 20 g, n = 31) was flexed with aluminum splint and tape for 6 weeks. These mice were randomly divided into 2 groups (control group, n = 11 and vibration group, n = 12). The mice in the vibration group received vibration on the sole of the ankle for 15 minutes per day, 5 days per week. After the knee joint cast was removed, we measured the range of motion (ROM) of both knee and ankle joints and the sensory threshold of the sole. Further, both walking and swimming movements were analyzed with a digital video. The sole vibration did not affect the passive ROM of the knee joint and sensory threshold after cast removal. However, it increased the ankle dorsiflexion range and improved free walking, swimming, and active movement of the knee joint. In conclusion, we show that the vibration recovered both walking and swimming movements, which resulted from improvements in both the passive ankle dorsiflexion and active knee movement. labels: #Animals#Ankle Joint#Biomechanical Phenomena#Hindlimb#Knee Joint#Locomotion#Mice#Range of Motion, Articular#Vibration#Walking'
b'Variation in longitudinal control in driving has been discussed in both traffic psychology and transportation engineering. Traffic psychologists have concerned themselves with "driving style", a habitual form of behavior marked by it\'s stability, and its basis in psychological traits. Those working in traffic microsimulation have searched for quantitative ways to represent different driver-car systems in car following models. There has been unfortunately little overlap or theoretical consistency between these literatures. Here, we investigated relationships between directly observable measures (time headway, acceleration and jerk) in a simulated driving task where the driving context, vehicle and environment were controlled. We found individual differences in the way a trade-off was made between close but jerky vs. far and smooth following behavior. We call these "intensive" and "calm" driving, and suggest this trade-off can serve as an indicator of a possible latent factor underlying driving style. We posit that pursuing such latent factors for driving style may have implications for modelling driver heterogeneity across various domains in traffic simulation. labels: #Acceleration#Accidents, Traffic#Adult#Automobile Driving#Computer Simulation#Female#Humans#Male#Reaction Time#Simulation Training'
b'PURPOSE: To identify ocular parameters corresponding to asymmetric visual field (VF) loss in normal tension glaucoma (NTG) through intereye comparisons.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Medical records of NTG patients with asymmetric and symmetric VF losses were retrospectively reviewed. The criterion for asymmetry in VF was 6 dB difference of mean deviation. Refractive error, intraocular pressure (IOP), central corneal thickness, ovality index, and peripapillary atrophy (PPA)/disc area ratio were obtained from each patient. Intereye comparison was performed for asymmetric group, symmetric group, and myopic and nonmyopic asymmetric subgroups.RESULTS: We included 155 patients; 110 patients in asymmetric group and 45 patients in symmetric group. In intereye comparison for total asymmetric group, refractive error (P = 0.006), initial IOP (P = 0.001), ovality index (P = 0.008), and PPA (P<0.001) were significantly asymmetric. For myopic subgroup, refractive error (P = 0.004), ovality index (P = 0.001), and PPA (P = 0.003) were significant factors. For nonmyopic subgroup, initial IOP (P = 0.003) and PPA (P = 0.007) were significant factors. Symmetric group showed no significant difference between the eyes. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that refractive error (P = 0.002) and PPA (P = 0.028) were significant factors in myopic subgroup, and initial IOP (P = 0.022) and PPA (P = 0.002) were significant factors in nonmyopic subgroup.CONCLUSIONS: In this intereye comparison, the more myopic eye in myopic NTG patient, and the more pressured eye in nonmyopic NTG patient demonstrated more severe VF loss. Myopic and nonmyopic patients may follow different pathophysiologic processes. Discriminative attentions should be paid to NTG patients by subtypes. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Corneal Pachymetry#Female#Glaucoma, Open-Angle#Humans#Intraocular Pressure#Low Tension Glaucoma#Male#Middle Aged#Myopia#Optic Disk#Republic of Korea#Tomography, Optical Coherence#Tonometry, Ocular#Visual Fields'
b'A mapping population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from TMV 2 and its mutant, TMV 2-NLM was employed for mapping important taxonomic and productivity traits using genic and non-genic transposable element markers in peanut. Single nucleotide polymorphism and copy number variation using RAD-Sequencing data indicated very limited polymorphism between TMV 2 and TMV 2-NLM. But phenotypically they differed significantly for many taxonomic and productivity traits. Also, the RIL population showed significant variation for a few additional agronomic traits. A genetic linkage map of 1,205.66 cM was constructed using 91 genic and non-genic Arachis hypogaea transposable element (AhTE) markers. Using single marker analysis and QTL analysis, the markers with high phenotypic variance explained (PVE) were identified for branching pattern (32.3%), number of primary and secondary branches (19.9% and 28.4%, respectively), protein content (26.4%), days to 50% flowering (22.0%), content of oleic acid (15.1%), test weight (13.6%) and pod width (12.0%). Three genic markers (AhTE0357, AhTE0391, AhTE0025) with Arachis hypogaea miniature inverted-repeat transposable element (AhMITE1) activity in the genes Araip.TG1BL (B02 chromosome), Aradu.7N61X (A09 chromosome) and Aradu.7065G (A07 chromosome), respectively showed strong linkage with these taxonomic, productivity and quality traits. Since TMV 2 and TMV 2-NLM differed subtly at DNA level, the background noise in detecting the marker-trait associations was minimum; therefore, the markers identified in this study for the taxonomic and productivity traits may be significant and useful in peanut molecular breeding. labels: #Arachis#Breeding#Chromosome Mapping#Classification#DNA Transposable Elements#Genetic Linkage#Genetic Markers#Genome, Plant#Phenotype#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Quantitative Trait Loci'
b"This paper presents the concept of a social autonomous agent to conceptualize such Autonomous Vehicles (AVs), which interacts with other AVs using social manners similar to human behavior. The presented AVs also have the capability of predicting intentions, i.e. mentalizing and copying the actions of each other, i.e. mirroring. Exploratory Agent Based Modeling (EABM) level of the Cognitive Agent Based Computing (CABC) framework has been utilized to design the proposed social agent. Furthermore, to emulate the functionality of mentalizing and mirroring modules of proposed social agent, a tailored mathematical model of the Richardson's arms race model has also been presented. The performance of the proposed social agent has been validated at two levels-firstly it has been simulated using NetLogo, a standard agent-based modeling tool and also, at a practical level using a prototype AV. The simulation results have confirmed that the proposed social agent-based collision avoidance strategy is 78.52% more efficient than Random walk based collision avoidance strategy in congested flock-like topologies. Whereas practical results have confirmed that the proposed scheme can avoid rear end and lateral collisions with the efficiency of 99.876% as compared with the IEEE 802.11n-based existing state of the art mirroring neuron-based collision avoidance scheme. labels: #Accidents, Traffic#Automobile Driving#Automobiles#Computer Simulation#Humans#Imitative Behavior#Intention#Machine Learning#Models, Psychological#Robotics#Systems Analysis"
b'This report presents the use of a CT graft to augment the periimplant\nsoft tissue at time of abutment placement in a smoker using coronalanchoring sutures around a zirconia abutment. Soft tissue augmentation at the\ntime of abutment connection, avoiding abutment removal after CT grafting, useof a zirconia abutment and placement of coronal anchoring sutures might be the\nrecommended approach when dealing with such esthetic challenges. labels: #Connective Tissue#Crowns#Dental Abutments#Dental Implantation, Endosseous#Dental Prosthesis, Implant-Supported#Esthetics, Dental#Female#Gingivoplasty#Humans#Maxilla#Smoking#Sutures#Young Adult#Zirconium'
b'The purpose of this study was to assess the oral hygiene needs of 6,957\nkindergarten and first-grade children enrolled in the San Bernardino City UnifiedSchool District. The findings from this study revealed that 9 percent of first-graders\ndid not own a toothbrush, 15 percent shared a toothbrush and 25.3 percent self-reportedmouth pain. In one school, 30 percent of the first-graders did not own a\ntoothbrush and overall 38 percent of kindergarteners shared a toothbrush. labels: #California#Child#Child, Preschool#Dental Care for Children#Female#Health Services Needs and Demand#Humans#Male#Mass Screening#Oral Health#Oral Hygiene'
b"A survey was conducted in 2013 to document trends in\northodontic treatment provided by members of the California Society ofPediatric Dentistry (CSPD). A 21-item survey was mailed to all active\nmembers of CSPD. Active members of CSPD spent less time and treatedfewer orthodontic conditions in their practice. labels: #California#Humans#Orthodontics#Pediatric Dentistry#Practice Patterns, Dentists'"
b"Research indicates that while most nondental medical providers\nbelieve pediatric oral assessments are important, most lack education and training.This study investigated a metropolitan area in Southern California medical\nproviders\xe2\x80\x99 knowledge, attitudes and practices on oral health assessments. Resultsindicate a high incidence of incorrect dental knowledge. Common barriers were\nlack of knowledge and time. Early intervention and timely dental referrals among\nnondental medical providers can play a significant role in promoting oral health. labels: #California#Child#Cross-Sectional Studies#Dental Care for Children#Diagnosis, Oral#Female#Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice#Humans#Male#Practice Patterns, Dentists'#Surveys and Questionnaires"
b'Oral cancer etiology is complex and controlled by multi-factorial events including genetic events. Candidate gene studies, genome-wide association studies, and next-generation sequencing identified various chromosomal loci to be associated with oral cancer. There is no available review that could give us the comprehensive picture of genetic loci identified to be associated with oral cancer by candidate gene studies-based, genome-wide association studies-based, and next-generation sequencing-based approaches. A systematic literature search was performed in the PubMed database to identify the loci associated with oral cancer by exclusive candidate gene studies-based, genome-wide association studies-based, and next-generation sequencing-based study approaches. The information of loci associated with oral cancer is made online through the resource "ORNATE." Next, screening of the loci validated by candidate gene studies and next-generation sequencing approach or by two independent studies within candidate gene studies or next-generation sequencing approaches were performed. A total of 264 loci were identified to be associated with oral cancer by candidate gene studies, genome-wide association studies, and next-generation sequencing approaches. In total, 28 loci, that is, 14q32.33 (AKT1), 5q22.2 (APC), 11q22.3 (ATM), 2q33.1 (CASP8), 11q13.3 (CCND1), 16q22.1 (CDH1), 9p21.3 (CDKN2A), 1q31.1 (COX-2), 7p11.2 (EGFR), 22q13.2 (EP300), 4q35.2 (FAT1), 4q31.3 (FBXW7), 4p16.3 (FGFR3), 1p13.3 (GSTM1-GSTT1), 11q13.2 (GSTP1), 11p15.5 (H-RAS), 3p25.3 (hOGG1), 1q32.1 (IL-10), 4q13.3 (IL-8), 12p12.1 (KRAS), 12q15 (MDM2), 12q13.12 (MLL2), 9q34.3 (NOTCH1), 17p13.1 (p53), 3q26.32 (PIK3CA), 10q23.31 (PTEN), 13q14.2 (RB1), and 5q14.2 (XRCC4), were validated to be associated with oral cancer. "ORNATE" gives a snapshot of genetic loci associated with oral cancer. All 28 loci were validated to be linked to oral cancer for which further fine-mapping followed by gene-by-gene and gene-environment interaction studies is needed to confirm their involvement in modifying oral cancer. labels: #Genetic Loci#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Genetic Variation#Genome-Wide Association Study#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Humans#Mouth Neoplasms'
b'DACT1 has been shown to participate in the development of many types of tumors; however, its role and precise molecular mechanisms in leukemia are unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of DACT1 on KG-1\xce\xb1 leukemia cells to further understand the mechanisms of DACT1-mediated tumor suppression. We transfected a DACT1 expression plasmid to upregulate DACT1 in KG-1\xce\xb1 cells and analyzed the resulting phenotypic changes. The results demonstrated that DACT1 overexpression inhibited KG-1\xce\xb1 proliferation, increased apoptosis, and arrested cells in the G0/G1 phase. Mechanistically, DACT1 overexpression inhibited Wnt/\xce\xb2-catenin signaling by reducing nuclear \xce\xb2-catenin levels in KG-1\xce\xb1 cells. Furthermore, the viability of KG-1\xce\xb1 cells transfected with DACT1 was significantly reduced when treated with daunorubicin. We also found that DACT1 reduced P-glycoprotein expression in KG-1\xce\xb1 cells. These findings revealed an inhibitory role for DACT1 in leukemogenesis and provided evidence that DACT1 is an attractive target for the development of novel anti-leukemia therapies. labels: #ATP-Binding Cassette, Sub-Family B, Member 1#Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing#Apoptosis#Carcinogenesis#Cell Line, Tumor#Cell Proliferation#Daunorubicin#G1 Phase#Gene Expression Regulation, Leukemic#Humans#Leukemia#Nuclear Proteins#Resting Phase, Cell Cycle#Transfection#Up-Regulation#Wnt Signaling Pathway#beta Catenin'
b"The presence of distant metastasis is associated with an adverse outcome in papillary thyroid cancer. We performed a meta-analysis to investigate the role of molecular markers as predictors for distant metastasis in papillary thyroid cancer. Four electronic databases including PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and Virtual Health Library were searched, and odds ratio and its 95% confidence interval concerning the association of BRAF, RAS, and TERT promoter mutations and RET/PTC rearrangements with distant metastasis were calculated using random-effects model. In total, 42 studies with 11,109 papillary thyroid cancers were included for meta-analyses. Overall, the presence of TERT promoter (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x895.95; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.95-11.99), RAS mutations (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x892.5; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.00-6.22), and RET/PTC rearrangements (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.92; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x891.03-3.56) were found to be associated with a significantly increased risk for distant metastasis. BRAF mutations were not associated with an elevated risk for distant metastasis (odds ratio\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.79; 95% confidence interval\xe2\x80\x89=\xe2\x80\x890.54-1.16). In conclusion, our study demonstrated the promising value of few molecular biomarkers, especially TERT promoter mutations in predicting distant metastasis in papillary thyroid cancers, while BRAF mutations showed no association with distant metastasis. Our study affirms the value of selected mutations for tumor risk stratification and assessment of patients' prognosis. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Biomarkers, Tumor#Carcinoma#Carcinoma, Papillary#Databases, Factual#Female#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Mutation#Neoplasm Metastasis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf#Telomerase#Thyroid Neoplasms#ras Proteins"
b'BACKGROUND: Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome (JLNS) isa recessive model of long QT syndrome which might also be related to possible hearing loss. Although the syndrome has been demonstrated to be originated from homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations in either the KCNQ1 or KCNE1 genes, additional mutations in other genetic loci should be considered, particularly in malignant course patients.CASE PRESENTATIONS: Three patients were admitted into hospital due to recurrent seizures/syncope, intrauterine and postnatal bradycardia respectively; moreover all three patients had congenital sensorineural hearing-loss. Their electrocardiograms showed markedly prolonged QT interval. Implantable defibrillator was implanted and left cardiac sympathetic denervation was performed due to the progressive disease in case 1. She had countless ventricular fibrillation and appropriate shock while using an implantable defibrillator. The DNA sequencing analysis of the KCNQ1 gene disclosed a homozygous c.728G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A (p.Arg243His) missense mutation in case1. Further targeted next generation sequencing of cardiac panel comprising 68 gene revealed a heterozygous c.1346\xc2\xa0T\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0G (p.Ile449Arg) variant in RYR2 gene and a heterozygous c.809G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A (p.Cys270Tyr) variant in NKX2-5 gene in the same patient. Additional gene alterations in RYR2 and NKX2-5 genes were thought to be responsible for progressive and malignant course of the disease. As a result of DNA sequencing analysis of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 genes, a compound heterozygosity for two mutations had been detected in KCNQ1 gene in case 2: a maternally derived c.477\xc2\xa0+\xc2\xa01G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A splice site mutation and a paternally derived c.520C\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0T (p.Arg174Cys) missense mutation. Sanger sequencing of KCNQ1 and KCNE1 genes displayed a homozygous c.1097G\xc2\xa0>\xc2\xa0A (p.Arg366Gln) mutation in KCNQ1 gene in case 3. \xce\xb2-blocker therapy was initiated to all the index subjects.CONCLUSIONS: Three families of JLNS who presented with long QT and deafness and who carry homozygous, or compound heterozygous mutation in KCNQ1 gene were presented in this report. It was emphasized that broad targeted cardiac panels may be useful to predict the outcome especially in patients with unexplained phenotype-genotype correlation.\xc2\xa0Clinical presentations and molecular findings will be discussed further to clarify the phenotype genotype associations. labels: #Adrenergic beta-Antagonists#Child, Preschool#Electrocardiography#Female#Hearing Loss, Sensorineural#Heterozygote#High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing#Homeobox Protein Nkx-2.5#Homozygote#Humans#Infant#Jervell-Lange Nielsen Syndrome#KCNQ1 Potassium Channel#Male#Pedigree#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Potassium Channels, Voltage-Gated#Ryanodine Receptor Calcium Release Channel#Sequence Analysis, DNA#Turkey'
b": Background: Most veterans have the option of receiving their health care from the Veterans Health Administration or through primary care providers in the private sector. However, there is some evidence that fewer than half of community-based, private sector primary care and mental health providers screen their patients for military service, particularly in rural areas, leaving these veterans less likely to be screened for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other military service-related conditions.PURPOSE: To determine whether primary care providers in the private sector are screening patients for military service and subsequent PTSD.METHODS: We designed and piloted a survey to determine whether primary care providers in a rural Pennsylvania region routinely screen for military service and service-related PTSD. We distributed the survey to a convenience sample of more than 250 primary care providers in central and western Pennsylvania through the U.S. Postal Service, via Facebook, and via work e-mails for those who worked in a local health system.RESULTS: Among 50 eligible respondents, only four (8%) said they screen all their patients for military service, and 20 (40%) reported screening none; only two respondents (4%) screened all their patients who have served in the military for PTSD, and 30 (60%) screened none.CONCLUSION: Veterans who rely on private sector providers may not receive evidence-based care for military service-related health problems, including PTSD. To improve care for these patients, providers in the private sector should be educated on why all patients should be screened for military service, how to conduct such screening properly, and veterans' general health concerns. labels: #Cross-Sectional Studies#Humans#Military Personnel#Pennsylvania#Physician-Patient Relations#Practice Patterns, Physicians'#Primary Health Care#Quality of Health Care#Stress Disorders, Post-Traumatic#Surveys and Questionnaires#Veterans"
b'Worldwide use of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded blocks (FFPE) is extensive in diagnosis and research. Yet, there is a lack of optimized/standardized protocols to process the blocks and verify the quality and presence of the targeted tissue. In the context of an international study on head and neck cancer (HNC)-HPV-AHEAD, a standardized protocol for optimizing the use of FFPEs in molecular epidemiology was developed and validated. First, a protocol for sectioning the FFPE was developed to prevent cross-contamination and distributed between participating centers. Before processing blocks, all sectioning centers underwent a quality control to guarantee a satisfactory training process. The first and last sections of the FFPEs were used for histopathological assessment. A consensus histopathology evaluation form was developed by an international panel of pathologists and evaluated for four indicators in a pilot analysis in order to validate it: 1) presence/type of tumor tissue, 2) identification of other tissue components that could affect the molecular diagnosis and 3) quality of the tissue. No HPV DNA was found in sections from empty FFPE generated in any histology laboratories of HPV-AHEAD consortium and all centers passed quality assurance for processing after quality control. The pilot analysis to validate the histopathology form included 355 HNC cases. The form was filled by six pathologists and each case was randomly assigned to two of them. Most samples (86%) were considered satisfactory. Presence of>50% of invasive carcinoma was observed in all sections of 66% of cases. Substantial necrosis (>50%) was present in<2% of samples. The concordance for the indicators targeted to validate the histopathology form was very high (kappa>0.85) between first and last sections and fair to high between pathologists (kappa/pabak 0.21-0.72). The protocol allowed to correctly process without signs of contamination all FFPE of the study. The histopathology evaluation of the cases assured the presence of the targeted tissue, identified the presence of other tissues that could disturb the molecular diagnosis and allowed the assessment of tissue quality. labels: #Carcinoma#Europe#Head and Neck Neoplasms#Humans#India#Molecular Diagnostic Techniques#Molecular Epidemiology#Necrosis#Paraffin#Paraffin Embedding#Pilot Projects#Random Allocation'
b'The adaptation of the CRISPR-Cas9 system as a genome editing technique has generated much excitement in recent years owing to its ability to manipulate targeted genes and genomic regions that are complementary to a programmed single guide RNA (sgRNA). However, the efficacy of a specific sgRNA is not uniquely defined by exact sequence homology to the target site, thus unintended off-targets might additionally be cleaved. Current methods for sgRNA design are mainly concerned with predicting off-targets for a given sgRNA using basic sequence features and employ elementary rules for ranking possible sgRNAs. Here, we introduce CRISTA (CRISPR Target Assessment), a novel algorithm within the machine learning framework that determines the propensity of a genomic site to be cleaved by a given sgRNA. We show that the predictions made with CRISTA are more accurate than other available methodologies. We further demonstrate that the occurrence of bulges is not a rare phenomenon and should be accounted for in the prediction process. Beyond predicting cleavage efficiencies, the learning process provides inferences regarding patterns that underlie the mechanism of action of the CRISPR-Cas9 system. We discover that attributes that describe the spatial structure and rigidity of the entire genomic site as well as those surrounding the PAM region are a major component of the prediction capabilities. labels: #Algorithms#CRISPR-Cas Systems#Computational Biology#Gene Editing#Humans#Machine Learning#RNA, Guide#ROC Curve'
b'BACKGROUND: In China, dengue remains an important public health issue with expanded areas and increased incidence recently. Accurate and timely forecasts of dengue incidence in China are still lacking. We aimed to use the state-of-the-art machine learning algorithms to develop an accurate predictive model of dengue.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Weekly dengue cases, Baidu search queries and climate factors (mean temperature, relative humidity and rainfall) during 2011-2014 in Guangdong were gathered. A dengue search index was constructed for developing the predictive models in combination with climate factors. The observed year and week were also included in the models to control for the long-term trend and seasonality. Several machine learning algorithms, including the support vector regression (SVR) algorithm, step-down linear regression model, gradient boosted regression tree algorithm (GBM), negative binomial regression model (NBM), least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) linear regression model and generalized additive model (GAM), were used as candidate models to predict dengue incidence. Performance and goodness of fit of the models were assessed using the root-mean-square error (RMSE) and R-squared measures. The residuals of the models were examined using the autocorrelation and partial autocorrelation function analyses to check the validity of the models. The models were further validated using dengue surveillance data from five other provinces. The epidemics during the last 12 weeks and the peak of the 2014 large outbreak were accurately forecasted by the SVR model selected by a cross-validation technique. Moreover, the SVR model had the consistently smallest prediction error rates for tracking the dynamics of dengue and forecasting the outbreaks in other areas in China.CONCLUSION AND SIGNIFICANCE: The proposed SVR model achieved a superior performance in comparison with other forecasting techniques assessed in this study. The findings can help the government and community respond early to dengue epidemics. labels: #Algorithms#China#Climate#Dengue#Disease Outbreaks#Forecasting#Humans#Incidence#Linear Models#Machine Learning#Predictive Value of Tests#Public Health#Temperature'
b"Malaria transmission is known to be strongly impacted by temperature. The current understanding of how temperature affects mosquito and parasite life history traits derives from a limited number of empirical studies. These studies, some dating back to the early part of last century, are often poorly controlled, have limited replication, explore a narrow range of temperatures, and use a mixture of parasite and mosquito species. Here, we use a single pairing of the Asian mosquito vector, An. stephensi and the human malaria parasite, P. falciparum to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the thermal performance curves of a range of mosquito and parasite traits relevant to transmission. We show that biting rate, adult mortality rate, parasite development rate, and vector competence are temperature sensitive. Importantly, we find qualitative and quantitative differences to the assumed temperature-dependent relationships. To explore the overall implications of temperature for transmission, we first use a standard model of relative vectorial capacity. This approach suggests a temperature optimum for transmission of 29\xc2\xb0C, with minimum and maximum temperatures of 12\xc2\xb0C and 38\xc2\xb0C, respectively. However, the robustness of the vectorial capacity approach is challenged by the fact that the empirical data violate several of the model's simplifying assumptions. Accordingly, we present an alternative model of relative force of infection that better captures the observed biology of the vector-parasite interaction. This model suggests a temperature optimum for transmission of 26\xc2\xb0C, with a minimum and maximum of 17\xc2\xb0C and 35\xc2\xb0C, respectively. The differences between the models lead to potentially divergent predictions for the potential impacts of current and future climate change on malaria transmission. The study provides a framework for more detailed, system-specific studies that are essential to develop an improved understanding on the effects of temperature on malaria transmission. labels: #Animals#Culicidae#Female#Humans#Life Cycle Stages#Malaria#Models, Biological#Parasites#Temperature#Time Factors"
b'Pollination syndromes and their predictive power regarding actual plant-animal interactions have been controversially discussed in the past. We investigate pollination syndromes in Balsaminaceae, utilizing quantitative respectively categorical data sets of flower morphometry, signal and reward traits for 86 species to test for the effect of different types of data on the test patterns retrieved. Cluster Analyses of the floral traits are used in combination with independent pollinator observations. Based on quantitative data we retrieve seven clusters, six of them corresponding to plausible pollination syndromes and one additional, well-supported cluster comprising highly divergent floral architectures. This latter cluster represents a non-syndrome of flowers not segregated by the specific data set here used. Conversely, using categorical data we obtained only a rudimentary resolution of pollination syndromes, in line with several earlier studies. The results underscore that the use of functional, exactly quanitified trait data has the power to retrieve pollination syndromes circumscribed by the specific data used. Data quality can, however, not be replaced by sheer data volume. With this caveat, it is possible to identify pollination syndromes from large datasets and to reliably extrapolate them for taxa for which direct observations are unavailable. labels: #Animals#Balsaminaceae#Cluster Analysis#Data Accuracy#Flowers#Pollination#Species Specificity'
b'BACKGROUND: Providing HIV testing at health facilities remains the most common approach to ensuring access to HIV treatment and prevention services for the millions of undiagnosed HIV-infected individuals in sub-Saharan Africa. We sought to explore the costs of providing these services across three southern African countries with high HIV burden.METHODS: Primary costing studies were undertaken in 54 health facilities providing HIV testing services (HTS) in Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Routinely collected monitoring and evaluation data for the health facilities were extracted to estimate the costs per individual tested and costs per HIV-positive individual identified. Costs are presented in 2016 US dollars. Sensitivity analysis explored key drivers of costs.RESULTS: Health facilities were testing on average 2290 individuals annually, albeit with wide variations. The mean cost per individual tested was US$5.03.9 in Malawi, US$4.24 in Zambia and US$8.79 in Zimbabwe. The mean cost per HIV-positive individual identified was US$79.58, US$73.63 and US$178.92 in Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe respectively. Both cost estimates were sensitive to scale of testing, facility staffing levels and the costs of HIV test kits.CONCLUSIONS: Health facility based HIV testing remains an essential service to meet HIV universal access goals. The low costs and potential for economies of scale suggests an opportunity for further scale-up. However low uptake in many settings suggests that demand creation or alternative testing models may be needed to achieve economies of scale and reach populations less willing to attend facility based services. labels: #Feasibility Studies#HIV Infections#Health Care Costs#Health Facilities#Humans#Malawi#Mass Screening#Patient Acceptance of Health Care#Zambia#Zimbabwe'
b'INTRODUCTION AND METHOD: Africa is currently host to a number of international genomics research and biobanking consortia, each with a mandate to advance genomics research and biobanking in Africa. Whilst most of these consortia promise to transform the way international health research is done in Africa, few have articulated exactly how they propose to go about this. In this paper, we report on a qualitative interviewing study in which we involved 17 genomics researchers in Africa. We describe their perceptions and expectations of international genomics research and biobanking initiatives in Africa.RESULTS: All interviewees were of the view that externally funded genomics research and biobanking initiatives in Africa, have played a critical role in building capacity for genomics research and biobanking in Africa and in providing an opportunity for researchers in Africa to collaborate and network with other researchers. Whilst the opportunity to collaborate was seen as a benefit, some interviewees stressed the importance of recognizing that these collaborations carry mutual benefits for all partners, including their collaborators in HICs. They also voiced two major concerns of being part of these collaborative initiatives: the possibility of exploitation of African researchers and the non-sustainability of research capacity building efforts. As a way of minimising exploitation, researchers in Africa recommended that genuine efforts be made to create transparent and equitable international health research partnerships. They suggested that this could be achieved through,: having rules of engagement, enabling African researchers to contribute to the design and conduct of international health projects in Africa, and mutual and respectful exchange of experience and capacity between research collaborators. These were identified as hallmarks to equitable international health research collaborations in Africa.CONCLUSION: Genomics research and biobanking initiatives in Africa such as H3Africa have gone some way in defining aspects of fair and equitable research collaborations in Africa. However, they will need to strive at achieving equitable health research collaborations if they truly aim at setting a gold standard for how international health research should be conducted in Africa. labels: #Africa#Biological Specimen Banks#Biomedical Research#Capacity Building#Cooperative Behavior#Decision Making#Genomics#Humans#Interviews as Topic#Qualitative Research#Research Design#Research Personnel'
b'PURPOSE: To analyze internal spherical aberration in pseudophakic eyes that underwent aspheric intraocular lens (IOL) implantation, and to investigate the relationships between biometric data and the effectiveness of aspheric IOL implantation.METHODS: This retrospective study included 40 eyes of 40 patients who underwent implantation of an IOL having a negative spherical aberration of -0.20 \xce\xbcm (CT ASPHINA 509M; Carl Zeiss Meditec Inc., Germany). The IOLMaster (version 5.0; Carl Zeiss AG, Germany) was used for preoperative biometric measurements (axial length, anterior chamber depth, central corneal power) and the measurement of postoperative anterior chamber depth. The spherical aberrations were measured preoperatively and 3 months postoperatively using the iTrace (Tracey Technologies, Houston, TX, USA) at a pupil diameter of 5.0 mm. We investigated the relationships between preoperative biometric data and postoperative internal spherical aberration, and compared biometric measurements between 2 subgroups stratified according to internal spherical aberration (spherical aberration \xe2\x89\xa4 -0.06 \xce\xbcm vs. spherical aberration>-0.06 \xce\xbcm).RESULTS: The mean postoperative internal spherical aberration was -0.087 \xc2\xb1 0.063 \xce\xbcm. Preoperative axial length and residual total spherical aberration showed statistically significant correlations with internal spherical aberration (p = 0.041, 0.002). Preoperative axial length, postoperative anterior chamber depth, IOL power, and residual spherical aberration showed significant differences between the 2 subgroups stratified according to internal spherical aberration (p = 0.020, 0.029, 0.048, 0.041 respectively).CONCLUSION: The corrective effect of an aspheric IOL is influenced by preoperative axial length and postoperative anterior chamber depth. Not only the amount of negative spherical aberration on the IOL surface but also the preoperative axial length should be considered to optimize spherical aberration after aspheric IOL implantation. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Biometry#Cataract#Cataract Extraction#Cornea#Corneal Wavefront Aberration#Humans#Lens Implantation, Intraocular#Lenses, Intraocular#Linear Models#Middle Aged#Postoperative Period#Preoperative Period#Pseudophakia#Retrospective Studies#Treatment Outcome'
b'BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Isoniazid (INH) is part of the first-line-therapy for tuberculosis (TB) but can cause drug-induced liver injury (DILI). Several candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been previously identified but the clinical utility of these SNPs in the prediction of INH-DILI remains uncertain. The aim of this study was to assess the association between selected candidate SNPs and the risk of INH-DILI and to assess the clinical validity of associated variants in a Singaporean population.METHODS: This was a case-control study where 24 INH-DILI cases and 79 controls were recruited from the TB control unit in a tertiary hospital. Logistic regression was used to test for the association between candidate SNPs and INH-DILI. NAT2 acetylator status was inferred from genotypes and tested for association with INH-DILI. Finally, clinical validity measures were estimated for significant variants.RESULTS: Two SNPs in NAT2 (rs1041983 and rs1495741) and NAT2 slow acetylators (SA) were significantly associated with INH-DILI (OR (95% CI) = 13.86 (4.30-44.70), 0.10 (0.03-0.33) and 9.98 (3.32-33.80), respectively). Based on an INH-DILI prevalence of 10%, the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of NAT2 SA were 75%, 78%, 28% and 97%, respectively. The population attributable fraction (PAF) and number needed to test (NNT) for NAT2 SA were estimated to be 0.67 and 4.08, respectively. A model with clinical and NAT2 acetylator status provided significantly better prediction for INH-DILI than a clinical model alone (area under receiver operating characteristic curve = 0.863 vs. 0.766, respectively, p = 0.027).CONCLUSIONS: We show the association between NAT2 SA and INH-DILI in a Singaporean population and demonstrated its clinical utility in the prediction of INH-DILI. labels: #Antitubercular Agents#Arylamine N-Acetyltransferase#Biomarkers, Pharmacological#Case-Control Studies#Chemical and Drug Induced Liver Injury#Female#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#Humans#Isoniazid#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Singapore#Tuberculosis'
b'OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the differences and similarities in dietary patterns among migrants and natives.METHODS: A population-based, cross-sectional study was conducted in the city of S\xc3\xa3o Paulo. The study population included internal migrants, defined as individuals born outside S\xc3\xa3o Paulo city who had lived in the city for ten years or longer. The final population (n = 999) was divided into three groups: natives of S\xc3\xa3o Paulo (n = 354), migrants from the Southeast (n = 349) and migrants from the Northeast (n = 296). Factor and principal component analysis was employed to derive dietary patterns. The standardized scores were compared among groups using linear regression.RESULTS: Differences in income per capita, years of education, self-reported race, smoking habits, alcohol consumption, nutritional status and prevalence of hypertension were found for place of birth. Three dietary patterns were identified: prudent (salad dressings, vegetables, natural flavorings, fruits, whole-grain bread, white cheeses and juices), traditional (rice, beans, bread/toast/crackers, butter/margarine, whole milk, coffee/teas, sugar), and modern (sodas, pastries/sandwiches/pizzas, yellow cheeses, pastas, sauces, alcoholic beverages, sweets, processed meats). Compared to natives, migrants from the Southeast had an inversely proportional adherence to the modern pattern whereas migrants from the Northeast had an inverse association with the prudent and modern patterns and a positive association with the traditional pattern.CONCLUSIONS: S\xc3\xa3o Paulo natives and internal migrants from other regions of Brazil exhibited different dietary patterns. The results presented here add perspectives to be considered in the study of non-communicable diseases and its different incidences among migrants and natives. labels: #Brazil#Cross-Sectional Studies#Diet#Diet Surveys#Factor Analysis, Statistical#Feeding Behavior#Female#Humans#Linear Models#Male#Middle Aged#Principal Component Analysis#Self Report#Socioeconomic Factors#Transients and Migrants'
b'BACKGROUND: Plasmodium vivax transmission in Thailand has been substantially reduced over the past 10 years, yet it remains highly endemic along international borders. Understanding the genetic relationship of residual parasite populations can help track the origins of the parasites that are reintroduced into malaria-free regions within the country.METHODOLOGY/RESULTS: A total of 127 P. vivax isolates were genotyped from two western provinces (Tak and Kanchanaburi) and one eastern province (Ubon Ratchathani) of Thailand using 10 microsatellite markers. Genetic diversity was high, but recent clonal expansion was detected in all three provinces. Substantial population structure and genetic differentiation of parasites among provinces suggest limited gene flow among these sites. There was no haplotype sharing among the three sites, and a reduced panel of four microsatellite markers was sufficient to assign the parasites to their provincial origins.CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Significant parasite genetic differentiation between provinces shows successful interruption of parasite spread within Thailand, but high diversity along international borders implies a substantial parasite population size in these regions. The provincial origin of P. vivax cases can be reliably determined by genotyping four microsatellite markers, which should be useful for monitoring parasite reintroduction after malaria elimination. labels: #Cambodia#Gene Flow#Genetic Variation#Genotype#Haplotypes#Humans#Internationality#Malaria, Vivax#Microsatellite Repeats#Myanmar#Phylogeography#Plasmodium vivax#Thailand'
b'The formation of the coccolith biominerals by a group of marine algae (the Coccolithophores) offers fascinating research avenues both from the biological and geological sides. It is surprising how biomineralisation by a key phytoplanktonic group remains underconstrained, yet is influential on ocean alkalinity and responsible for the built up of our paleoclimatic archive over the last 200 Myrs. Here, we report two close relative coccolith taxa exhibiting substantial bioaccumulation of strontium: Scyphosphaera and Pontosphaera grown in the laboratory or retrieved from Pliocene sediments. This strontium enrichment relative to calcium is one order of magnitude greater than reported in other coccoliths of the orders Isochrysidales and Coccolithales, and extends well beyond established controls on Sr/Ca ratios by temperature and growth rate. We discuss this prominent vital effect in relation with possible specific uptake of strontium relative to calcium from the extracellular environment to the coccolith vesicle in coccolithophores excreting very large scale coccoliths. The report of Sr-rich biominerals challenges our current understanding of the cellular acquisition and intracellular trafficking of alkaline earth cations in phytoplanktonic calcifying eukaryotic algae. The presence of Sr-rich coccolith species in the geological record has to be quantitatively considered in future Sr/Ca-based palaeoceanographic reconstruction. labels: #Calcification, Physiologic#Calcium#Fossils#Haptophyta#Microscopy, Electron, Scanning#Oceans and Seas#Sicily#Spectrum Analysis#Strontium#Temperature#X-Ray Diffraction'
b'The prediction of object stability on earth requires the establishment of a perceptual frame of reference based on the direction of gravity. Across three experiments, we measured the critical angle (CA) at which an object appeared equally likely to fall over or right itself. We investigated whether the internal representation of the gravity direction, biased by either simulated tilt (rotating visual surround) or real body tilt situations, influences in a similar fashion the judgment of stability. In the simulated tilt condition, the estimated CA and the perceived gravity are both deviated in the same direction. In the real tilt condition, the orientation of the body affects the perception of gravity direction but has no effect on the estimated CA. Results suggest that people differently weigh gravity direction information provided by visual motion and by visual polarity cues for estimating the stability of objects. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Cues#Female#Gravity Sensing#Humans#Male#Motion#Orientation#Photic Stimulation#Visual Perception#Young Adult'
b'BACKGROUND: Juvenile myasthenia gravis (MG) is a rare autoantibody mediated autoimmune disorder targeting the neuromuscular endplate. The clinical hallmark is muscle weakness and fatigability. Disease aetiology is complex, including both genetic and environmental factors. The involvement of genes in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is well established in adult MG. However, HLA associations in European juvenile MG have not been studied. This case-control study aimed to investigate and characterize genetic risk factors in prepubertal and postpubertal onset juvenile MG.METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A population based Norwegian cohort of 43 juvenile MG patients (17 with prepubertal onset, 26 with postpubertal onset) and 368 controls were included. Next generation sequencing of five HLA loci (HLA-A, -B, -C, -DRB1 and -DQB1) was performed, and a positive association was seen with HLA-B*08 (OR (95% CI) = 3.27 (2.00-5.36), Pc = 0.00003) and HLA-DRB1*04:04 (OR (95% CI) = 2.65 (1.57-4.24), Pc = 0.03). Stratified in postpubertal and prepubertal onset, HLA-DRB1*04:04 was only positively associated with the latter (P = 0.01). The HLA-B*08 allele (12.9% in the controls), previously described associated with early onset adult MG, was most frequently observed in postpubertal onset MG (40.4%, P = 0.0002) but also increased among prepubertal onset MG (23.5%, P = 0.05).CONCLUSION: This study provides novel information about HLA susceptibility alleles in Norwegian juvenile MG where HLA-DRB1*04:04 was associated with prepubertal onset. labels: #Adolescent#Age of Onset#Case-Control Studies#Child#Child, Preschool#Female#Genetic Loci#Genetic Predisposition to Disease#HLA-DRB1 Chains#Humans#Infant#Male#Myasthenia Gravis#Norway#Puberty'
b'Brucella canis infection is an important cause of late-term abortion in pregnant bitches. The pathophysiological mechanisms leading to B. canis-induced abortion are unknown, but heavily infected trophoblasts are consistently observed. As trophoblasts responses to other pathogens contribute to placental inflammation leading to abortion, the aim of the present study was to characterize the cytokine response of canine trophoblasts to B. canis infection. To achieve this, trophoblasts isolated from term placenta of healthy female dogs were infected with B. canis, culture supernatants were harvested for cytokine determinations, and the load of intracellular viable B. canis was determined at different times post-infection. Additionally, cytokine responses were assessed in non-infected trophoblasts stimulated with conditioned media (CM) from B. canis-infected canine monocytes and neutrophils. Finally, cytokine response and bacteria replication were assessed in canine placental explants infected ex vivo. B. canis successfully infected and replicated in primary canine trophoblasts, eliciting an increase in IL-8 and RANTES (CCL5) secretion. Moreover, the stimulation of trophoblasts with CM from B. canis-infected monocytes and neutrophils induced a significant increase in IL-8, IL-6 and RANTES secretion. B. canis replication was confirmed in infected placental explants and the infection elicited an increased secretion of TNF-\xce\xb1, IL-8, IL-6 and RANTES. This study shows that canine trophoblasts produce proinflammatory cytokines in response to B. canis infection and/or to stimulation with factors produced by infected monocytes and neutrophils. These cytokines may contribute to placental inflammation leading to abortion in B. canis-infected pregnant bitches. labels: #Animals#Antigens, Bacterial#Brucella canis#Chemokines#Dogs#Female#Inflammation#Phagocytes#Placenta#Pregnancy#Toll-Like Receptors#Trophoblasts'
b'Human and bovine respiratory syncytial viruses (HRSV/BRSV) are major causes of severe lower respiratory tract infections in children and calves, respectively. Shared epidemiological, clinical, pathological and genetic characteristics of these viruses make comparative research highly relevant. To characterise the host response against BRSV infection, bronchoalveolar lavage supernatant (BAL) from i) non-vaccinated, BRSV-infected ii) vaccinated, BRSV-infected and iii) non-infected calves was analysed by tandem mass spectrometry. Proteins were semi-quantified and protein expression was validated by immunoblotting. Correlations between selected proteins and pathology, clinical signs and virus shedding were investigated. Calves with BRSV-induced disease had increased total protein concentrations and a decreased number of proteins identified in BAL. The protein profile was characterised by neutrophil activation and a reduction in identified antioxidant enzymes. The presence of neutrophils in alveolar septa, the expression level of neutrophil-related or antioxidant proteins and LZTFL1 correlated significantly with disease. Citrullinated histone 3, an indicator of extracellular traps (ETs), was only detected in non-vaccinated, BRSV-infected animals. By bringing disequilibrium in the release and detoxification of reactive oxygen species, generating ETs and causing elastine degradation, exaggerated neutrophil responses might exacerbate RSV-induced disease. Neutrophil-mitigating or antioxidant treatments should be further explored. labels: #Animals#Bronchoalveolar Lavage#Cattle#Neutrophil Activation#Neutrophils#Proteomics#Reactive Oxygen Species#Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections#Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Bovine#Respiratory System#Transcriptome#Virus Shedding'
b"BACKGROUND/AIMS: MRI assessment of the brain has demonstrated four different patterns of atrophy in patients with Alzheimer's disease dementia (AD): typical AD, limbic-predominant AD, hippocampal-sparing AD, and a subtype with minimal atrophy, previously referred to as no-atrophy AD. The aim of the present study was to identify and describe the differences between these four AD subtypes in a longitudinal memory-clinic study.METHODS: The medial temporal lobes, the frontal regions, and the posterior regions were assessed with MRI visual rating scales to categorize 123 patients with mild AD according to ICD-10 and NINCDS-ADRDA criteria and the clinical dementia rating scale (CDR) into atrophy subtypes. Demographic data, neuropsychological measures, cerebrospinal-fluid biomarkers, and progression rate of dementia at two-year follow-up were compared between the groups.RESULTS: Typical AD was found in 59 patients (48%); 29 (24%) patients had limbic-predominant AD; 19 (15%) had hippocampal-sparing AD; and 16 (13%) belonged to the group with minimal atrophy. No differences were found regarding cognitive test results or progression rates between the different subtypes. Using adjusted logistic regression analysis, we found that the patients in the minimal-atrophy group were less educated, had a lower baseline CDR sum of boxes score, and had higher levels of amyloid \xce\xb2 in the cerebrospinal fluid.CONCLUSION: Previous results concerning the prevalence and the similar phenotypic expressions of the four AD subtypes were confirmed. The main finding was that patients with minimal atrophy as assessed by MRI had less education than the other AD subtypes and that this could support the cognitive reserve hypothesis and, at least in part, explain the lower degree of atrophy in this group. Patients with less formal education might present with clinically typical AD symptoms before they have positive biomarkers of AD and this finding might challenge suggested biomarker-based criteria for AD. labels: #Aged#Alzheimer Disease#Atrophy#Cognitive Reserve#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Magnetic Resonance Imaging#Male"
b"BACKGROUND: Testing whether familial socioeconomic status (SES) in childhood is a predictor of mortality has rarely been done on historical cohorts.METHODS: The birth certificates of 4,805 individuals born 1914-1916 in 16 districts of the Paris region were retrieved. The handwritten information provided the occupation of parents, the legitimacy status, life events (e.g. marriage, divorce), and the precise date of death when after 1945 (i.e. age 31 years (y) in the cohort). We used the median age at death (MAD) as a global measure of mortality, then studied separately survival to and after 31 y. Multivariate Imputation by Chained Equations (MICE), Generalized Additive Models (GAMs) and mixed effect Cox models were used.RESULTS: MAD showed large variations according to paternal occupation. The lowest MAD in both sexes was that of workers' children: it was 56.3 y (95% CI: [48.6-62.7]) in men and 67.4 y (95% CI: [60.8-72.7]) in women, respectively (95% CI: 13.4 y [5.7-21.3]) and 12.3 y (95% CI: [4.0-19.2]) below the highest MAD attained. MAD experienced by illegitimate children was 18.9 y (95% CI: [13.3-32.3]) shorter than of legitimate children. The multivariate analysis revealed that in both sexes survival to age 31 y was predicted independently by legitimacy and paternal occupation. Paternal occupation was found significantly associated with mortality after age 31 y in females only: accordingly difference in life expectancy at age 31 y was 4.4 y (95% CI: [1.2-7.6]) between upper class and workers' daughters.CONCLUSIONS: Paternal occupation and legitimacy status were strong predictors of offspring longevity in this one-century historical cohort born during World War One. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Cohort Studies#Female#Humans#Illegitimacy#Life Expectancy#Longevity#Male#Middle Aged#Multivariate Analysis#Paris#Sex Factors#Social Class#Survival Analysis"
b'Promoter methylation is the most significant mechanism to regulate O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) expression. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the MGMT promoter region may also play a role. The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical significance of SNPs in the MGMT promoter region of glioblastoma. Genomic DNAs from 118 glioblastomas were collected for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification. Sanger sequencing was used to sequence the MGMT promoter region to detect SNPs. The results were correlated with MGMT status and patient survival. Rs1625649 was the only polymorphic SNP located at the MGMT promoter region in 37.5% of glioblastomas. Homozygous rs1625649 (AA genotype) was correlated with a higher MGMT methylation level and a lower protein expression, but the result was not statistically significant. In patients with MGMT methylated glioblastoma, cases with homozygous rs1625649 (AA genotype) were significantly associated with a lack of MGMT protein expression and a better progression-free survival (PFS) than the cases with wild type rs1625649 (CC genotype) or heterozygous rs1625649 (CA genotype). The survival impact was significant in multivariate analyses. In conclusion, the MGMT promoter homozygous rs1625649 (AA genotype) was found to correlate with a better PFS in patients with MGMT methylated glioblastoma. labels: #DNA Methylation#DNA Modification Methylases#DNA Repair Enzymes#Female#Glioblastoma#Humans#Male#Middle Aged#Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide#Prognosis#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Survival Analysis#Tumor Suppressor Proteins'
b"Drosophila atonal (ato) is required for the specification of founding R8 photoreceptors during retinal development. ato is regulated via dual eye-specific enhancers; ato-3' is subject to initial induction whereas 5'-ato facilitates Notch-mediated autoregulation. Notch is further utilized to induce bHLH repressors of the E(spl) locus to restrict Ato from its initial broad expression to individual cells. Although Notch operates in two, distinct phases, it has remained unclear how the two phases maintain independence from one another. The difference in these two phases has attributed to the hypothesized delayed expression of E(spl). However, immunofluorescence data indicate that E(spl) are expressed during early Ato patterning, suggesting a more sophisticated underlying mechanism. To probe this mechanism, we provide evidence that although E(spl) exert no influence on ato-3', E(spl) repress 5'-ato and deletion of the E(spl) locus elicits precocious 5'-ato activity. Thus, E(spl) imposes a delay to the timing in which Ato initiates autoregulation. We next sought to understand this finding in the context of E(spl)D, which encodes a dysregulated variant of E(spl)M8 that perturbs R8 patterning, though, as previously reported, only in conjunction with the mutant receptor Nspl. We established a genetic interaction between E(spl)D and roughened eye (roe), a known modulator of Notch signaling in retinogenesis. This link further suggests a dosage-dependence between E(spl) and the proneural activators Ato and Sens, as indicated via interaction assays in which E(spl)D renders aberrant R8 patterning in conjunction with reduced proneural dosage. In total, the biphasicity of Notch signaling relies, to some degree, on the post-translational regulation of individual E(spl) members and, importantly, that post-translational regulation is likely necessary to modulate the level of E(spl) activity throughout the progression of Ato expression. labels: #Animals#Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors#Drosophila Proteins#Drosophila melanogaster#Enhancer Elements, Genetic#Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental#Genetic Loci#Mutation#Nerve Tissue Proteins#Phenotype#Photoreceptor Cells, Invertebrate#Protein Transport"
b"Though piperazine derivative BK10007S was known to induce apoptosis in pancreatic cancer xenograft model as a T-type CaV3.1 a1G isoform calcium channel blocker, its underlying antitumor mechanism still remains unclear so far. Thus, in the present study, the antitumor mechanism of BK10007S was elucidated in hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCCs). Herein, BK10007S showed significant cytotoxicity by 3-[4,5-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetra-zolium bromide (MTT) assay and anti-proliferative effects by colony formation assay in HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells. Also, apoptotic bodies and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) dUTP Nick End Labeling (TUNEL) positive cells were observed in BK10007S treated HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells by 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylinodole (DAPI) staining and TUNEL assay, respectively. Consistently, BK10007S increased sub G1 population in HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells by cell cycle analysis. Furthermore, Western blotting revealed that BK10007S activated the caspase cascades (caspase 8, 9 and 3), cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), and downregulated the expression of cyclin D1, survivin and for CUG-binding protein 1 (CUGBP1 or CELF1) in HepG2 and SK-Hep1 cells. Conversely, overexpression of CUGBP1 reduced cleavages of PARP and caspase 3, cytotoxicity and subG1 population in BK10007S treated HepG2 cells. Overall, these findings provide scientific evidences that BK10007S induces apoptosis via inhibition of CUGBP1 and activation of caspases in hepatocellular carcinomas as a potent anticancer candidate. labels: #Antineoplastic Agents#Apoptosis#CELF1 Protein#Carcinoma, Hepatocellular#Caspases#Cell Proliferation#Enzyme Activation#Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic#Hep G2 Cells#Humans#Liver Neoplasms#Piperazines#Quinazolines"
b'Integrative clustering is used to identify groups of samples by jointly analysing multiple datasets describing the same set of biological samples, such as gene expression, copy number, methylation etc. Most existing algorithms for integrative clustering assume that there is a shared consistent set of clusters across all datasets, and most of the data samples follow this structure. However in practice, the structure across heterogeneous datasets can be more varied, with clusters being joined in some datasets and separated in others. In this paper, we present a probabilistic clustering method to identify groups across datasets that do not share the same cluster structure. The proposed algorithm, Clusternomics, identifies groups of samples that share their global behaviour across heterogeneous datasets. The algorithm models clusters on the level of individual datasets, while also extracting global structure that arises from the local cluster assignments. Clusters on both the local and the global level are modelled using a hierarchical Dirichlet mixture model to identify structure on both levels. We evaluated the model both on simulated and on real-world datasets. The simulated data exemplifies datasets with varying degrees of common structure. In such a setting Clusternomics outperforms existing algorithms for integrative and consensus clustering. In a real-world application, we used the algorithm for cancer subtyping, identifying subtypes of cancer from heterogeneous datasets. We applied the algorithm to TCGA breast cancer dataset, integrating gene expression, miRNA expression, DNA methylation and proteomics. The algorithm extracted clinically meaningful clusters with significantly different survival probabilities. We also evaluated the algorithm on lung and kidney cancer TCGA datasets with high dimensionality, again showing clinically significant results and scalability of the algorithm. labels: #Algorithms#Breast Neoplasms#Cluster Analysis#Computational Biology#Gene Expression Profiling#Humans#Survival Analysis'
b'The aim of the study was to investigate the perception of the family functioning in parents of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) with normal-range intelligence and the relationships between family functioning, parenting stress and quality of life. Dyads of parents of children with ASD without intellectual disability and parents of typically developing children (controls) completed a set of self-report questionnaires. Parents of children with ASD reported lower functioning of the family as a whole and their own functioning as family members; they exhibited higher levels of parenting stress and lower quality of life. Mothers of children with ASD experienced more stress in personal domain than fathers. Relationships between family functioning, parenting stress and quality of life have been established. There were also moderate to strong correlations in mother-father dyads between their assessments of family functioning, parenting stress and QoL in social relationships and environmental domains. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Asperger Syndrome#Autistic Disorder#Case-Control Studies#Child#Fathers#Female#Humans#Male#Mothers#Poland#Quality of Life#Regression Analysis#Self Report#Stress, Psychological'
b"Gender inequity in science and academia, especially in senior positions, is a recognised problem. The reasons are poorly understood, but include the persistence of historical gender ratios, discrimination and other factors, including gender-based behavioural differences. We studied participation in a professional context by observing question-asking behaviour at a large international conference with a clear equality code of conduct that prohibited any form of discrimination. Accounting for audience gender ratio, male attendees asked 1.8 questions for each question asked by a female attendee. Amongst only younger researchers, male attendees also asked 1.8 questions per female question, suggesting the pattern cannot be attributed to the temporary problem of demographic inertia. We link our findings to the 'chilly' climate for women in STEM, including wider experiences of discrimination likely encountered by women throughout their education and careers. We call for a broader and coordinated approach to understanding and addressing the barriers to women and other under-represented groups. We encourage the scientific community to recognise the context in which these gender differences occur, and evaluate and develop methods to support full participation from all attendees. labels: #Age Factors#Communication#Congresses as Topic#Female#Humans#Male#Research Personnel#Sex Characteristics#Sexism"
b'Myostatin is a negative regulator of myogenesis and has been suggested to be an important factor in the development of muscle wasting during viral infection. The objective of this study was to characterize the main regulatory element of the grouper myostatin promoter and to study changes in promoter activity due to viral stimulation. In vitro and in vivo experiments indicated that the E-box E6 is a positive cis-and trans-regulation motif, and an essential binding site for MyoD. In contrast, the E-box E5 is a dominant negative cis-regulatory. The characteristics of grouper myostatin promoter are similar in regulation of muscle growth to that of other species, but mainly through specific regulatory elements. According to these results, we conducted a study to investigate the effect of viral infection on myostatin promoter activity and its regulation. The nervous necrosis virus (NNV) treatment significantly induced myostatin promoter activity. The present study is the first report describing that specific myostatin motifs regulate promoter activity and response to viral infection. labels: #Animals#Base Sequence#Bass#E-Box Elements#Fish Proteins#Myostatin#Promoter Regions, Genetic'
b'OBJECTIVE: Preterm birth is associated with altered angiogenesis and with increased risk of cardiovascular dysfunction and hypertension at adulthood. We previously demonstrated that in preterm newborns circulating cord blood endothelial progenitor cells (ECFC), responsible for angio/vasculogenesis, are reduced in number and display altered angiogenic properties. Altered angiogenic function was associated with a decreased expression of pro-angiogenic genes, among which the AMOT gene which is a strong positive regulator of angiogenesis. Such dysregulation may be related to epigenetic factors. In this study we analyse the methylation profiling of the AMOT gene during development, through a comparative analysis of the cord blood ECFC of preterm newborns and their term counterpart.METHODS: We used both cloning-sequencing and pyrosequencing experiments to perform a comparative analysis of the DNA methylation profile of the promoter CpG island of AMOT gene in the cord blood ECFC of 16 preterm newborns (28-35 weeks gestational age-GA) and 15 term newborns (>37 weeks GA).RESULTS: Twenty nine clones (obtained from 2 term newborns) and forty clones (obtained from 3 preterm newborns) were sequenced. The AMOT gene methylation rate was significantly higher in preterm compared to term newborns (4.5% versus 2.5% respectively: \xcf\x872 = 3.84; P = 1.8 10-02). Bisulfite pyrosequencing identified four CpG dinucleotides with significantly higher methylation levels in preterm newborns. This CpG-targeted methylation significantly decreased with increasing gestational age.CONCLUSIONS: These findings highlight importance of pro-angiogenic AMOT gene methylation in ECFC, suggesting that epigenetic mechanisms may control the regulation of angiogenesis during development. Therefore they pave the way to specific short term and long term complications of preterm birth by altered angiogenesis. labels: #Adult#CpG Islands#DNA Methylation#Endothelial Progenitor Cells#Epigenesis, Genetic#Female#Fetal Blood#Humans#Infant, Premature#Infant, Small for Gestational Age#Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins#Male#Maternal Age#Membrane Proteins#Promoter Regions, Genetic#Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction#Sequence Analysis, DNA'
b"Moschids are enigmatic pecoran ruminants whose phylogeny is still not fully understood. So far we know only little of the family's early evolutionary history and the origin of the modern genus, Moschus. Here we present a comprehensive description of cranial material, including the ear region and the dentition, of fossil moschid material from the Middle Miocene locality Steinheim am Albuch (13.5 Ma; Germany). This study provides the first exhaustive dataset for the cranial osteology of Micromeryx flourensianus, the most likely oldest true moschid. It furthermore reveals the presence of a second, so far undescribed moschid species, we here name Micromeryx? eiselei, in the abundant material from the locality. The two taxa can be clearly distinguished by characters of the skull, the ear region, the dentition, as well as by size. This evidences the sympatric occurrence of two moschid species in the locality Steinheim am Albuch. labels: #Animals#Biological Evolution#Ear#Female#Fossils#Germany#Imaging, Three-Dimensional#Male#Models, Anatomic#Phylogeny#Ruminants#Skull#Tooth"
b'The aim of this study was to carry out genetic screening of the MEN1, CDKN1B and AIP genes, both by direct sequencing of the coding region and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay in the largest monocentric series of Italian patients with Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 syndrome (MEN1) and Familial Isolated Hyperparathyroidism (FIHP). The study also aimed to describe and compare the clinical features of MEN1 mutation-negative and mutation-positive patients during long-term follow-up and to correlate the specific types and locations of MEN1 gene mutations with onset and aggressiveness of the main MEN1 manifestations. A total of 69 index cases followed at the Endocrinology Unit in Pisa over a period of 19 years, including 54 MEN1 and 15 FIHP kindreds were enrolled. Seven index cases with MEN1 but MEN1 mutation-negative, followed at the University Hospital of Cagliari, were also investigated. FIHP were also tested for CDC73 and CaSR gene alterations. MEN1 germline mutations were identified in 90% of the index cases of familial MEN1 (F-MEN1) and in 23% of sporadic cases (S-MEN1). MEN1 and CDC73 mutations accounted for 13% and 7% of the FIHP cohort, respectively. A CDKN1B mutation was identified in one F-MEN1. Two AIP variants of unknown significance were detected in two MEN1-negative S-MEN1. A MEN1 positive test best predicted the onset of all three major MEN1-related manifestations or parathyroid and gastro-entero-pancreatic tumors during follow-up. A comparison between the clinical characteristics of F and S-MEN1 showed a higher prevalence of a single parathyroid disease and pituitary tumors in sporadic compared to familial MEN1 patients. No significant correlation was found between the type and location of MEN1 mutations and the clinical phenotype. Since all MEN1 mutation-positive sporadic patients had a phenotype resembling that of familial MEN1 (multiglandular parathyroid hyperplasia, a prevalence of gastro-entero-pancreatic tumors and/or the classic triad) we might hypothesize that a subset of the sporadic MEN1 mutation-negative patients could represent an incidental coexistence of sporadic primary hyperparathyroidism and pituitary tumors or a MEN1 phenocopy, in our cohort, as in most cases described in the literature. labels: #Adolescent#Adult#Aged#Female#Gene Deletion#Genotype#Humans#Hyperparathyroidism, Primary#Male#Middle Aged#Phenotype#Young Adult'
b'Disinfectants and biocidal products have been widely used to combat Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections in homes and healthcare environments. Although disruption of cytoplasmic membrane integrity has been documented as the main bactericidal effect of biocides, little is known about the biochemical alterations induced by these chemical agents. In this study, we used Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy and chemometric tools as an alternative non-destructive technique to determine the bactericidal effects of commonly used disinfectants against MRSA USA-300. FTIR spectroscopy permits a detailed characterization of bacterial reactivity, allowing an understanding of the fundamental mechanism of action involved in the interaction between bacteria and disinfectants. The disinfectants studied were ethanol 70% (N = 5), isopropanol (N = 5), sodium hypochlorite (N = 5), triclosan (N = 5) and triclocarban (N = 5). Results showed less than 5% colony forming units growth of MRSA treated with triclocarban and no growth in the other groups. Nearly 70,000 mid-infrared spectra from the five treatments and the two control (untreated; N = 4) groups of MRSA (bacteria grown in TSB and incubated at 37\xc2\xb0C (Control I) / at ambient temperature (Control II), for 24h) were pre-processed and analyzed using principal component analysis followed by linear discriminant analysis (PCA-LDA). Clustering of strains of MRSA belonging to five treatments and the discrimination between each treatment and two control groups in MRSA (untreated) were investigated. PCA-LDA discriminatory frequencies suggested that ethanol-treated spectra are the most similar to isopropanol-treated spectra biochemically. Also reported here are the biochemical alterations in the structure of proteins, lipid membranes, and phosphate groups of MRSA produced by sodium hypochlorite, triclosan, and triclocarban treatments. These findings provide mechanistic information involved in the interaction between MRSA strains and hygiene products; thereby demonstrating the potential of spectroscopic analysis as an objective, robust, and label-free tool for evaluating the macromolecular changes involved in disinfectant-treated MRSA. labels: #Alcohols#Anti-Bacterial Agents#Disinfectants#Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus'
b'BACKGROUND: Morphometric measurements of systemic atherosclerosis and direct quantification of visceral fat are only possible using materials from autopsy studies. However, the few autopsy studies that have investigated the association of visceral fat with atherosclerosis had small sample sizes and focused on coronary arteries of young or middle-aged White subjects. We aimed to investigate the association of pericardial fat (PF) and abdominal visceral fat (AVF) with atherosclerosis in the aorta, coronary, carotid, and cerebral arteries in a large autopsy study.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated deceased subjects aged 30 years or above. We dissected and weighted the PF and the AVF and evaluated the atherosclerotic burden in the aorta, as well as the carotid, coronary, and cerebral arteries using morphometric measurements. We also investigated the interaction of PF and AVF with age regarding the atherosclerotic burden.RESULTS: The mean age of the 240 included subjects was 64.8\xc2\xb115.3 years, and 63% was male. Greater PF was associated with a higher degree of aortic atherosclerosis after adjusting for confounding variables (coefficient = 4.39, 95% CI = 0.83; 7.94, p = 0.02). Greater AVF was associated with a higher coronary stenosis index (coefficient = 1.49, 95% CI = 0.15; 2.83, p = 0.03) and a greater number of coronary plaques (coefficient = 0.71, 95% CI = 0.24; 1.19, p = 0.003). We did not find an association of PF or AVF with carotid or cerebral atherosclerotic burden. We found a significant interaction of AVF (coefficient = -0.08; 95% CI = -0.14; -0.02, p = 0.009) and PF (coefficient = -0.87, 95% CI = -1.70; -0.04, p = 0.04) with age regarding carotid artery atherosclerotic burden.CONCLUSIONS: Greater AVF was associated with greater atherosclerotic burden and extent in coronary arteries, while greater PF correlated with a higher degree of atherosclerosis in the aorta. labels: #Adult#Aged#Aged, 80 and over#Arteries#Atherosclerosis#Autopsy#Female#Humans#Intra-Abdominal Fat#Male#Middle Aged'
b'An extensive proteostatic network comprised of molecular chaperones and protein clearance mechanisms functions collectively to preserve the integrity and resiliency of the proteome. The efficacy of this network deteriorates during aging, coinciding with many clinical manifestations, including protein aggregation diseases of the nervous system. A decline in proteostasis can be delayed through the activation of cytoprotective transcriptional responses, which are sensitive to environmental stress and internal metabolic and physiological cues. The homeodomain-interacting protein kinase (hipk) family members are conserved transcriptional co-factors that have been implicated in both genotoxic and metabolic stress responses from yeast to mammals. We demonstrate that constitutive expression of the sole Caenorhabditis elegans Hipk homolog, hpk-1, is sufficient to delay aging, preserve proteostasis, and promote stress resistance, while loss of hpk-1 is deleterious to these phenotypes. We show that HPK-1 preserves proteostasis and extends longevity through distinct but complementary genetic pathways defined by the heat shock transcription factor (HSF-1), and the target of rapamycin complex 1 (TORC1). We demonstrate that HPK-1 antagonizes sumoylation of HSF-1, a post-translational modification associated with reduced transcriptional activity in mammals. We show that inhibition of sumoylation by RNAi enhances HSF-1-dependent transcriptional induction of chaperones in response to heat shock. We find that hpk-1 is required for HSF-1 to induce molecular chaperones after thermal stress and enhances hormetic extension of longevity. We also show that HPK-1 is required in conjunction with HSF-1 for maintenance of proteostasis in the absence of thermal stress, protecting against the formation of polyglutamine (Q35::YFP) protein aggregates and associated locomotory toxicity. These functions of HPK-1/HSF-1 undergo rapid down-regulation once animals reach reproductive maturity. We show that HPK-1 fortifies proteostasis and extends longevity by an additional independent mechanism: induction of autophagy. HPK-1 is necessary for induction of autophagosome formation and autophagy gene expression in response to dietary restriction (DR) or inactivation of TORC1. The autophagy-stimulating transcription factors pha-4/FoxA and mxl-2/Mlx, but not hlh-30/TFEB or the nuclear hormone receptor nhr-62, are necessary for extended longevity resulting from HPK-1 overexpression. HPK-1 expression is itself induced by transcriptional mechanisms after nutritional stress, and post-transcriptional mechanisms in response to thermal stress. Collectively our results position HPK-1 at a central regulatory node upstream of the greater proteostatic network, acting at the transcriptional level by promoting protein folding via chaperone expression, and protein turnover via expression of autophagy genes. HPK-1 therefore provides a promising intervention point for pharmacological agents targeting the protein homeostasis system as a means of preserving robust longevity. labels: #Aging#Animals#Autophagy#Caenorhabditis elegans#Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins#Gene Expression Regulation#Homeostasis#Longevity#Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Complex 1#Molecular Chaperones#Multiprotein Complexes#Protein Processing, Post-Translational#Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases#Signal Transduction#Stress, Physiological#TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases#Transcription Factors'
b'Dystroglycan (DG) is a highly glycosylated protein complex that links the cytoskeleton with the extracellular matrix, mediating fundamental physiological functions such as mechanical stability of tissues, matrix organization and cell polarity. A crucial role in the glycosylation of the DG \xce\xb1 subunit is played by its own N-terminal region that is required by the glycosyltransferase LARGE. Alteration in this O-glycosylation deeply impairs the high affinity binding to other extracellular matrix proteins such as laminins. Recently, three missense mutations in the gene encoding DG, mapped in the \xce\xb1-DG N-terminal region, were found to be responsible for hypoglycosylated states, causing congenital diseases of different severity referred as primary dystroglycanopaties.To gain insight on the molecular basis of these disorders, we investigated the crystallographic and solution structures of these pathological point mutants, namely V72I, D109N and T190M. Small Angle X-ray Scattering analysis reveals that these mutations affect the structures in solution, altering the distribution between compact and more elongated conformations. These results, supported by biochemical and biophysical assays, point to an altered structural flexibility of the mutant \xce\xb1-DG N-terminal region that may have repercussions on its interaction with LARGE and/or other DG-modifying enzymes, eventually reducing their catalytic efficiency. labels: #Animals#Crystallography#Dystroglycans#Enzyme Stability#Fluorometry#Mice#Models, Molecular#Mutagenesis, Site-Directed#Mutation, Missense#Protein Denaturation#Scattering, Small Angle#Solutions#X-Ray Diffraction'
b"The multiple insecurities, anatomical, physiological and psychological changes arising from the gestational period can generate an overload of stress in the mother and cause disturbances in the offspring, affecting it throughout its development. The existing analysis linking prenatal stress and offspring's anxiety have divergent results, being limited as to gestational week, type of stressor and age of progeny's assessment. Social separation has been described as a stressor that causes increase in anxiety. Thus, the present study evaluated the effects of social separation applied in one of the three gestational weeks of rat dams on the manifestation of the defensive behaviors related to generalized anxiety disorder and panic in the Elevated T Maze of the male progeny in three stages of development (1, 3 or 6 months of life). It was found, in the offspring of grouped (control) dams, increased behaviors associated with generalized anxiety disorder and a reduction of panic-like behaviors throughout development. For animals whose dams were socially separated during pregnancy, the most critical period of exposure was the 2nd gestational week, which affected the acquisition of aversive memory, demonstrated by the impairment on learning of avoidances of the offspring in all ages evaluated. Stressor exposure in this week also increased the avoidances, related to generalized anxiety of progeny in the 1st month and decreased escapes, related to panic in the 3rd month of life and, at the age of 6 months old, an inverse situation, with the reduction of the defensive behaviors associated to generalized anxiety disorder. The results show that, when assessing effects of prenatal stress on the manifestation of anxiety, not only the period of exposure is important, but also the age of offspring assessed. labels: #Aging#Animals#Anxiety#Avoidance Learning#Female#Male#Memory#Models, Animal#Panic#Pregnancy#Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects#Rats, Wistar#Social Behavior#Social Isolation#Stress, Psychological"
b'BACKGROUND: Cooling the lower abdomen is one of the Japanese traditional non-pharmacological prophylactic managements for postpartum hemorrhage. This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of cooling the lower abdomen in reducing postpartum blood loss compared with no intervention. In both cases, women delivered vaginally without prophylactic oxytocin in the third stage of labor.METHODS: In this randomized controlled trial, the lower abdomen was cooled by placement of an 8.6\xc2\xb0C icepack during the first 2 h after placental delivery. The primary outcome was measured as the total blood loss within 2 h after delivery. This study had 80% power at the two tails of 5% significance level to detect the mean difference (MD, 70 g) in total blood loss within 2 h after delivery between the two groups. The sample size was calculated as 144 women (72 women per group).RESULTS: Between January and May 2016, 160 women were randomly assigned to the intervention group (cooling the lower abdomen, n = 81) or the control group (n = 79). Baseline characteristics were similar between groups, with the exception of mean blood loss during the third stage of labor. The primary outcome was not reduced by cooling, compared with no intervention (mean blood loss, 513.3 vs. 478.1 g, respectively; MD = 35.2 g; 95% confidence interval = -65.3-135.7). No adverse events occurred; however, seven (8.7%) women in the intervention group declined to continue cooling the lower abdomen because of discomfort.CONCLUSION: Compared with the control group, cooling the lower abdomen did not reduce the total amount of blood loss up to 2 h after delivery.TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN-CTR UMIN000019834. labels: #Abdomen#Adult#Female#Humans#Postpartum Hemorrhage#Temperature'
